















 
Attachment A to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 1 of 1 
Attachment A 
State Transit Funding Award Information 
 
 
State Transit Funding Award Information 
Subrecipient Name:  
City of Cheyenne 
Subrecipient Unique Entity Identifier (UEI): 
KURKMKZUFMY2 
Period of Performance Start and End 
Date: October 1, 2026, through  
December 31, 2027  
Budget Period Start and End Date: 
October 1, 2026, through September 30, 2027  
 
Total Project Award Including Local 
Share: $302,862.00 State Award this Agreement: $302,862.00 
Awarding Name:  
Wyoming Rural Public Transit 
Awarding Agency: Wyoming Department of 
Transportation (WYDOT)  
Subrecipient Contact: Erin Johnson 
Phone: 307-637-6384 
Email: ejohnson@cheyennecity.org 
WYDOT Program Manager: Brandi Miller 
Telephone: 307-777-4438 
Email: brandi.miller1@wyo.gov 
Subrecipient County: Laramie 
WYDOT Contact for Confirmation of 
Funds:  
Telephone: 307-777-4434 
Email: dotrevenue@wyo.gov 
Project Name: Rural Public Transit 
Program Indirect Cost Rate (ICAP): Not Applicable 
Project No.: FT27141 Agreement No.: RPT-27-141 
 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 1 of 24 
Attachment B 
Federally Required Clauses 
 
1. Access to Records and Reports. 
 
A. Record Retention. The Subrecipient will retain, and will require its subcontractors 
of all tiers to retain, complete, and keep readily accessible records related in whole 
or in part to the Agreement, including, but not limited to, data, documents, reports, 
statistics, leases, subcontracts, arrangements, other third party contracts of any type, 
and supporting materials related to those records.  
  
B. Retention Period. The Subrecipient agrees to comply with the record retention 
requirements in accordance with 2 CFR § 200.334. The Subrecipient shall maintain 
all books, records, accounts, and reports required under this Agreement for a period 
of not less than three (3) ye ars after the date of termination or expiration of this 
Agreement, except in the event of litigation or settlement of claims arising from the 
performance of this Agreement, in which case records shall be maintained until the 
disposition of all such litigation, appeals, claims, or exceptions related thereto.  
  
C. Access to Records.  The Subrecipient agrees to provide sufficient access to the 
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) and its contractors to inspect and audit 
records and information related to the performance of this Agreement in accordance 
with 2 CFR § 200.337.  
  
D. Access to the Sites of Performance.  The Subrecipient agrees to permit the FTA 
and its contractors access to the sites of performance under this Agreement in 
accordance with 2 CFR § 200.337.  
 
2. Air Pollution and Fuel Economy. 
 
Each third party contract to acquire rolling stock must include provisions to ensure 
compliance with applicable Federal air pollution control and fuel economy regulations, 
such as Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations, “Control of Air Pollution  
from Mobile Sources,” 40 CFR Part 85; EPA regulations, “Control of Air Pollution from 
New and In-Use Motor Vehicles and New and In- Use Motor Vehicle Engines,” 40 CFR 
Part 86; and EPA regulations, “Fuel Economy and Greenhouse Gas Exhaust Emissions of 
Motor Vehicles,” 40 CFR Part 600. 
 
3. Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). 
 
The Subrecipient agrees to comply with all applicable requirements of Section 504 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. § 794, which prohibits discrimination 
on the basis of handicaps, with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (AD A), as 
amended, 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., which requires that accessible facilities and services 
be made available to persons with disabilities, including any subsequent amendments to 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 2 of 24 
that Act, and with the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended, 42 U.S.C. §§ 4151 
et seq., which requires that buildings and public accommodations be accessible to persons 
with disabilities, including any subsequent amendments to that Act. In addition, the 
Subrecipient agrees to comply with any and all applicable requirements issued by the FTA, 
United States Department of Transportation (USDOT), United States Department of 
Justice (DOJ), United States General Services Administration (U.S. GSA), United States 
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), United States Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC), any subsequent amendments thereto, and any other 
nondiscrimination statute(s) that may apply to the Project.  
 
4. Buy America Requirements.  
 
The Subrecipient agrees to comply with 49 U.S.C. 5323(j) and 49 CFR Part 661 and 2 CFR 
§200.322 Domestic preferences for procurements, which provide that Federal funds may 
not be obligated unless all steel, iron, and manufactured products used in FTA funde d 
projects are produced in the United States, unless a waiver has been granted by FTA or the 
product is subject to a general waiver. General waivers are listed in 49 CFR § 661.7. 
 
Construction materials used in the Project are subject to the domestic preference 
requirement of the Build America, Buy America Act, Pub. L. 117- 58, div. G, tit. IX, §§ 
70911 – 70927 (2021), as implemented by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget, 
USDOT, and FTA. The Subrecipient acknowledges that this Agreement is neither a waiver 
of § 70914(a) nor a finding under § 70914(b). 
 
Separate requirements for rolling stock are set out at 49 U.S.C. 5323(j)(2)(C), 49 U.S.C. § 
5323(u), and 49 CFR § 661.11.  
 
The bidder or offeror must submit to the Subrecipient the appropriate Buy America 
certification. Bids or offers that are not accompanied by a completed Buy America 
certification will be rejected as nonresponsive. For more information, please see the FTA’s 
Buy America webpage at: https://www.transit.dot.gov/buyamerica. 
 
5. Restrictions on Lobbying. 
 
A. Conditions on use of funds.  
 
(i) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal 
contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement to pay any person for 
influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, 
a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee 
of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered 
Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any 
Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any 
cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 3 of 24 
amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or 
cooperative agreement. 
 
(ii) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, 
grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a 
certification that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment 
prohibited by paragraph (i) of this section.  
 
(iii) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment 
providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with 
that agency a disclosure form, whether that person has made or has agreed 
to make any payment to influence or att empt to influence an officer or 
employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of 
Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that 
loan insurance or guarantee. 
 
B. Certification and disclosure. 
 
(i) Each bidder shall file a certification and a disclosure form, if required, with 
each submission that initiates agency consideration of such bidder for:  
 
(a) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement 
exceeding one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00); or  
 
(b) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the 
United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding one hundred 
fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00).  
 
(ii) Each person shall file a certification and a disclosure form, if required, upon 
receipt by such person of:  
 
(a) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding one 
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00); or  
 
(b) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to 
insure or guarantee a loan exceeding one hundred fifty thousand 
dollars ($150,000.00). 
 
Unless such person previously filed a certification and a disclosure form, if 
required, under paragraph (i) of this section.  
 
(iii) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter 
in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially 
affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form 
previously filed by such person under paragraphs (i) or (ii) of this section. 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 4 of 24 
An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported 
includes:  
 
(a) A cumulative increase of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) 
or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or 
attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or  
 
(b) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting 
to influence a covered Federal action; or  
 
(c) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to 
influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.  
 
(iv) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraphs 
(i) or (ii) of this section:  
 
(a) A subcontract exceeding one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000.00) at any tier under a Federal contract;  
 
(b) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding one hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) at any tier under a Federal grant;  
 
(c) A contract or subcontract exceeding one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000.00) at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding one 
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00); or  
 
(d) A contract or subcontract exceeding one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000.00) at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement,  
 
Shall file a certification and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier 
above.  
 
(v) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to 
tier until received by the person referred to in paragraphs (i) or (ii) of this 
section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.  
 
(vi) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (iv) of this 
section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all 
receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous 
representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and 
shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is 
forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a 
failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respect ively. If a 
person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 5 of 24 
may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 
1352, Title 31, U.S. Code. 
 
(vii) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but 
not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or 
commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, 
and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and 
commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989, effective date of 
these provisions, but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms 
shall not be required at time of award or commitment but shall be filed 
within thirty (30) days.  
 
(viii) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if 
that activity is allowable under either Subpart B or C of 2 CFR Part 200.  
 
6. Charter Service.  
 
A. The Subrecipient agrees to comply with 49 U.S.C. §§ 5323(d) and 5323(r), and 49 
CFR Part 604, which provides that recipients and subrecipients of FTA assistance 
are prohibited from providing charter service using federally funded equipment or 
facilities if  there is at least one (1) private charter operator willing and able to 
provide the service, except as permitted under:  
 
(i) Federal transit laws, specifically 49 U.S.C. § 5323(d);  
 
(ii) FTA regulations, “Charter Service,” 49 CFR Part 604;  
 
(iii) Any other federal Charter Service regulations; or  
 
(iv) Federal guidance, except as FTA determines otherwise in writing.  
  
B. The Subrecipient agrees that if it engages in a pattern of violations of FTA’s Charter 
Service regulations, FTA may require corrective measures or impose remedies on 
it. These corrective measures and remedies may include:  
 
(i) Barring it, or any subcontractor operating public transportation under its 
award that has provided prohibited charter service, from receiving federal 
assistance from FTA;  
 
(ii) Withholding an amount of federal assistance as provided by Appendix D to 
Part 604 of FTA’s Charter Service regulations; or  
 
(iii) Any other appropriate remedy that may apply.  
  
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 6 of 24 
C. The Subrecipient should also include the substance of this clause in each 
subcontract that may involve operating public transit services.  
 
7. Civil Rights Laws and Regulations.  
 
A. Federal Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Requirements. These include, 
but are not limited to:  
  
(i) Nondiscrimination in Federal Public Transportation Programs. 49 U.S.C. § 
5332, covering projects, programs, and activities financed under 49 U.S.C. 
Chapter 53, prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, 
national origin, sex (including sexual orientation and gender identity), 
disability, or age, and prohibits discrimination in employment or business 
opportunity.  
  
(ii) Prohibition against Employment Discrimination . Title VII of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964, as amended, and 42 U.S.C. § 2000e, prohibit 
discrimination in employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or 
national origin.  
 
B. Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex. Title IX of the Education Amendments 
of 1972, as amended, 20 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq . and implementing Federal 
regulations, “Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or 
Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance,” 49 CFR Part 25 prohibit 
discrimination on the basis of sex.  
  
C. Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age. The “Age Discrimination Act of 1975,” 
as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 6101 et seq ., and Department of Health and Human 
Services implementing regulations, “Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age in 
Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance,” 45 CFR Part 90, 
prohibit discrimination by participants in federally assisted  programs against 
individuals on the basis of age. The Age Discrimination in Employment Act 
(ADEA), 29 U.S.C. § 621 et seq ., and EEOC implementing regulations, “Age 
Discrimination in Employment Act,” 29 CFR Part 1625, also prohibit employment 
discrimination against individuals age 40 and over on the basis of age.  
  
D. Federal Protections for Individuals with Disabilities . The ADA, 42 U.S.C. § 
12101 et seq ., prohibits discrimination against qualified individuals with 
disabilities in programs, activities, and services, and imposes specific requirements 
on public and private entities. Third party contractors must comply with their 
responsibilities under Titles I, II, III, IV, and V of the ADA in employment, public 
services, public accommodations, telecommunications, and other provisions, many 
of which are subject to regulations issued by other Federal agencies.  
 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 7 of 24 
8. Civil Rights and Equal Opportunity.  
 
WYDOT is an Equal Opportunity Employer. As such, WYDOT agrees to comply with all 
applicable Federal civil rights laws and implementing regulations. Apart from inconsistent 
requirements imposed by Federal laws or regulations, WYDOT agrees to comply with the 
requirements of 49 U.S.C. § 5323(h) (3) by not using any Federal assistance awarded by 
FTA to support procurements using exclusionary or discriminatory specifications. Under 
this Agreement, the Subrecipient shall at all times comply with the following requirements 
and shall include these requirements in each subcontract entered into as part thereof.  
 
A. Nondiscrimination. In accordance with Federal transit law at 49 U.S.C. § 5332, 
the Subrecipient agrees that it will not discriminate against any employee or 
applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, 
disability, or age. In addition, the Subrecipient agrees to comply with applicable 
Federal implementing regulations and other implementing requirements FTA may 
issue.  
  
B. Race, Color, Religion, National Origin, Sex. In accordance with Title VII of the 
Civil Rights Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq ., and Federal transit laws 
at 49 U.S.C. § 5332, the Subrecipient agrees to comply with all applicable equal 
employment opportunity requirements of U.S. DOL regulations, “Office of Federal 
Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Departm ent of 
Labor,” 41 CFR Chapter 60, and the Executive Order No. 11246, “Equal 
Employment Opportunity in Federal Employment,” September 24 , 1965, 42 U.S.C. 
§ 2000e note, as amended by any later Executive Order that amends or supersedes 
it, referenced in 42 U.S.C. § 2000e note. The Subrecipient agrees to take affirmative 
action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during 
employment, without regard to their race, color, religion, national origin, or sex 
(including sexual orientation and gender identity). Such action shall include, but 
not be limited to, the following: employment, promotion, demotion or transfer , 
recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination; rates of pay or other 
forms of compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. In 
addition, the Subrecipient agrees to comply with any implementing requirements 
FTA may issue.  
 
C. Nondiscrimination, Merit-Based Opportunity, and Material Certification. In 
accordance with Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
§ 2000e et seq.), and Federal transit laws at 49 U.S.C. § 5332, the Subrecipient 
agrees to comply with all applicable statutory federal anti -discrimination laws. 
Pursuant to Executive Order 14173 (“Ending Illegal Discrimination and Restoring 
Merit-Based Opportunity”) and U.S. Department of Transportation Class Deviation 
No. 2025-01, all contractual requirements related to the revoked Executive Order 
11246 and associated affirmative action compliance programs under 41 CFR 
Chapter 60 are rescinded and inapplicable to this contract. 
 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 8 of 24 
The Subrecipient agrees that employment, procurement, and contracting practices 
under this Agreement shall be based strictly on individual merit, aptitude, and 
qualifications. The Subrecipient shall not consider or utilize preferences based on 
race, color,  religion, sex (including sexual orientation), or national origin. The 
Subrecipient certifies that it does not operate any programs promoting Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) that violate applicable Federal anti -discrimination 
laws. The Subrecipient acknowledges and agrees that full compliance with these 
statutory anti -discrimination provisions is a material condition of eligibility for 
payment under this federally assisted award. 
  
D. Age. In accordance with the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. §§ 
621-634, U.S. EEOC regulations, “Age Discrimination in Employment Act,” 29 
CFR Part 1625, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 6101 
et seq., U.S. Health and Human Services regulations, “Nondiscrimination on the 
Basis of Age in Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance,” 
45 CFR Part 90, and Federal transit law at 49 U.S.C. § 5332, the Subrecipient agrees 
to refrain from discrimination against present and prospective employees for reason 
of age. In addition, the Subrecipient agrees to comply with any implementing 
requirements FTA may issue.  
  
E. Disabilities. In accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as 
amended, 29 U.S.C. § 794, the ADA, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq ., the 
Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 4151 et seq ., and 
Federal transit law at 49 U.S.C. § 5332, the Subrecipient agrees that it will not 
discriminate against individuals on the basis of disability. In addition, the 
Subrecipient agrees to comply with any implementing requirements FTA may 
issue.  
  
F. Promoting Free Speech and Religious Liberty . The Subrecipient shall ensure 
that Federal funding is expended in full accordance with the U.S. Constitution, 
Federal Law, and statutory and public policy requirements: including, but not 
limited to, those protecting free speech, religious liberty, publi c welfare, the 
environment, and prohibiting discrimination.  
 
9. Clean Air Act and Federal Water Pollution Control Act. 
 
The Subrecipient agrees to comply with all applicable standards, orders, or regulations 
issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. § 7401- 7671q) and the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. § 1251- 1387). Violations must be reported 
to FTA and the Regional Office of the EPA. The following applies for contracts of amounts 
in excess of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00):  
 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 9 of 24 
A. Clean Air Act. The Subrecipient agrees to: 
  
(i) Comply with all applicable standards, orders, or regulations issued pursuant 
to the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 7401 et seq.  
  
(ii) Report each violation to WYDOT and understands and agrees that WYDOT 
will, in turn, report each violation as required to assure notification to the 
FTA, Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the appropriate EPA 
Regional Office.  
  
(iii) Include these requirements in each subcontract exceeding one hundred fifty 
thousand dollars ($150,000.00) financed in whole or in part with Federal 
assistance provided by the FTA. 
 
B. Federal Water Pollution Control Act. The Subrecipient agrees to: 
  
(i) Comply with all applicable standards, orders, or regulations issued pursuant 
to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 
et seq.  
  
(ii) Report each violation to WYDOT, and understands and agrees that 
WYDOT will, in turn, report each violation as required to assure 
notification to the FTA, Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the 
appropriate EPA Regional Office.  
  
(iii) Include these requirements in each subcontract exceeding one hundred fifty 
thousand dollars ($150,000.00) financed in whole or in part with Federal 
assistance provided by the FTA.  
 
10. Conformance with Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) National Architecture.  
 
ITS projects shall conform to the National ITS Architecture and standards pursuant to 23 
CFR Part 940. Conformance with the National ITS Architecture is interpreted to mean the 
use of the National ITS Architecture to develop a regional ITS architecture in support of 
integration and the subsequent adherence of all ITS projects to that regional ITS 
architecture. Development of the regional ITS architecture should be consistent with the 
transportation planning process for Statewide and Metropolitan Transportat ion Planning 
(49 CFR Parts 613 and 621). 
  
11. Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act. 
 
A. Applicability. This requirement applies to all FTA grant and cooperative agreement 
programs. 
 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 10 of 24 
B. Where applicable (see 40 U.S.C. § 3701), all contracts awarded by the Subrecipient 
entity in excess of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) that involve the 
employment of mechanics or laborers must include a provision for compliance with 
40 U.S.C. §§ 3702 and 3704, as supplemented by U.S. DOL regulations at 29 CFR 
Part 5. See 2 CFR Part 200, Appendix II.  
 
C. Under 40 U.S.C. § 3702, each contractor must be required to compute the wages of 
every mechanic and laborer on the basis of a standard work week of forty (40) 
hours. Work in excess of the standard work week is permissible provided that the 
worker is compensated at a rate of not less than one and one -half (1.5) times the 
basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in the work 
week.  
 
D. The requirements of 40 U.S.C. § 3704 are applicable to construction work and 
provide that no laborer or mechanic must be required to work in surroundings or 
under working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous, or dangerous. These 
requirements do not apply to the purchases of supplies, materials, articles ordinarily 
available on the open market, contracts for transportation, or transmission of 
intelligence.  
 
E. The regulation at 29 CFR § 5.5(b) provides the required contract clause concerning 
compliance with the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act:  
 
(i) Compliance with the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act. 
 
(a) Overtime requirements. No contractor or subcontractor contracting 
for any part of the contract work which may require or involve the 
employment of laborers or mechanics shall require or permit any 
such laborer or mechanic in any workweek in which he or she  is 
employed on such work to work in excess of forty (40) hours in such 
workweek unless such laborer or mechanic receives compensation 
at a rate not less than one and a one-half (1.5) times the basic rate of 
pay for all hours worked in excess of forty (40)  hours in such 
workweek. 
 
(b) Violation; liability for unpaid wages; liquidated damages. In the 
event of any violation of the clause set forth in paragraph (a) of this 
section, the contractor and any subcontractor responsible therefore 
shall be liable for the unpaid wages. In addition, such contractor and 
subcontractor shall be liable to the United States (in the case of work 
done under contract for the District of Columbia or territory, to such 
District or to such territory), for liquidated damages. Such liquidated 
damages shall be computed with respect to each individual laborer 
or mechanic, including watchmen and guards, employed in violation 
of the clause set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, in the sum of 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 11 of 24 
ten dollars ($10.00) for each calendar day on which such individual 
was required or permitted to work in excess of the standard 
workweek of forty (40) hours without payment of the overtime 
wages required by the clause set forth in paragraph (a) of this 
section. 
 
(c) Withholding for unpaid wages and liquidated damages. The 
Subrecipient shall upon its own action or upon written request of an 
authorized representative of the Department of Labor withhold or 
cause to be withheld, from any moneys payable on account of work 
performed by the contractor or subcontractor under any such 
contract or any other Federal contract with the same prime 
contractor, or any other federally -assisted contract subject to the 
Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act, which is held by 
the same prime contractor, such sums as may be determined to be 
necessary to satisfy any liabilities of such contractor or 
subcontractor for unpaid wages and liquidated damages as provided 
in the clause set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.  
 
(d) Subcontracts. The contractor or subcontractor shall insert in any 
subcontracts the clauses set forth in paragraph (a) through (d) of this 
section and also a clause requiring the subcontractors to include 
these clauses in any lower tier subcontracts. The pr ime contractor 
shall be responsible for compliance by any subcontractor or lower 
tier subcontractor with the clauses set forth in paragraphs (a) through 
(d) of this section.  
 
12. Debarment and Suspension. 
 
The Subrecipient shall comply and facilitate compliance with USDOT regulations, 
“Nonprocurement Suspension and Debarment,” 2 CFR Part 1200, which adopts and 
supplements the U.S. Office of Management and Budget (U.S. OMB) “Guidelines to 
Agencies on Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement),” 2 CFR Part 
180. These provisions apply to each contract at any tier of twenty- five thousand dollars 
($25,000.00) or more, and to each contract at any tier for a federally required audit 
(irrespective of the contract amount), and to each contract at any tier that must be approved 
by an FTA official irrespective of the contract amount. As such, the Subrecipient shall 
verify that its principals, affiliates, and subcontractors are eligible to participate in this 
federally funded contract and are not presently declared by any Federal department or 
agency to be:  
  
A. Debarred from participation in any federally assisted award; 
 
B. Suspended from participation in any federally assisted award;  
 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 12 of 24 
C. Proposed for debarment from participation in any federally assisted award;  
 
D. Declared ineligible to participate in any federally assisted award;  
 
E. Voluntarily excluded from participation in any federally assisted award; or  
 
F. Disqualified from participation in any federally assisted award.  
  
By executing this Agreement, the Subrecipient certifies as follows:  
  
The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact relied upon by WYDOT. 
If it is later determined by WYDOT that the Subrecipient knowingly rendered an erroneous 
certification, in addition to remedies available to WYDOT, the Federal Gove rnment may 
pursue available remedies, including but not limited to suspension and/or debarment. The 
Subrecipient agrees to comply with the requirements of 2 CFR Part 180, Subpart C, as 
supplemented by 2 CFR Part 1200, throughout the term of the Agreement. The 
Subrecipient further agrees to include a provision requiring such compliance in its lower -
tier covered transactions. 
 
13. Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE).  
 
It is the policy of WYDOT and the USDOT that DBEs, as defined herein and in the Federal 
regulations published at 49 CFR Part 26, shall have an equal opportunity to participate in 
USDOT-assisted contracts.  
  
The Subrecipient shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, or sex 
in the performance of this Agreement. The Subrecipient shall carry out applicable 
requirements of 49 CFR Part 26 in the award and administration of USDOT -assisted 
contracts. Failure by the Subrecipient to carry out these requirements is a material breach 
of this Agreement, which may result in the termination of this Agreement or such other 
remedy as WYDOT deems appropriate, which may include, but is not limited to:  
  
A. Withholding monthly progress payments;  
 
B. Assessing sanctions;  
 
C. Liquidated damages; and/or  
 
D. Disqualifying the Subrecipient from future bidding as non- responsible. 49 CFR § 
26.13(b).  
 
Prime contractors are required to pay subcontractors for satisfactory performance of their 
contracts no later than thirty (30) days from receipt of each payment WYDOT makes to 
the prime contractor. 49 CFR § 26.29(a).  
  
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 13 of 24 
Finally, for contracts with defined DBE contract goals, each FTA Recipient must include 
in each prime contract a provision stating that the Subrecipient shall utilize the specific 
DBEs listed unless the Subrecipient obtains WYDOT’s written consent; and tha t, unless 
WYDOT’s consent is provided, the Subrecipient shall not be entitled to any payment for 
work or material unless it is performed or supplied by the listed DBE. 49 CFR § 26.53(f) 
(1).  
 
14. Energy Conservation.  
  
The Subrecipient agrees to comply with mandatory standards and policies relating to 
energy efficiency, which are contained in the State energy conservation plan issued in 
compliance with the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C.§ 6201).  
 
15. Federal Tax Liability and Recent Felony Convictions.  
 
A. The Subrecipient certifies that it:  
 
(i) Does not have any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for 
which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have 
lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an 
agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability; and 
 
(ii) Was not convicted of the felony criminal violation under any Federal law 
within the preceding twenty-four (24) months.  
  
If the Subrecipient cannot so certify, WYDOT will refer the matter to FTA and not 
enter into any third- party agreement with the Subrecipient without FTA’s written 
approval.  
  
B. Flow-Down. The Subrecipient agrees to require the contractor to flow this 
requirement down to participants at all lower tiers, without regard to the value of 
any subagreement.  
 
16. Incorporation of Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Terms.  
 
The provisions within include, in part, certain Standard Terms and Conditions required 
under the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements 
for Federal Awards (2 CFR § 200), whether or not expressly set forth in the preceding 
Agreement provisions. All contractual provisions required by USDOT, detailed in 2 CFR 
Part 200 or as amended by 2 CFR part 1201, or the most recent version of FTA Circular 
4220.1 are hereby incorporated into this Agreement by this reference. Anything t o the 
contrary herein notwithstanding, all mandated terms shall be deemed to control in the event 
of a conflict with other provisions contained in this Agreement. The Subrecipient shall not 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 14 of 24 
perform any act, fail to perform any act, or refuse to comply with any request which would 
cause a violation of the FTA terms and conditions.  
 
17. No Government Obligation to Third Parties.  
 
The Subrecipient, its contractor, and subcontractor(s) acknowledge and agree that, 
notwithstanding any concurrence by the Federal Government in or approval of the 
solicitation or award of the underlying Agreement, absent the express written consent by 
the Federal Government, the Federal Government is not a party to this Contract and shall 
not be subject to any obligations or liabilities to the Subrecipient, contractor, and 
subcontractor(s) or any other party (whether or not a party to that contract) pertaining to 
any matter resulting from the underlying Contract. The Subrecipient agrees to include the 
above clause in each subcontract financed in whole or in part with Federal assistance 
provided by the FTA. It is further agreed that the clause shall not be modified, except to 
identify the contractor or subcontractor(s) who will be subject to its provisions. 
 
18. Notice to Third Party Participants.  
 
Federal requirements that apply to the Subrecipient or the award, the accompanying 
underlying Agreement, and any amendments thereto may change due to changes in Federal 
law, regulation, other requirements, or guidance, or changes in the Subrecipient’s 
underlying Agreement including any information incorporated by reference and made part 
of that underlying Agreement; and  
  
Applicable changes to those Federal requirements will apply to each third-party agreement 
and parties thereto at any tier. 
 
19. Notification to the FTA. 
 
If a current or prospective legal matter that may affect the Federal Government emerges, 
the Subrecipient must promptly notify the FTA Chief Counsel and the FTA Regional 
Counsel for the Region in which the Subrecipient is located. The Subrecipient must include 
a similar notification requirement in its third-party agreements and must require each third-
party participant to include an equivalent provision in its subagreements at every tier, for 
any agreement that is a “covered transaction” according to 2 CFR §§ 180.220 and 
1200.220. 
  
A. The types of legal matters that require notification include, but are not limited to, a 
major dispute, breach, default, litigation, or naming the Federal Government as a 
party to litigation or a legal disagreement in any forum for any reason.  
  
B. Matters that may affect the Federal Government include, but are not limited to, the 
Federal Government’s interests in the Award, the accompanying underlying 
Agreement, and any amendments thereto, or the Federal Government’s 
administration or enforcement of federal laws, regulations, and requirements.  
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 15 of 24 
  
C. The Subrecipient must promptly notify the USDOT Inspector General in addition 
to the FTA Chief Counsel or Regional Counsel for the Region in which the 
Subrecipient is located, if the Subrecipient has knowledge of potential fraud, waste, 
or abuse occurring on a project receiving assistance from FTA. The notification 
provision applies if a person has or may have submitted a false claim under the 
False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. § 3729 et seq. , or has or may have committed a 
criminal or civil violation of law pertaining to such matters as fraud, conflict of 
interest, bribery, gratuity, or similar misconduct. This responsibility occurs whether 
the Project is subject to this Agreement or another agreement between the 
Subrecipient and FTA, or an agreement involving a principal, officer, employee, 
agent, or Third-Party Participant of the Subrecipient. It also applies to contractors 
and subcontractor(s) at any tier. Knowledge, as used in this paragra ph, includes, 
but is not limited to, knowledge of a criminal or civil investigation by a Federal, 
State, or local law enforcement or other investigative agency, a criminal indictment 
or civil complaint, or probable cause that could support a criminal indic tment, or 
any other credible information in the possession of the Subrecipient.  
  
20. Program Fraud and False or Fraudulent Statements and Related Acts. 
 
The Subrecipient acknowledges that the provisions of the Program Fraud Civil Remedies 
Act of 1986, as amended, 31 U.S.C. § 3801 et seq . and USDOT regulations, “Program 
Fraud Civil Remedies,” 49 CFR Part 31, apply to its actions pertaining to this Project. Upon 
execution of the underlying Agreement, the Subrecipient certifies or affirms the 
truthfulness and accuracy of any statement it ha s made, it makes, it may make, or causes 
to be made, pertaining to the underlying Agreement or the FTA-assisted project for which 
this Agreement work is being performed. In addition to other penalties that may be 
applicable, the Subrecipient further acknowledges that if it makes, or causes to be made, a 
false, fictitious, or fraudulent claim, statement, submission, or certification, the Federal 
Government reserves the right to impose the penalties of the Program Fraud Civil 
Remedies Act of 1986 on the Subre cipient to the extent the Federal Government deems 
appropriate.  
 
The Subrecipient also acknowledges that if it makes, or causes to be made, a false, 
fictitious, or fraudulent claim, statement, submission, or certification to the Federal 
Government under a contract connected with a project that is financed in whole or in part 
with Federal assistance originally awarded by the FTA under the authority of 49 U.S.C. 
chapter 53, the Government reserves the right to impose the penalties of 18 U.S.C. § 1001 
and 49 U.S.C. § 5323(l) on the Subrecipient, to the extent the Federal Government deems 
appropriate.  
 
The Subrecipient agrees to include the above two (2) clauses in each subcontract financed 
in whole or in part with Federal assistance provided by the FTA. It is further agreed that 
the clauses shall not be modified, except to identify the subcontractor who will be subject 
to the provisions.  
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 16 of 24 
 
21. Prohibition on Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Service or 
Equipment. 
 
A. Subrecipients are prohibited from obligating or expending loan or grant funds to:  
 
(i) Procure or obtain;  
 
(ii) Extend or renew a contract to procure or obtain; or  
 
(iii) Enter into a contract (or extend or renew a contract) to procure or obtain 
equipment, services, or systems that use covered telecommunications 
equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of any system, 
or as critical technology as part of any system. As described in Public Law 
115-232, Section 889, covered telecommunications equipment is 
telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei Technologies 
Company or ZTE Corporation (or any subsidiary or affiliate of such 
entities).  
 
(a) For the purpose of public safety, security of government facilities, 
physical security surveillance of critical infrastructure, and other 
national security purposes, video surveillance and 
telecommunications equipment produced by Hytera 
Communications Corporation, Hangzhou Hikvision Digital 
Technology Company, or Dahua Technology Company (or any 
subsidiary or affiliate of such entities).  
 
(b) Telecommunications or video surveillance services provided by 
such entities or using such equipment.  
 
(c) Telecommunications or video surveillance equipment or services 
produced or provided by an entity that the Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Director of the National Intelligence or the 
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, reasonably believes 
to be an entity owned or controlled by, or otherwise connected to, 
the government of a covered foreign country.  
 
B. In implementing the prohibition under Public Law 115- 232, Section 889, 
Subsection (f), Paragraph (1), heads of executive agencies administering loan, 
grant, or subsidy programs shall prioritize available funding and technical support 
to assist affected bus inesses, institutions, and organizations as is reasonably 
necessary for those affected entities to transition from covered communications 
equipment and services, to procure replacement equipment and services, and to 
ensure that communications service to users and customers is sustained.  
  
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 17 of 24 
C. See Public Law 115-232, section 889 for additional information.  
  
D. See also 2 CFR § 200.471.  
  
22. Prompt Payment. 
 
The Subrecipient is required to pay its contractor(s) performing work related to this 
Agreement for satisfactory performance of that work no later than thirty (30) days after the 
Subrecipient’s receipt of payment for that work. In addition, the Subrecipient is required 
to return any retainage payments to the contractor within thirty (30) days after the 
contractor’s work related to this Agreement is satisfactorily completed.  
  
The Subrecipient must promptly notify WYDOT whenever a DBE subcontractor 
performing work related to this agreement is terminated or fails to complete its work and 
must make good faith efforts to engage another DBE subcontractor to perform at least the 
same amount of work. The Subrecipient may not terminate any DBE subcontractor and 
perform that work through its own forces or those of an affiliate without prior written 
consent of WYDOT.  
 
23. Public Transportation Employee Protective Arrangements. 
 
The Subrecipient agrees to comply with the following employee protective arrangements 
of 49 U.S.C. § 5333(b):  
  
A. U.S. Department of Labor Certification. Under this Agreement or any 
Amendments thereto that involve public transportation operations that are 
supported with Federal assistance, a certification issued by U.S. DOL is a condition 
of the Agreement.  
  
B. Special Warranty. When the Agreement involves public transportation operations 
and is supported with federal assistance appropriated or made available for 49 
U.S.C § 5311, U.S. DOL will provide a Special Warranty for its Award, including 
its Award of Federal assistance und er the Tribal Transit Program. The U.S. DOL 
Special Warranty is a condition of the contract. 
 
C. Special Arrangements. The conditions of 49 U.S.C. § 5333(b) do not apply to 
contractors providing public transportation operations pursuant to 49 U.S.C. § 
5310. The FTA reserves the right to make case -by-case determinations of the 
applicability of 49 U.S.C. § 5333(b) for all t ransfers of funding authorized under 
Title 23, United States Code (flex funds), and make other exceptions as it deems 
appropriate, and, in those instances, any special arrangements required by the FTA 
will be incorporated herein as required.  
  
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 18 of 24 
24. Safe Operation of Motor Vehicles. 
 
A. Seat Belt Use.  The Subrecipient is encouraged to adopt and promote on- the-job 
seat belt use policies and programs for its employees and other personnel that 
operate company-owned vehicles, company rented vehicles, or personally operated 
vehicles. The terms “company -owned” and “company -leased” refer to vehicles 
owned or leased by the Subrecipient. 
 
B. Distracted Driving.  The Subrecipient agrees to adopt and enforce workplace 
safety policies to decrease crashes caused by distracted drivers, including policies 
to ban text messaging while using an electronic device supplied by an employer, 
and driving a vehicle the driver owns or rents, a vehicle Subrecipient owns, leases, 
or rents, or a privately-owned vehicle when on official business in connection with 
the work performed under this Agreement.  
  
25. School Bus Operations. 
 
A. The Subrecipient agrees to comply with 49 U.S.C. § 5323(f), and 49 CFR Part 604, 
and not engage in school bus operations using federally funded equipment or 
facilities in competition with private operators of school buses, except as permitted 
under:  
 
(i) Federal transit laws, specifically 49 U.S.C. § 5323(f);  
 
(ii) FTA regulations, “School Bus Operations,” 49 CFR part 605;  
 
(iii) Any other Federal School Bus regulations; or  
 
(iv) Federal guidance, except as FTA determines otherwise in writing.  
  
B. If Subrecipient violates this school bus Agreement, the FTA may:  
 
(i) Bar the Subrecipient from receiving Federal assistance for public 
transportation; or 
 
(ii) Require the Subrecipient to take such remedial measures as the FTA 
considers appropriate.  
  
C. When operating exclusive school bus service under an allowable exemption, the 
Subrecipient may not use federally funded equipment, vehicles, or facilities.  
 
D. The Subrecipient should include the substance of this clause in each subcontract or 
purchase under this Agreement that may operate public transportation services.  
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 19 of 24 
 
26. Substance Abuse Requirements. 
 
The Subrecipient agrees to establish and implement a drug and alcohol testing program 
that complies with 49 CFR Part 655 (Part 655), produce any documentation necessary to 
establish its compliance with Part 655, and permit any authorized representative of the 
USDOT or its operating administrations, the State Oversight Agency, or WYDOT, to 
inspect the facilities and records associated with the implementation of the drug and alcohol 
testing program as required under Part 655 and review the testing process. The Subrecipient 
further agrees to annually certify its compliance with Part 655 and to submit the 
Management Information System (MIS) reports to WYDOT.  
  
27. Termination. 
 
A. Termination for Convenience (General Provision). WYDOT may terminate this 
Agreement, in whole or in part, at any time by written notice to the Subrecipient 
when it is in WYDOT’s best interest. The Subrecipient shall be paid its costs, 
including contract close-out costs, and profit on work performed up to the time of 
termination.  
 
The Subrecipient shall promptly submit its termination claim to WYDOT to be paid 
to the Subrecipient. If the Subrecipient has any property in its possession belonging 
to WYDOT, the Subrecipient will account for the same, and dispose of it in the 
manner WYDOT directs. 
 
B. Termination for Default [Breach or Cause] (General Provision).  If the 
Subrecipient does not deliver supplies in accordance with the Agreement delivery 
schedule, or if the contract is for services, the Subrecipient fails to perform in the 
manner called for in the Agreement, or if the Subrecipient fails to comply with any 
other provisions of the Agreement, WYDOT may terminate this Agreement for 
default. Termination shall be effected by serving a Notice of Termination on the 
Subrecipient setting forth the manner in which the Subrecipient is in default. The 
Subrecipient w ill be paid only the Agreement price for supplies delivered and 
accepted, or services performed in accordance with the manner of performance set 
forth in the Agreement. If it is later determined by WYDOT that the Subrecipient 
had an excusable reason for not performing, such as a strike, fire, or flood, events 
which are not the fault of or are beyond the control of the Subrecipient, WYDOT 
after setting up a new delivery of performance schedule, may allow the Subrecipient 
to continue work, or treat the termination as a Termination for Convenience. 
 
C. Opportunity to Cure (General Provision).  WYDOT, in its sole discretion may, 
in the case of a termination for breach or default, allow the Subrecipient ten (10) 
days to cure the defect. In such case, the Notice of Termination will state the time 
period in which cure is permitted and other appropriate conditions. 
 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 20 of 24 
If the Subrecipient fails to remedy, to WYDOT’s satisfaction, the breach or default 
of any of the terms, covenants, or conditions of this Agreement within ten (10) days 
after receipt by the Subrecipient of written notice from WYDOT setting forth the 
nature of said breach or default, WYDOT shall have the right to terminate the 
Agreement without any further obligation to Subrecipient. Any such termination 
for default shall not in any way operate to preclude WYDOT from also pursuing all 
available remedies agai nst the Subrecipient and its sureties for said breach or 
default.  
 
D. Waiver of Remedies for any Breach.  In the event that WYDOT elects to waive 
its remedies for any breach by the Subrecipient of any covenant, term or condition 
of this Agreement, such waiver by WYDOT shall not limit WYDOT’s remedies 
for any succeeding breach of that or of any other covenant, term, or condition of 
this Agreement. 
 
E. Termination for Convenience (Professional or Transit Service Contracts). 
WYDOT, by written notice, may terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, 
when it is in WYDOT’s interest. If this Agreement is terminated, WYDOT shall be 
liable only for payment under the payment provisions of this Agreement for 
services rendered before the effective date of termination.  
 
F. Termination for Default (Supplies and Service).  If the Subrecipient fails to 
deliver supplies or to perform the services within the time specified in this 
Agreement or any extension, or if the Subrecipient fails to comply with any other 
provisions of this Agreement, WYDOT may terminate this Agreement for default. 
WYDOT shall terminate by delivering to the Subrecipient a Notice of Termination 
specifying the nature of the default. The Subrecipient will only be paid the 
Agreement price for supplies delivered and accepted, or services performed in 
accordance with the manner or performance set forth in this Agreement. If, after 
termination for failure to fulfill contract obligations, it is determined that the 
Subrecipient was not in default, the rights and obligations of the parties shall be the 
same as if the termination had been issued for the convenience of WYDOT.  
 
G. Termination for Default (Transportation Services). If the Subrecipient fails to 
pick up the commodities or to perform the services, including delivery services, 
within the time specified in this Agreement or any extension, or if the Subrecipient 
fails to comply with any other provisions of this Agreement, WYDOT may 
terminate this Agreement for default. WYDOT shall terminate by delivering to the 
Subrecipient a Notice of Termination specifying the nature of default. The 
Subrecipient will only be paid the Agreement price for services performed in 
accordance with the manner of performance set forth in this Agreement. 
 
If this Agreement is terminated while the Subrecipient has possession of WYDOT 
goods, the Subrecipient shall, upon direction of WYDOT, protect and preserve the 
goods until surrendered to WYDOT or its agent. The Subrecipient and WYDOT 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 21 of 24 
shall agree on payment for the preservation and protection of goods. Failure to 
agree on an amount will be resolved under the Dispute clause. 
 
If, after termination for failure to fulfill contract obligations, it is determined that 
the Subrecipient was not in default, the rights and obligations of the parties shall be 
the same as if the termination had been issued for the convenience of WYDOT.  
 
H. Termination for Default (Construction).  If the Subrecipient refuses or fails to 
prosecute the work or any separable part, with the diligence that will ensure its 
completion within the time specified in this Agreement or any extension or fails to 
complete the work within this time, or if the Subrecipient fails to comply with any 
other provision of this Agreement, WYDOT may terminate this Agreement for 
default. WYDOT shall terminate by delivering to the Subrecipient a Notice of 
Termination specifying the nature of the default. In this event, WYDOT  may take 
over the work and complete it by Agreement or otherwise, and may take possession 
of and use any materials, appliances, and plants on the work site necessary for 
completing the work. The Subrecipient and its sureties shall be liable for any 
damage to WYDOT resulting from the Subrecipient’s refusal or failure to complete 
the work within the specified time, whether or not the Subrecipient’s right to 
proceed with the work is terminated. This liability includes any increased costs 
incurred by WYDOT in completing the work. The Subrecipient’s right to proceed 
shall not be terminated nor shall the Subrecipient be charged with damages under 
this clause if:  
 
(i) The delay in completing the work arises from unforeseeable causes beyond 
the control and without the fault or negligence of the Subrecipient. 
Examples of such causes include: acts of God, acts of WYDOT, acts of 
another contractor in the performance of an A greement with WYDOT, 
epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, freight embargoes; and 
 
(ii) The Subrecipient, within ten (10) days from the beginning of any delay, 
notifies WYDOT in writing of the causes of delay. If, in the judgment of 
WYDOT, the delay is excusable, the time for completing the work shall be 
extended. The judgment of WYDOT shall be final and conclusive for the 
parties, but subject to appeal under the Disputes clause(s) of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) If, after termination of the Subrecipient’s right to proceed, it is determined 
that the Subrecipient was not in default or that the delay was excusable, the 
rights and obligations of the parties will be the same as if the termination 
had been issued for the convenience of WYDOT.  
 
I. Termination for Convenience or Default (Architect and Engineering).  
WYDOT may terminate this Agreement in whole or in part, for WYDOT’s 
convenience or because of the failure of the Subrecipient to fulfill the Agreement 
obligations. WYDOT shall terminate by delivering to the Subrecipient a Notice of 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 22 of 24 
Termination specifying the nature, extent, and effective date of the termination. 
Upon receipt of the notice, the Subrecipient shall (1) immediately discontinue all 
services affected (unless the notice directs otherwise), and (2) deliver to WYDOT’s 
Local Government Coordination (LGC) Office all data, drawings, specifications, 
reports, estimates, summaries, and other information and materials accumulated in 
performing this Agreement, whether completed or in process. WYDOT has a 
royalty-free, nonexclusive, and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish or 
otherwise use all such data, drawings, specifications, reports, estimates, summaries, 
and other information and materials. 
 
If the termination is for the convenience of WYDOT, WYDOT’s LGC Office shall 
make an equitable adjustment in the Agreement price but shall allow no anticipated 
profit on unperformed services.  
 
If the termination is for failure of the Subrecipient to fulfill the Agreement 
obligations, WYDOT may complete the work by Agreement or otherwise and the 
Subrecipient shall be liable for any additional cost incurred by WYDOT. 
 
If, after termination for failure to fulfill Agreement obligations, it is determined that 
the Subrecipient was not in default, the rights and obligations of the parties shall be 
the same as if the termination had been issued for the convenience of WYDOT. 
 
J. Termination for Convenience or Default (Cost-Type Contracts). WYDOT may 
terminate this Agreement, or any portion of it, by serving a Notice of Termination 
on the Subrecipient. The notice shall state whether the termination is for 
convenience of WYDOT or for the default of the Subrecipient. If the termination is 
for default, the notice shall state the manner in which the Subrecipient has failed to 
perform the requirements of the Agreement. The Subrecipient shall account for any 
property in its possession paid for from funds received from WYDOT, or property 
supplied to the Subrecipient by WYDOT. If the termination is for default, WYDOT 
may fix the fee, if the Agreement provides for a fee, to be paid the Subrecipient in 
proportion to the value, if any, of work performed up to the time of termination. 
The Subrecipient shall promptly submit its termination claim to WYDOT and the 
parties shall negotiate the termination settlement to be paid the Subrecipient.  
 
If the termination is for the convenience of WYDOT, the Subrecipient shall be paid 
its agreement close-out costs, and a fee, if the Agreement provided for payment of 
a fee, in proportion to the work performed up to the time of termination.  
  
If, after serving a Notice of Termination for Default, WYDOT determines that the 
Subrecipient has an excusable reason for not performing, WYDOT, after setting up 
a new work schedule, may allow the Subrecipient to continue work, or treat the 
termination as a Termination for Convenience.  
 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 23 of 24 
28. Violation and Breach of Contract. 
 
A. Disputes. Disputes arising in the performance of this Agreement that are not 
resolved by agreement of the parties shall be decided in writing by the authorized 
representative of WYDOT. This decision shall be final and conclusive unless 
within ten (10) days from the date of receipt of its copy, the Subrecipient mails or 
otherwise furnishes a written appeal to WYDOT’s authorized representative. In 
connection with any such appeal, the Subrecipient shall be afforded an opportunity 
to be heard and to offer evidence in support of its position. The decision of 
WYDOT’s authorized representative shall be binding upon the Subrecipient and 
the Subrecipient shall abide by the decision. 
 
B. Performance During Dispute. Unless otherwise directed by WYDOT’s 
authorized representative, Subrecipient shall continue performance under this 
Agreement while matters in dispute are being resolved.  
 
C. Claims for Damages. Should either party to the Agreement suffer injury or damage 
to person or property because of any act or omission of the party or of any of his 
employees, agents or others for whose acts he is legally liable, a claim for damages 
therefore shall be made in writing to such other party within a reasonable time after 
the first observance of such injury or damage.  
 
D. Remedies. Unless this Agreement provides otherwise, all claims, counterclaims, 
disputes and other matters in question between WYDOT’s authorized 
representative and Subrecipient arising out of or relating to this Agreement or its 
breach will be decided by arbitratio n if the parties mutually agree, or in a court of 
competent jurisdiction within the State of Wyoming.  
 
E. Rights and Remedies.  Duties and obligations imposed by the Agreement 
documents and the rights and remedies available thereunder shall be in addition to 
and not a limitation of any duties, obligations, rights, and remedies otherwise 
imposed or available by law. No action or fa ilure to act by WYDOT or the 
Subrecipient shall constitute a waiver of any right or duty afforded any of them 
under the Agreement, nor shall any such action or failure to act constitute an 
approval of or acquiescence in any breach thereunder, except as may be specifically 
agreed in writing.  
 
29. Whistleblower Protection.  
 
In accordance with 41 U.S.C. § 4712 and 2 CFR § 200.217, an employee of a subrecipient 
or contractor may not be discharged, demoted, or otherwise discriminated against as a 
reprisal for making a “protected disclosure”. 
 
A. Definition of Protected Disclosure: A disclosure is protected if the employee 
reasonably believes the information is evidence of: 
Updated May 2026  
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2027 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -27-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and  
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 24 of 24 
 
(i) Gross mismanagement or a gross waste of Federal funds. 
 
(ii) An abuse of authority relating to a Federal contract or grant. 
 
(iii) A substantial and specific danger to public health or safety. 
 
(iv) A violation of law, rule, or regulation related to a Federal contract or grant. 
 
B. Authorized Recipients of Disclosures:  For statutory protection to apply, the 
employee must disclose the information to one of the following: 
 
(i) A Member of Congress or a representative of a congressional committee. 
 
(ii) An Office of Inspector General (OIG). 
 
(iii) The Government Accountability Office (GAO). 
 
(iv) A Federal employee responsible for contract/grant oversight at the relevant 
agency (e.g., FTA). 
 
(v) An authorized official of the DOJ or other law enforcement agency. 
 
(vi) A court or grand jury. 
 
(vii) A management official or employee of the contractor or subrecipient who 
has responsibility for investigating, discovering, or addressing misconduct. 
 
C. Mandatory Notification:  The Subrecipient and its contractors are statutorily 
required to inform their employees and subcontractors in writing of these 
whistleblower rights and protections under 41 U.S.C. § 4712. 
 
D. Flow-Down: The Subrecipient shall include the substance of this clause in all third-
party contracts and subcontracts at every tier. 
 
 
THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK. 