MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-02-10 | CLIP_ID: 1000 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1000

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 10, 2025  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons , Ken 
Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal and Jeff White. Absent: 
Tom Segrave. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 27, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing in accordance with Wyo. Stat. §15-9-208(c) on the 
Plan of Development for the Downtown Development Area. Public comments were made by: 
Astrid and Glen Garrett. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Mr. Roybal 
and Mr. White. There being no further comments or input and the purpose of the hearing having 
been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 15.08, 15.09,  
15.10, 15.12, 15.16, 15.22, 15.24 and 15.26 of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, updating specified Building Code 
requirements and making technical corrections as further specified. Reporting for Public Services 
Committee, Mr. White  moved to approve  on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal . Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comment was made by: 
Michael White. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending various sections within Chapter 8.12, 
International Fire Code adopted, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, updating the edition of the International Fire Code adopted by the City 
and further amending as specified. Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Dr. Emmons . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich.  
 
 
2 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending section 8.24.020 of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, clarifying and further regulating the installation of above-ground 
tanks and containers as specified . Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Repealing the provisions for the Paid On- Street Parking 
Districts program of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, further amending 
the regulatory authority governing parking in Cheyenne and abrogating any On- Street Parking 
District designated by Resolution of the Governing Body – referred to Public Services Committee.  
(Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Mr. White)   
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Sections 1.4.4, 5.1.4 and 5.7.10 of the Unified 
Development Code to remove the land use term ‘Work Camps’ and prohibit their establishment 
within the City – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Moody, Dr. 
Rinne, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White) 
   
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the ‘2024 Cheyenne DDA Plan of Development’ presented 
by the Downtown Development Authority of the City of Cheyenne  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Girl Scouts of Montana and 
Wyoming, for 45.93 acres of city- owned real property located near the former Roundtop Water 
Treatment Facility to be used for the purposes of conducting activities consistent with the By-Laws 
and Articles of Incorporation of the Girl Scouts of Montana and Wyoming (Revenue to the City). 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount of $100.00). (#8131) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and TDSi -  The Design 
Studio, inc., for professional architecture and engineering services for various projects at the 
Historic Cheyenne Depot and Depot Plaza (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8070 with Wyoming Department of Health, Aging 
Division to provide transportation support services to persons 60 years or older under the Title 
IIIB Program Grant for FY25 (IIIB Division on Aging Grant) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount of $10,192.00). (#8070) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Contract #7531 between the City of Cheyenne and Waste 
Management for Recycling Services through April 15, 2026 (Solid Waste Fund)  – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification  #2 to Contract #7447 between the City of Cheyenne and HDR 
Engineering, Inc., for the 5th Street Bridge over Crow Creek Design Project (2019-2022 Optional 
1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment #6 to Contract #2985 between the City of Cheyenne and the City of Cheyenne-
Laramie County Joint Powers Board for use of premises within Frontier Park – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
3 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #4 to Contract #6441 between the City of Cheyenne and Microsoft 
Corporation for the renewal to the City’s Enterprise Office 365 Online Enrollment (General Fund) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #  S-11-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Academy Sports Turf, Inc., for the Pioneer Park Baseball Field Synthetic Turf Replacement 
Project (One Time State Distribution Funds, Community Facility Fees) . Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $212,700.00). (#8132) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-6-25 for 95 and 65 Gallon Residential Autocarts (trash cans) for 
the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Axon Enterprise, Inc. for the 
purchase of a 60 -month subscription for ten (10) Axon Fleet -3 in- car cameras, peripheral 
hardware, software, licensing and warranties for the City of Cheyenne Police Department (General 
Fund Reserves) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Governing body comment was made by Mr. Moody on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, February 24, 2025 at 
6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic 
conference meeting, for renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, 
limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite distillery, special malt beverage 
and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office. 
 
 Announcement was made that due to the President’s Day Holiday on Monday, February 
17, 2025, the regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the 
Municipal Building, Room 104, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting as follows: Public Services Committee will meet Tuesday, February 18, 2025 
at Noon and Finance Committee will meet Wednesday, February 19, 2025 at Noon. 
 
 Public comments were made by the following under Other Business: Corey Lynn Loghry, 
Scott Hahn, Astrid, Michelle Shimmin, Virginia Dandy Brinkerhoff  and Veronica (no last name 
provided). 
 
 The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Moody. 
 
 Dr. Rinne  moved to meet in executive session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4- 
405(a)(iii)(x), seconded by Mr. Roybal . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not 
open to the public and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of 
the executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially concl ude at the 
close of the executive session. 
  
4 
 
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:24 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  February 19, 2025  
   