MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-02-24 | CLIP_ID: 1002 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1002

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 24, 2025  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons , Ken 
Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White. Absent: Dr. 
Mark Rinne. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody, item #16(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. D r. Aldrich 
moved to approve the remaining items, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 10, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for renewal applications for existing City liquor 
licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite 
distillery, special malt beverage and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office. Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Roybal. There 
being no further comments or input and the purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins 
closed the public hearing and referred the applications to Finance Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 15.08, 15.09,  
15.10, 15.12, 15.16, 15.22, 15.24 and 15.26 of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, updating specified Building Code 
requirements and making technical corrections as further specified. Reporting for Public Services 
Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4613)  
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending various sections within Chapter 8.12, 
International Fire Code adopted, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, updating the edition of the International Fire Code adopted by the City 
and further amen ding as specified . Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr. White . Mr. Segrave moved to amend by substitute dated February 13, 2025, 
seconded by Mr. White. Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” –  all members of 
the governing body present. Main motion as amended by substitute  carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#4614) 
2 
 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending section 8.24.020 of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, clarifying and further regulating the installation of above-ground 
tanks and containers as specified . Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. (#4615) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Repealing the provisions for the Paid On-Street Parking 
Districts program of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, further amending 
the regulatory authority governing parking in Cheyenne and abrogating any On- Street Parking 
District designated by Resolution of the Governing Body. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Segrave voting “no”. Public comment was made 
by: Maren Stalp, Exie Brown, Astrid, Corey Lynn Loghry, Scott Hahn, Glen Garrett, Caleb 
Wilkins, Susan Allen and Allen Sheldon. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody and Mr. Segrave. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Sections 1.4.4, 5.1.4 and 5.7.10 of the 
Unified Development Code to remove the land use term ‘Work Camps’ and prohibit their 
establishment within the City. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. 
Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public 
comment was made by:  Allen Sheldon. Comments were made by the following member s of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody. 
   
 RESOLUTION – Approving the ‘2024 Cheyenne DDA Plan of Development’ presented 
by the Downtown Development Authority of the City of Cheyenne. Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. White. Mr. Segrave moved to amend by substitute Plan of Development dated 
February 21, 2025, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend by substitute Plan of Development 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Main motion as amended by 
substitute Plan of Development  carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the gov erning body  
present. Public comment was made by:  Astrid, Brian Bau, Wendy Volk and Dani ca Mrozinsky. 
Comments were made by the following member s of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mr. 
Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Mr. Segrave. (#6452) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Appointing Successor Trustees and designating specified City Officers 
as Trustees to the City of Cheyenne Health Benefit Trust  – referred to Finance Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 2025 for the 
City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Urban Area  – referred to  Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsors – Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and TDSi -  The Design 
Studio, inc., for professional architecture and engineering services for various projects at the 
Historic Cheyenne Depot and Depot Plaza (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund). Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $167,539.00). (#8137) 
 
3 
 
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of 
Environmental Quality for a FY2024 Clean Water Act, Section 319, Non -Point Source 
Implementation Grant to assist in construction of the Kiwanis Park Trail and Constructed Wetlands 
Project (FY2024 CWA Section 319 Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Great Western 
Installations, Inc., for the Optimist Park – Playground Design and Installation (CDBG -Parks 
Projects Grant and Development Impact Fees) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification #3 to Contract #7531 between the City of Cheyenne and Waste 
Management for Recycling Services through April 15, 2026 (Solid Waste Fund) . Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $ 250,000.00, 
seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. Comments were made by the following member s of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, 
Mayor Collins and Mr. White. (#7531) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification  #2 to Contract #7447 between the City of Cheyenne and HDR 
Engineering, Inc., for the 5th Street Bridge over Crow Creek Design Project. (2019-2022 Optional 
1% Sales Tax Fund)  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$224,793.00). (#7447) 
 
[CA] Amendment #6 to Contract #2985 between the City of Cheyenne and the City of Cheyenne-
Laramie County Joint Powers Board for use of premises within Frontier Park. Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#2985) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #4 to Contract #6441 between the City of Cheyenne and Microsoft 
Corporation for the renewal to the City’s Enterprise Office 365 Online Enrollment (General Fund). 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $139,617.09). (#6441) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-6-25 for 95 and 65 Gallon Residential Autocarts (trash cans) for 
the Sanitation Division. (Solid Waste Fund) Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( accepted bid 
from Rehrig Pacific Company in an amount not to exceed $132,611.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Axon Enterprise, Inc. for the 
purchase of a 60 -month subscription for ten (10) Axon Fleet -3 in- car cameras, peripheral 
hardware, software, licensing and warranties for the City of Cheyenne Police Department (General 
Fund Reserves). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $106,998.00). 
(#8138) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -12-25 for As -Needed Emergency Snow Control for the Public 
Works Department (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
4 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 10, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a retail liquor license transfer of location application filed with the City Clerk's Office 
for F & G Corporation d/b/a The Green Door, from 301 E. Lincolnway to 255 Storey Blvd., 
Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing  to be held March 10, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for the renewal application filed with the City Clerk's Office for F & G Corporation d/b/a 
The Green Door, 255 Storey Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing  to be held March 10, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Frontier 
Trampoline Park Inc. d/b/a  Frontier Trampoline Park, 3501 E. Lincolnway, Suite B, Cheyenne, 
WY. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing  to be held March 10, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Thompson-
Weaver LLC d/b/a Parkway Pizza, 3753 E. Lincolnway B-6, Cheyenne, WY. 
 
 Public comment was made by the following under Other Business: Richard Johnson. 
 
 The following member of the governing body made comment  under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:26 pm. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 5, 2025 
   