MEETING: Special City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-02-25 | CLIP_ID: 1005 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1005

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 24, 2025 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in special session on this date beginning 
at 7:35 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting, for the purpose of 
collective labor bargaining with the Cheyenne Professional Firefighters, International Association 
of Firefighters, Local No. 279.  Present were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS 
– Dr. Michelle Aldrich,  Dr. Kathy Emmons, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Scott 
Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White.  Absent: Dr. Mark Rinne.  Also present: Kylie Soden, City 
Clerk, Amber Ash, Chief of Staff, John Brodie, City Attorney, Robin Lockman, City Treasurer  
and Chief John Kopper and Deputy Chief Andrew Dykshorn, Cheyenne Fire Rescue. The pledge 
of allegiance was recited. 
 
Mayor Collins provided opening comments  and noted the importance of the labor 
management discussions that occur leading up to negotiations. He provided meeting room location 
information that would be used for the purpose of caucusing if needed. The proposed Ground Rules 
were agreed upon and signed by the City and Union. [Clerk’s note: City’s Spokespersons we re 
Mayor Patrick Collins, City Attorney John Brodie and City Council Vice President Scott Roybal.  
The Union’s Spokespersons were Neil Durante, Vincent McQueeney and Chris Thoms .]  Mayor 
Collins and Vincent McQueeney, Spokesperson for the Cheyenne Professional Firefighters, 
International Association of Firefighters, Local No. 279, expressed mutual appreciation for their 
continued collaboration in working together on the Collective Labor Agreement. 
   
Mayor Collins and Union Spokesperson McQueeney reviewed the proposed agreement 
which included changes to the following: Section 2 – Definitions; Section 4 – Term of Agreement; 
Section 13 – Management Rights; Section 15 – Department Staffing; Section 21 – Classification 
of Employment and Basic Wages; Section 22 – Overtime;  Section 23 – Working in a Highter Job 
Rank; Section 24 – Conversion of Benefit Hours; Section 25 – Wellness/Fitness Program; Section 
27 – Sick Leave and Section 42 – Longevity Pay. Mayor Collins and Mr. McQueeney announced 
acceptance of the proposed agreement as written.   
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:04 p.m.  
 
       Submitted by, 
        
        
       Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 5, 2025 