MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-03-11 | CLIP_ID: 1008 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1008

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 10, 2025  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons (via Zoom), 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Moody, items #12 and #19(a)  were removed from the Consent Agenda. 
Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Esquibel, 
item #17(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve the remaining 
items, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 24, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on February 24, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a retail liquor license transfer of location 
application filed with the City Clerk's Office for F & G Corporation d/b/a The Green Door, from 
301 E. Lincolnway to 255 Storey Blvd., Cheyenne, WY . Comment was made by the following 
member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich . There being no further comments or input and the 
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the 
application to Finance Committee. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for the renewal application filed with the City 
Clerk's Office for F & G Corporation d/b/a The Green Door, 255 Storey Blvd., Cheyenne, WY . 
There being no comments or input and the purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins 
closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a restaurant liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk's Office for Frontier Trampoline Park Inc. d/b/a Frontier Trampoline Park, 3501 E. 
Lincolnway, Suite B, Cheyenne, WY. Comments were made by the following member s of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich  and Dr. Rinne . There being no further comments or input and the 
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the 
application to Finance Committee. 
2 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a restaurant liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk's Office for Thompson-Weaver LLC d/b/a Parkway Pizza, 3753 E. Lincolnway B-
6, Cheyenne, WY. Public comment was made by: Christopher Thompson. There being no further 
comments or input and the purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the 
public hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Repealing the provisions for the Paid On-Street Parking 
Districts program of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, further amending 
the regulatory authority governing parking in Cheyenne and abrogating any On- Street Parking 
District designated by Resolution of the Governing Body. Reporting for Public Services 
Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. 
Mr. Segrave moved to amend by substitute dated March 5, 2025, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion 
to amend failed. Voting “yes” – Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Segrave. Voting “no” – Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, D r. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White. Mr. 
Segrave moved to amend by substitute dated March 5, 2025, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Dr. Rinne 
moved to amend Section 10.52.220(b) to add a sunset date of June 30, 2026 unless renewed by the 
governing body, seconded by Mr. Roybal. A point of order was raised by Mr. Segrave related to 
comments not being germane to the proposed amendment.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend to eliminate the George Cox garage, 
seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion failed. Voting “no” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “yes”. Mr. Esquibel moved to amend to limit free garage 
parking to a 24 hour period, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Esquibel voting “yes”. Motion to amend 
by substitute failed due to a tie vote . Voting “yes” – Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel , Dr. Rinne, Mr. 
Roybal and Mr. Segrave. Voting “no” – Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody 
and Mr. White. Main motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Mr. Segrave voting “no”. Public comment was made by:  Rob Dickerson, Ja cob 
Wasserburger, Astrid, Scott Hahn, Corey L oghry, Caleb Wilkins, Susan Allan, JB K unz, Danica 
Hecht and Lee Filer. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. 
Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. (#4616) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Sections 1.4.4, 5.1.4 and 5.7.10 of the Unified 
Development Code to remove the land use term ‘Work Camps’ and prohibit their establishment 
within the City. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment was made by: 
Lee Filer. Comments were made by the following member s of the governing body:  Mr. Moody 
and Dr. Rinne. (#4617) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located southwest of the intersection of Wild 
Bluff and Ogden Road from MR Medium-Density Residential to NR-2 Neighborhood Residential 
- Medium Density – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
3 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Appointing Successor Trustees and designating specified City Officers 
as Trustees to the City of Cheyenne Health Benefit Trust . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6453) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Certifying the Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 2025 for the 
City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Urban Area . Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, seconded Mr. 
White. Mr. Segrave moved to amend the Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan to include 
Appendixes A, B and C, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. Comments were made by the following member s of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody. (#6454) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the revised City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Investment Policy 
Statement – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the '201 Agreement' for the owner of the 
property located south of High Plains Road and west of South Greeley Highway, between Robert 
Avenue and Dayshia Lane – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Harmony Valley 5th filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between 
Allison Road and West College Drive, west of Walterscheid Boulevard)  – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving Water and Sanitary Sewer Service by Outside User 
Agreement for Thunder Basin Land CO LLC, for land located south of High Plains Road and west 
of South Greeley Highway – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of 
Environmental Quality for a FY2024 Clean Water Act, Section 319, Non- Point Source 
Implementation Grant to assist in construction of the Kiwanis Park Trail and Constructed Wetlands 
Project (FY2024 CWA Section 319 Grant) . Reporting for Finance Committee, M r. Laybourn 
moved to approve in an amount of $112,904.00, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was made by the following member of the 
governing body: Mr. Laybourn. (#8144) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Great Western 
Installations, Inc., for the Optimist Park – Playground Design and Installation (CDBG -Parks 
Projects Grant  and Development Impact Fees ). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $299,825.46). (#8145) 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the Cheyenne Civic Center and Local 229 of the International Alliance 
of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts of the 
United States, for production services (Civic Center Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
4 
 
[CA] 2025-2026 Collective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne 
Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Trihydro Corporation 
for the Landfill Compliance Monitoring Services (Solid Waste Fund)  – referred to  Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7520 between the City of Cheyenne and Benchmark 
Engineers, PC for additional engineering services for the Christensen Road Design Modifications 
project (2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #7866 between the City of Cheyenne, Office of 
Youth Alternatives and Laramie County School District #1 to extend the contract for community 
and crisis counseling services (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Consideration of Bid #E -12-25 for As -Needed Emergency Snow Control for the Public 
Works Department (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Mr. Laybourn moved to accept bid 
from S&S Builders, Full Tilt, and Knife River in an amount not to exceed $300,000.00 for a period 
of 3 years, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn, Mr. 
Moody and Mr. White. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -15-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Quality Electric for the Cheyenne Fire Rescue – Installation of Owner Provided Backup 
Generators for Stations #2 and #6 project (Development Impact Fees and Homeland Security 
Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, 
resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite distillery, special malt beverage and winery 
permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Governing body comment s were made by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody on the Voucher 
Report as presented. 
 
 Public comment w as made by the following under Other Business:  Jacob Wasserburger 
and Charles Bloom. 
 
 The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody and Mr. Roybal. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:07 pm. 
 
 
 
5 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 19, 2025 
   