MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-03-24 | CLIP_ID: 1010 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1010

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 24, 2025  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons , Ken 
Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody,  Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda . Upon request by Mr. Segrave, and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal , item #9 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by 
Mr. Moody, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White, item #12 was removed 
from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Segrave moved to approve  the remaining items, seconded by Dr. 
Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 10 , 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located southwest of the intersection of Wild 
Bluff and Ogden Road from MR Medium-Density Residential to NR-2 Neighborhood Residential 
- Medium Density. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 10.24.190, Critical Traffic Control 
Areas; Creation and Administration; Enhanced Penalties, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, Modifying the Provisions Governing the Creation and Enforcement of such 
Areas – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Chapter 10.82, Motor -assisted Scooters, 
Electric Bicycles, and Bicycles Equipped with GPS of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, authorizing dockless vehicle companies to 
conduct business in the city using the city's formal procurement process, making a conforming 
amendment and repealing obsolete provisions – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. 
Laybourn and Mr. Segrave) 
 
 
 
2 
 
 RESOLUTION – Adopting the revised City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Investment Policy 
Statement. Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
Esquibel. Dr. Rinne moved to amend Section IV, item number 6 of the policy to add “A minimum 
of” two non-City employees with financial expertise shall be appointed by the Chairman of the 
Committee for 2-year terms, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. Main motion as amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. Comments were made by the following member s of the governing body: 
Mayor Collins and Dr. Rinne. (#6455) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the '201 Agreement' for the owner of the 
property located south of High Plains Road and west of South Greeley Highway, between Robert 
Avenue and Dayshia Lane. Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Laybourn. Mr. Segrave 
moved to postpone  to April 14, 2025, seconded by Mr. Laybourn. Motion to postpone carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne 
and Mr. Roybal voting “no” . Public comment was made by:  Steve Winchell and Tanya Keller. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave.  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Harmony Valley 5th filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between 
Allison Road and West College Drive, west of Walterscheid Boulevard) . Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6456) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving Water and Sanitary Sewer Service by Outside User 
Agreement for Thunder Basin Land CO LLC, for land located south of High Plains Road and west 
of South Greeley Highway. Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6457) 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the Cheyenne Civic Center and Local 229 of the International Alliance 
of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts of the 
United States, for production services (Civic Center Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#8150) 
 
[CA] 2025-2026 Collective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne 
Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters. Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#8151) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Trihydro Corporation 
for the Landfill Compliance Monitoring Services (Solid Waste Fund) . Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $281,007.00). (#8152) 
 
[CA]  Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Department of  
Transportation for 2025 Thermoplastic Pavement Markings (2023 -2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 
3 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7520 between the City of Cheyenne and Benchmark 
Engineers, PC for additional engineering services for the Christensen Road Design Modifications 
project (2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund). Mr. Laybourn moved to approve in an amount 
not to exceed $52,836.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody. (#7520) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #7866 between the City of Cheyenne, Office of 
Youth Alternatives and Laramie County School District #1 to extend the contract for community 
and crisis counseling services  (Revenue to City) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried  (in an 
amount of $361,386.90). (#7866) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -15-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Quality Electric for the Cheyenne Fire Rescue – Installation of Owner Provided Backup 
Generators for Stations #2 and #6 project  (Development Impact Fees and Homeland Security 
Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $149,467.00). (#8153) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-12-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and BCM, 
Inc, d/b/a Mortensen Electric, for the Dutcher Fields Lighting Installation project (One Time 
Distribution Funds & Community Facility Fees) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E -13-25 for one (1) Rough Mower for the City of Cheyenne Golf 
Division (Golf Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-14-25 for furnishing Bituminous Asphalt Hot Mix, Tack Oil, and 
Cold Mix on an annual basis, for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019- 2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Retail liquor license transfer of location application filed with the City Clerk's Office for F 
& G Corporation d/b/a The Green Door, from 301 E. Lincolnway to 255 Storey Blvd., Cheyenne, 
WY. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Renewal application filed with the City Clerk's Office for F & G Corporation d/b/a The 
Green Door, 255 Storey Blvd., Cheyenne, WY. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Frontier 
Trampoline Park Inc. d/b/a Frontier Trampoline Park, 3501 E. Lincolnway, Suite B, Cheyenne, 
WY. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Thompson-
Weaver LLC d/b/a Parkway Pizza, 3753 E. Lincolnway B-6, Cheyenne, WY. Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the June 12, 2025 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Summer Convention Business 
Meeting to be held in Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
4 
 
 Governing body comments were made by Mayor Collins and Mr. Moody on the Voucher 
Report as presented. 
 
 Governing body comment was made by Dr. Aldrich on the Revenue Report as presented.  
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 14, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Frontier 
Daze, LLC d/b/a Cheba Hut, 3838 Atkin St., Cheyenne, WY. 
 
 The following member of the governing body made comment  under Other Business: Mr. 
Moody. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:38 pm. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 2, 2025 
   