MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-04-14 | CLIP_ID: 1012 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1012

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 14, 2025  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, 
Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White. Absent: Dr. Kathy 
Emmons. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Moody and Mr. White, item #17(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by 
Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Moody, item #19(c) was 
removed from the Consent Agenda. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve the remaining items, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 24, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Frontier Daze, LLC d/b/a Cheba Hut, 3838 Atkin St., Cheyenne, WY. 
Public comment was made by: Seth Lars en, Cheba Hut. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Esquibel. There being no further comments 
or input and the purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing 
and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located southwest of the intersection of Wild 
Bluff and Ogden Road from MR Medium-Density Residential to NR-2 Neighborhood Residential 
- Medium Density. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#4618) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 10.24.190, Critical Traffic Control 
Areas; Creation and Administration; Enhanced Penalties, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, Modifying the provisions governing the creation and enforcement of such 
areas. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
2 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Chapter 10.82, Motor -assisted Scooters, 
Electric Bicycles, and Bicycles Equipped with GPS of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, authorizing dockless vehicle companies to 
conduct business in the city using the city's formal procurement process, making a conforming 
amendment and repealing obsolete provisions . Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend Section 
10.82.110 (A)(2) to add “in a timely manner,” seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to amend carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne and 
Mr. Roybal voting “no.” Dr. Aldrich moved to amend Section 10.82.110 to remove items (A)(8) 
and (B)(9), seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to amend failed. Voting “no” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of  Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody voting 
“yes.” Mr. Moody moved to amend Section 10.82.110 to remove  items (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5 ), 
(A)(7), (B)(6) and (B)(7), seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend failed. Voting “no” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “yes.” Mr. Moody 
moved to amend Section 10.82.110 (C) to replace “may select one or more” with “may select any 
operator,” seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion to amend failed. Voting “no” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “yes.” Main motion as amended 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception o f Mr. 
Laybourn and Mr. Moody voting “no.” Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending and updating the Solid Waste Fee Schedule in 
accordance with Section 8.44.010 of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming and 
repealing Ordinance No. 4571 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Repealing Chapter 12.28, Downtown Graffiti Abatement 
Pilot Program of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the '201 Agreement' for the owner of the 
property located south of High Plains Road and west of South Greeley Highway, between Robert 
Avenue and Dayshia Lane . Mr. Segrave advised there was no recommendation from Public 
Services Committee. Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal . Dr. Rinne moved to 
postpone to April 28, 2025, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present. Public comment was made by: Tanya Keller. 
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Mayor Collins. 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2025 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16- 4-112 and 16-4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Trailhead Estates, 1st Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of 
the intersection of Ogden Road and Crane Bluff Road)  – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
3 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Trailhead Estates, 2nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of 
the intersection of Ogden Road and Crane Bluff Road)  – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Jolly 
Rogers, 3rd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located Northwest of U.S. 30 
and Whitney Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
  Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Department of  
Transportation for 2025 Thermoplastic Pavement Markings (2023 -2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund).  Mr. Laybourn moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $234,845.00, seconded by 
Mr. Moody. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, 
Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#8160) 
 
[CA]  Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7633 between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie 
County Community College for the CDL “Your Truck” Training Program (Various City Funds )  
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7955 between the City of Cheyenne and Trihydro 
Corporation for Landfill Mapping and Survey Services (Solid Waste Fund)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-12-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and BCM, 
Inc, d/b/a Mortensen Electric, for the Dutcher Fields Lighting Installation project  (One Time 
Distribution Funds & Community Facility Fees ). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $729,000.00). (#8161) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E -13-25 for one (1) Rough Mower for the City of Cheyenne Golf 
Division. (Golf Fund) Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid from LL Johnson 
Distributing Company in an amount not to exceed $79,310.11). 
 
  Consideration of Bid #E-14-25 for furnishing Bituminous Asphalt Hot Mix, Tack Oil, and 
Cold Mix on an annual basis, for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019- 2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Mr. Laybourn moved to accept the bid from JTL Group Inc. d/b/a 
Knife River for hot mix and cold mix in an amount not to exceed $442,625.00 and to accept the 
bid from Simon Contractors for tack oil in an amount not to exceed $19,200.00 for a total amount 
not to exceed $461,825.00, seconded by Mr. Moody. Comment w as made by the following 
member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E -16-25 for furnishing a 2000 Gallon Single Axle Oil Distributor 
Truck for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
4 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E -17-25 for furnishing a 2000 Gallon Water Truck for the City of 
Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019- 2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax)  – referred to  Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E -18-25 for furnishing a 30 Yard Rolloff Truck for the City of 
Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the June 12, 2025 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Summer Convention Business 
Meeting to be held in Cheyenne, Wyoming. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( designated 
President Rinne as the Official Voting Delegate and Mayor Collins as the Alternate).  
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing  to be held April 28, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a winery liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Wagonhound 
Wine LLC d/b/a Wagonhound Wine Company, 1610 Capitol Ave., Cheyenne, WY. 
 
Announcement was made that effective the week of April 21, 2025, Finance and Public 
Services Committee meetings will be held in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue. 
 
 The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Mr. White. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:47 pm. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 23, 2025 
   