MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-05-12 | CLIP_ID: 1016 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1016

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 12, 2025  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons,  Ken 
Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody , Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Moody and Mr. White, item #14 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by Dr. 
Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Moody and Mr. White , item #15 was removed 
from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by 
Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, item #16 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Roybal moved 
to approve remaining items, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 28, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a restaurant liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Fox & Friends Inc. d/b/a Spice Zone Indian Restaurant, 600 W. 19th 
St., Cheyenne, WY. There being no comments or input and the purpose of the hearing having been 
met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending and updating the Solid Waste Fee Schedule in 
accordance with Section 8.44.010 of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming and 
repealing Ordinance No. 4571. Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody voting “no”. (#4621) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Repealing Chapter 12.28, Downtown Graffiti Abatement 
Pilot Program of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. (#4622) 
 
 
2 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Sections 1.4.3, 1.4.4, and 5.7.2 of the Unified 
Development Code to amend specific uses allowed as Home Occupations and add clarifying 
definitions. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich . Mr. 
Segrave moved to amend by substitute dated May 7, 2025, seconded by Mr. White. Motion to 
amend by substitute failed. Voting “no” – all members of the governing body. Main motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Dr. 
Rinne voting “no”. During discussion, Dr. Rinne raised a point of order that comments were not 
germane to the motion. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave.  
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2025, and ending June 30, 2026 – referred 
to Committee of the Whole. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne)  
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer rates, 
tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and septic 
and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities  – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne)  
 
 RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the '201 Agreement' for the owner of the 
property located south of High Plains Road and west of South Greeley Highway, between Robert 
Avenue and Dayshia Lane . Mr. Segrave  advised there was no recommendation from Public 
Services Committee. Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Dr. Rinne moved to 
postpone to May 27, 2025, seconded by Mr. Roybal . Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  Public 
comment was made by: Tanya Keller. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for acceptance of real 
property from Sloan Lake, LLC. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6462) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Finding and declaring certain areas within the City of Cheyenne as blight 
and authorizing the redevelopment thereof in accordance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -9-106. Mr. 
Segrave moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body  with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody voting “no”.  Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Moody and Dr. 
Rinne. (#6463) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City -
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded by current city limits situate 
in northeast Cheyenne generally located north Dell Range Boulevard, west and east of Ridge Road, 
and south of Storey Boulevard . Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting 
“no”. Public comment was made by: Exie Brown. Comments were made by the following 
3 
 
members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich,  Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons  and Mr. Moody.  
(#6464) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Certifying and adopting the Belvoir Ranch Master Plan . Mr. Segrave 
moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Public comment was made by: Mark Christensen, AVI P.C. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody. (#6465) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Memorandum of Understanding with 
Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for the provision of public safety services during the annual Frontier 
Days events – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2025, and ending June 30, 2026  – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City -
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded by current city limits situate 
in east Cheyenne generally located south of Dell Range Boulevard, east of Dry Creek, west  of 
Whitney Road, and north of Charles Street  – referred to Public Services Committee . (Sponsor – 
Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Adopting a revised Cheyenne -Laramie County Board of Health fee 
schedule for various services and inspections  – referred to Finance Committee . (Sponsor – Mr. 
Laybourn) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – To temporarily reduce the monthly parking fee at the Jack C. Spiker 
parking structure, effective July 1, 2025, through June 30, 2026 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Moody and Mr. White) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Approving sanitary sewer services, by Outside User Agreement for 
Sutherland's Fun Family Fitness, LLC, for land at 2611 and 2607 Whitney Road (located east of 
Whitney Road south of Pershing Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. Segrave)  
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Approving sanitary sewer and water services, by Outside User 
Agreement, for Icerock Wyoming, LLC, for land located east of Clear Creek Parkway south of 
High Plains Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and GLM Design Group, 
LLC, for a feasibility study, benefit -cost analysis, and preliminary design of the Cheyenne Dry 
Creek Union Pacific Railroad Project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax and FEMA BRIC Grant) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 
4 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the State of Wyoming, 
Department of State Parks and Cultural Resources, Division of State Parks, Historic Sites & Trails 
to set forth the terms and conditions under which the Agency will oversee and disburse 
legislatively approved funding to the City to provide qualified project management for the High 
Plains Arboretum Rehabilitation Project (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization and Felsburg Holt & Ullevig for the Safe Streets for All Comprehensive 
Safety Action Plan (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund and Federal Highway Administration 
SS4A Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #7535 between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield of 
Wyoming for third party administrator services and group health insurance benefits for city 
employees (Various City Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6837 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental for  group 
dental insurance benefits for City employees  (Various City Funds)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Advanced Security 
Technologies LLC, for the purchase of nine (9) Modular Vehicle Barrier Systems and Trailer 
Packages (General Fund Reserves) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $1,529,264.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Ace Equipment & Supply 
Company, for the purchase of two (2) sets of Rotary Mobile -Column Lifting Systems  (Fleet 
Maintenance Fund & Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not 
to exceed $185,878.00). 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -17-25 for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group Inc. d/b/a Knife River, for the 2025 City Overlay #1 Project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried  (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed 
$1,349,869.00). #8169 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-18-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Miller 
& Sons Construction Inc. for the 2025 Miscellaneous Concrete Project (2023-2026 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed 
$642,479.86). #8170 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-21-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and T C 
Solutions, LLC, for the Christensen Road Modifications: Drainage, Signage and Lighting Project 
(2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in 
an amount not to exceed $566,499.00). #8171 
 
5 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-16-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors, for the 2025 Dell Range Overlay project (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Winery liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Wagonhound Wine 
LLC d/b/a Wagonhound Wine Company, 1610 Capitol Ave., Cheyenne, WY. Mr. Laybourn 
declared a conflict  of interest  and vacated  council chambers. Mr. Moody moved to approve, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present in council chambers. Following the announcement of the vote, Mr. Laybourn returned to 
council chambers.  Public comment was made by: Jackson Laybourn. Comment was made by the 
following member of the governing body: Mayor Collins. 
 
 Appointments of Dr. Teresa Simkins -Aris, Marie Hamilton -Morganroth, Amy Simpson 
and Robert Jacobson to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities. Dr. Aldrich moved to 
approve, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of  Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointment). Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mayor Collins. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
  
 An announcement was made that due to the Memorial Day holiday and City offices being 
closed on Monday, May 26, 2025, the regularly scheduled City Council meeting will instead be 
held on Tuesday, May 27, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in the Municipal Building, City Council Chambers, 
2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY.  
 
 An announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 27, 2025 at 6:00pm at 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute 
§15-1-402 exist for the City-initiated annexation of 95 parcels of land totaling roughly 44.56 acres 
comprised of various tracts of land and rights -of-way situate in northeast Cheyenne generally 
located north of Dell Range Boulevard, east and west of Ridge Road, and south of Storey 
Boulevard.  
 
 An announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 27, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Cheyenne 
Hokkaido LLC d/b/a Cheyenne Hokkaido Ramen, 1720 Capitol Ave., Cheyenne, WY .   
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Moody and Mr. White. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:02 pm. 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  May 17, 2025 
   
 
 