MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2025-06-09 | CLIP_ID: 1020 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1020

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 9, 2025  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich (via Zoom), Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel (via Zoom) , Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom 
Segrave and Jeff White.  Also present: Kylie Soden , City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was 
recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, item #24(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Segrave 
moved to approve the remaining items, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 2 7, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for about 199.67 acres of land generally 
located east of South Greeley Highway and north of Chalk Bluff Road. Public comment was made 
by: Mark Christensen, AVI PC , agent for the applicant . Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Roybal . There being no further comments 
or input and the purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public 
hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and 
Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2026. There being no comments or input and the purpose 
of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2025, and ending June 30, 2026. Reporting 
for the Committee of the Whole, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. White . Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated June 5, 2025, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
Main motion as amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comment was made 
2 
 
by: Erin LeBlanc and Katie Brady, Laramie County Senior Services. Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. 
Moody. The following is a summary of the proposed budget, including the aforementioned 
amendments: General Fund, $74,517,876; Weed and Pest, $801,700; Youth Alternatives Grants, 
$919,234; Recreation Programs, $2,656,270, Community Development Block Grant, $660,183; 
Law Enforcement Grants, $267,441; Miscellaneous Federal Grants, $1,125,070; Transportation 
Planning, $1,805,225; Transit, $6,023,629; Juvenile Justice, $280,726; Youth Alternatives 
Mentoring, $73,794; Development Impact Fees, $1,531,100; One Percent Sales Tax, $13,878,876; 
Specific Purpose Option Tax, $595,554; Youth A ctivities, $19,195; Golf Facilities, $570,700; 
Fleet Maintenance, $7,090,211; Solid Waste Management, $21,513,486; Civic Center, 
$2,369,999; Ice & Events Center, $970,215; Surface Water Mitigation, $5,983,757; Perpetual 
Care, $16,400; Self -Insurance $11,203,838; Total City, $154,874,481; Water Enterprise, 
$31,851,815; Sewer Enterprise, $16,920,270; Total Appropriation, $203,646,566. (#4624) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities . 
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved to approve  on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody voting “no”. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Dr. Rinne. (#4625) 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending portions of the Unified Development Code, 
modifying provisions related to Park Impact Fees, including the timing of fee payment and 
permitted uses of such fees, and making conforming amendments thereto. Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White . 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending portions of the Unified Development Code 
regarding signage, to increase allowances for window signs and further clarifying prohibited signs. 
Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White . Dr. Rinne moved to 
amend Section 3, Pedestrian Signs, bullet point three to read “Window Signs shall be allowed in 
any window. Window signs sha ll be counted toward the allowed wall sign area. If 100% of the 
window area is to be covered, it must utilize  a material that allows light to penetrate in to the 
building”, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”. Main motion as amended carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins and Dr. Rinne. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current city limits situate in northeast Cheyenne generally 
located north of Dell Range Boulevard, east and west of Ridge Road and south of Storey 
Boulevard. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and 
Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comment was made by:  Daniel Singh. Comments were made by 
3 
 
the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classifications of: AG – Agriculture; MR – Medium-Density 
Residential; MUR – Mixed-Use Residential; and, CB – Community Business, for land annexed to 
the City of Cheyenne gene rally located north of Dell Range Boulevard, east and west of Ridge 
Road and south of Storey Boulevard. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the gover ning body with the 
exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of land generally located east of South Greeley Highway and north of Chalk Bluff Road – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne to assign a Zoning Classification of AG Agricultural to a parcel of land annexed to the 
City, generally located east of South Greeley Highway and north of Chalk Bluff Road – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Moody and Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 10.04.050, Obedience Required, of 
the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to clarify the default offense level f or 
violations of Title 10 of the Municipal Code – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 6.08.180, Feeding Geese and Ducks 
Prohibited, of Chapter 6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, 
of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to include seagulls and extend the 
feeding prohibition to all property within city limits – referred to Public Services Committee.  
(Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the 
Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2025, and ending June 30, 2026. Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6475) 
 
 [CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the submission of an 
application by the Cheyenne Transit Program to the Wyoming Department of Transportation for 
grant funding under the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program . Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6476) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities to execute a Grant 
Agreement with the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for Federal Emergency Management 
Agency Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities funding and to authorize the Director 
of the Board to execute all related documents . Mr. Laybourn moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of 
4 
 
Mr. Moody voting “no”. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body:  
Mr. Moody. (RES. #6477/CONT. #8182) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities to discharge 
uncollectible debts pursuant to Wyoming Statute 16-4-502. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6478) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Directing the City of Cheyenne to list the Cheyenne Auxiliary Pumping 
Station located at 1504 Dillon Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming for sale to the public as specified – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Moody) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Companion Life for Stop Loss Insurance for 
city employees (Various City Funds). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#8183) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Board of 
Public Utilities and McGee, Hearne & Paiz (MHP), LLP to provide financial and compliance 
auditing services for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2025 (General Fund) . Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $103,350.00). (#8184) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and TDSi – The Design 
Studio, inc., for the South Lions Park Dunbar Field Improvements Design Services project (2021 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund and Rec Mill Grant). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in 
an amount not to exceed $86,912.00). (#8185) 
 
 Contract between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Game and Fish Commission by 
and through the Wyoming Game and Fish Department to allow public access for hunting, without 
charge, to the Hunter Management Area located on the Belvoir Ranch (Revenue to the City). Mr. 
Laybourn moved to approve  in an amount not to exceed $40,655.00, seconded by Mr. Moody. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. 
Emmons voting “no”. Public comment was made by:  Kelly Todd, Wyoming Game and Fish  
Department. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Mayor 
Collins and Mr. Moody. (#8186) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Frog Creek Partners to 
define responsibilities with each party associated with the installation and maintenance of Gutter 
Bins installed within the city. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#8187) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne 
Downtown Development Authority for professional and administrative services for the fiscal year 
beginning July 1, 2025 and ending June 30, 2026 (General Fund) . Dr. Rinne moved to approve , 
seconded by Mr. White . Dr. Rinne moved to amend section 4( a)(i) to remove “the Director of 
Planning and Development Department” in the first sentence and replace with “the DDA Board”, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated June 9, 2025, seconded by Mr. Roybal. 
Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Main 
motion as twice amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
5 
 
exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Dr. Rinne. (#8188) 
 
[CA] Minimum Revenue Guaranteed Payment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
the Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team (CRAFT) for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026 
(2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Industrial and Economic Development Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS) for the 
period of July 1, 2025 to June 30, 2026 (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HDR Engineering, 
Inc., for the 18th Street Reconstruction Project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund, FEMA 
HMGP Grant and BOPU Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Right-of-Way License Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Volunteers of 
America Northern Rockies for connection of a storm sewer pipe from the onsite detention pond to 
the storm sewer network in Seymour Avenue near East 25 th Street – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc. for the use of city- owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities 
during the 2025 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebration (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for Animal Control 
Services (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
[CA] Contract Modification #1 between the City of Cheyenne and Remix Technologies LLC to 
provide Transit Routing Software Services for the Cheyenne Transit Program  (Transit Fund) . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $48,950.00). (#8189) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7991 between the City of Cheyenne and S & S 
Builders, LLC for the 2024 Dell Range Concrete Repair for Overlay project (2023-2026 Optional 
1% Sales Tax Fund and 2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $296,622.00). (#7991) 
 
 Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and UrbanSDK for the purchase 
of a three (3) year software subscription for geospatial vehicle traffic and infrastructure analytics 
platform (General Fund Reserves). Mr. Laybourn moved to approve  in an amount not to exceed 
$105,367.50, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the 
governing body. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and 
Mr. White. (#8190) 
 
6 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-19-25 for furnishing Mid-Size SUVs and a Full-Size SUV for the 
City of Cheyenne, Solid Waste and Fleet Pool (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund and Solid 
Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -20-25 for furnishing five (5) new Snow Plows for the City of 
Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-21-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Kleen-
Tech Services, LLC, for Janitorial Services for the City of Cheyenne – Cheyenne Public Safety 
Center (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-21-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Kleen-
Tech Services, LLC, for Janitorial Services for the City of Cheyenne – Cheyenne Municipal 
Building (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-21-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and ABM 
Industry Groups, LLC, for Janitorial Services for the City of Cheyenne – Cheyenne Municipal 
Court (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-22-25 for furnishing an Automatic Tarping Machine for the  City 
of Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -24-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Climate Control LLC, for HVAC and Mechanical Systems Maintenance (2019-2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund, Civic Center Fund, Fleet Maintenance Fund, General Fund, Solid Waste Fund, 
Ice and Events Center Fund and Recreation Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -25-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Pro 
Coatings, Inc., for the Spiker Garage Interior Painting Project (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Cheyenne 
Hokkaido LLC d/b/a Cheyenne Hokkaido Ramen, 1720 Capitol Ave., Cheyenne, WY. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
  
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 23, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
for the 2025- 2027 City of Cheyenne Comprehensive Consolidated Plan and the 2025 Annual 
Action Plan, as prepared by Cheyenne Housing and Community Development. 
 
The following agreement was introduced under Other Business and referred to the June 17, 
2025 Finance Committee meeting - Combined Water and Wastewater Agreement between the City 
of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities and South Cheyenne Water and Sewer District. 
7 
 
 Public comment s were made by the following under Other Business: Roger Barns , 
Cheyenne Gunslingers and Katie Brady. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Moody and Mr. White. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:42 pm. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 19, 2025 
   
 