MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-06-23 | CLIP_ID: 1022 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1022

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 23, 2025  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, Ken 
Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne (arrived at 6:13 p.m.), Scott Roybal, Tom 
Segrave and Jeff White.  Also present: Kylie Soden , City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was 
recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Moody and Mr. Roybal, item #20(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request 
by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by Mr. White and Mr. Moody, item #20(g) was 
removed from the Consent Agenda. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve the remaining items, seconded 
by Mr. Roybal. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 9 , 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for the 2025- 2027 City of Cheyenne 
Comprehensive Consolidated Plan and the 2025 Annual Action Plan, as prepared by Cheyenne 
Housing and Community Development . Public comment w as made by: Dan Dorsch, Executive 
Director, Habitat for Humanity  of Laramie County. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Esquibel. There being no further comments 
or input and the purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public 
hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending portions of the Unified Development Code, 
modifying provisions related to Park Impact Fees, including the timing of fee payment and 
permitted uses of such fees, and making conforming amendments thereto. Reporting for Public  
Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
White. Mr. Segrave moved to amend by substitute dated June 18, 2025, seconded by Mr. White . 
Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Main 
motion as amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. Segrave. (#4626) 
 
 
 
2 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending portions of the Unified Development Code 
regarding signage, to increase allowances for window signs and further clarifying prohibited signs. 
Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4627) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current city limits situate in northeast Cheyenne generally 
located north of Dell Range Boulevard, east and west of Ridge Road and south of Storey 
Boulevard. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White . 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comments were made by: Mary Symons, Exie Brown, 
Michael White and Richard Johnson . Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. (#4628) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classifications of: AG – Agriculture; MR – Medium-Density 
Residential; MUR – Mixed-Use Residential; and, CB – Community Business, for land annexed to 
the City of Cheyenne gene rally located north of Dell Range Boulevard, east and west of Ridge 
Road and south of Storey Boulevard. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body. 
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. (#4629) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of land generally located east of South Greeley Highway and north of Chalk Bluff Road. Mr. 
Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal . Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was made by the following member of the 
governing body: Mr. Moody. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne to assign a Zoning Classification of AG Agricultural to a parcel of land annexed to the 
City, generally located east of South Greeley Highway and north of Chalk Bluff Road. Mr. Segrave 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 10.04.050, Obedience Required, of 
the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to clarify the default offense level for 
violations of Title 10 of the Municipal Code. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 6.08.180, Feeding Geese and Ducks 
Prohibited, of Chapter 6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, 
of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to include seagulls and extend the 
feeding prohibition to all property within city limits. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Public comment  was made by:  Zachary Mangin , Ella P arish and Richard Johnson. 
3 
 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, 
Mr. Moody and Mr. Roybal.  
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending and repealing multiple Sections of Chapter 
9.24, Weapons, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, relating to the sale, transport, discharge, possession and regulation of 
firearms to better con form to state statute and avoid duplication with federal law – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing the City of Cheyenne to list the Cheyenne Auxiliary Pumping 
Station located at 1504 Dillon Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming for sale to the public as specified. 
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Moody. Mr. 
Laybourn moved to amend by substitute dated June 20, 2025, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to 
amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Mayor Collins, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave voting “no” . Dr. Aldrich moved to postpone to 
July 14, 2025, seconded by Mr. White . Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. Public comments were made 
by: Milward Simpson, Historic Preservation Board, Randy Byers, Stephanie Lowe  and Maren 
Kallas, Historic Cheyenne Inc. and Gunnar Malm, County Commissioner. Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the 2025-2027 City of Cheyenne Comprehensive Consolidated 
Plan and 2025 Annual Action Plan, as prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community 
Development Office and setting the public comment period and public hearings for the plans 
(CDBG GRANT) – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for federal funding through the Transportation Alternatives Program administered by the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of constructing safety and intersection 
geometric improvements for the Pershing Boulevard and Windmill Road Intersection Project  – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing that plans for the 15th Street Corridor Revitalization Project 
preserve the Cheyenne Gunslingers’ current location, layout, buildings and landscaping at West 
15th Street and Pioneer Avenue – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich 
and Mr. Moody)  
 
 Minimum Revenue Guaranteed Payment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
the Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team (CRAFT) for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026 
(2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax). Mr. Laybourn moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$253,572.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Esquibel. (#8197) 
 
4 
 
[CA]  Industrial and Economic Development Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS) for the 
period of July 1, 2025 to June 30, 2026 (General Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in 
an amount not to exceed $100,000.00). (#8198) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HDR Engineering, 
Inc., for the 18th Street Reconstruction Project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund, FEMA 
HMGP Grant and BOPU Funds). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( in an amount not to 
exceed $1,100,562.00). (#8199) 
 
[CA] Right-of-Way License Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Volunteers of 
America Northern Rockies for connection of a storm sewer pipe from the onsite detention pond to 
the storm sewer network in Seymour Avenue near East 25th Street. Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#8200) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc. for the use of city- owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities 
during the 2025 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebration (Revenue to the City). Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#8201) 
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for Animal Control 
Services (Revenue to the City). Mr. Laybourn advised there was no recommendation from Finance 
Committee. Mr. Laybourn moved to approve in an amount of $156,850.00, seconded by Mr. 
Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Mayor Collins raised 
a point of order  regarding the action from the Finance Committee . Comment was made by the 
following member of the governing body: Mr. Moody. (#8202) 
 
 Combined Water and Wastewater Agreement between South Cheyenne Water and Sewer 
District and City of Cheyenne and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities. Mr. Laybourn 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Comments were made by the following member s of the governing body:  Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins and Mr. Segrave. (#8203) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-19-25 for furnishing Mid-Size SUVs and a Full-Size SUV for the 
City of Cheyenne, Solid Waste and Fleet Pool (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund and Solid 
Waste Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Fremont Motor Company, 
Lander, WY, in an amount not to exceed $141,587.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -20-25 for furnishing five (5) new Snow Plows for the City of 
Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019- 2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Motion (pe r 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Fremont Ameri-Tech Equipment Co., Evansville,  
WY, in an amount not to exceed $216,887.50). 
 
 
 
5 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-21-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Kleen-
Tech Services, LLC, for Janitorial Services for the City of Cheyenne – Cheyenne Public Safety 
Center (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$266,054.52). (#8204) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-21-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Kleen-
Tech Services, LLC, for Janitorial Services for the City of Cheyenne – Cheyenne Municipal 
Building (General Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( in an amount not to exceed  
$261,071.40). (#8205) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-21-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and ABM 
Industry Groups, LLC, for Janitorial Services for the City of Cheyenne – Cheyenne Municipal 
Court (General Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( in an amount not to exceed  
$91,926.72). (#8206) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-22-25 for furnishing an Automatic Tarping Machine for the  City 
of Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid 
from Tarpomatic, Inc., Canton, OH, in an amount not to exceed $93,060.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -24-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Climate Control LLC, for HVAC and Mechanical Systems Maintenance (2019-2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund, Civic Center Fund, Fleet Maintenance Fund, General Fund, Solid Waste Fund, 
Ice and Events Center Fund and Recreation Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $1,446,167.00). (#8207) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -25-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Pro 
Coatings, Inc., for the Spiker Garage Interior Painting Project (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax 
Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $253,527.00). (#8208) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-19-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Z and 
Z Sealcoating for the 2025 Crack Seal Project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-20-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Asphalt Preservation, LLC, for the 2025 Surface Seal Project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-26-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Vintage Rail Restorations for the Cheyenne Railcar Project, Historic Exterior Restoration, Bid 
Package No. 2 (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund, General Fund Reserves and Economic 
Development Administration Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-27-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Mechanical Systems, Inc. for the Cheyenne Aquatic Center Pool Boiler Replacement Project (One 
Time State Distribution Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
6 
 
[CA] Request to extend the time period in which F & G Corporation d/b/a The Green Door has 
to become operational for an additional year for their retail license, located at 255 Storey Blvd., 
Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Appointment of Andrew Dykshorn as Chief of the Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department. Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral 
appointment). Comment w as made by the following member of the governing body:  Mayor 
Collins. 
  
 Reappointments of Scott Thomas and Richard Leslie to the Public Transit Advisory Board; 
Josh Morris to the Cheyenne/Laramie County Economic Development Joint Powers Board; Ryan 
Whitehead to the Urban Renewal Authority Board; Wendy Volk to the Downtown Deve lopment 
Authority Board and Renee Hansen and Chad Dunlay to the Laramie County Community Juvenile 
Services Joint Powers Board. Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins 
who did not vote (mayoral appointment)  and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. Comment was made by 
the following member of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn. 
 
 Appointments of Eric Jackson, Corporal Dawson Smith and Ross McKelvey to the Laramie 
County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board; Kelly Sevier and Patrick Vann to the 
Historic Preservation Board and Lindsey Hanlon to the Public Transit Advisory Board. Dr. Aldrich 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointment). 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
  
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 14, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15- 1-
402 exist for the City- initiated annexation of 38 parcels of land totaling roughly 49.86 acres 
comprised of various tracts of land and rights-of-way situate in eastern Cheyenne generally located 
south of Dell Range Boulevard, east of Dry Cree k, west of Whitney Road, and north of Charles 
Street.  
 
 Public commen t was made by the following under Other Business: John Brodie, City 
Attorney. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Moody and Mr. Segrave. 
 
Dr. Rinne  moved to meet in executive session Pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4- 
405(a)(vii), seconded by Dr. Emmons . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open to 
7 
 
the public and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the 
executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close 
of the executive session. The following staff members were in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s 
Chief of Staff; John Brodie, City Attorney; Brenda Moureaux, Deputy City Treasurer and Kylie 
Soden, City Clerk. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:53 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 2, 2025 
   
 