MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-07-14 | CLIP_ID: 1024 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1024

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 14, 2025  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, Ken 
Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda . Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 23, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15- 1-402 exist for the City- initiated annexation of 38 
parcels of land totaling roughly 49.86 acres comprised of various tracts of land and rights-of-way 
situate in eastern Cheyenne generally located south of Dell Range Boulevard, east of Dry Creek, 
west of Whitney Road, and north of Charles Street. Public comment was made by : Suzanne 
Slattery. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and 
Mr. Moody. There being no further comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing having 
been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of land generally located east of South Greeley Highway and north of Chalk Bluff Road. Reporting 
for Public Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4630) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne to assign a Zoning Classification of AG Agricultural to a parcel of land annexed to the 
City, generally located east of South Greeley Highway and north of Chalk Bluff Road. Mr. Segrave 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. (#4631) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 10.04.050, Obedience Required, of 
the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to clarify the default offense level for 
violations of Title 10 of the Municipal Code. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final 
2 
 
reading, seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. (#4632) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 6.08.180, Feeding Geese and Ducks 
Prohibited, of Chapter 6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, 
of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to include seagulls and extend the 
feeding prohibition to all property within city limits. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Mr. Segrave moved to amend by substitute dated July 9, 
2025, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. Main motion as amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. Public comments were made by: Zachary Mangin and Suzanne Slattery. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body : Dr. Aldrich and Mr. 
Moody. (#4633) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending and repealing multiple Sections of Chapter 
9.24, Weapons, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, relating to the sale, transport, discharge, possession and regulation of 
firearms to better con form to state statute and avoid duplication with federal law. Mr. Segrave 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White. Mr. Moody moved to amend by 
substitute dated July 11, 2025, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Dr. Emmons moved to amend t he 
substitute by re-adding Section 9.24.120 language, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend 
the substitute failed. Voting “no” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. 
Emmons and Mr. Segrave voting “yes”. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Emmons voting “no”. Main motion as 
amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Dr. Emmons voting “no”. Public comment was made by: Alan Sheldon, Exie Brown, 
Mark Jones, Gun Owners of America, Bill Bryant and Kathy Scigliano. Comments were made by 
the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons and Mr. 
Moody.  
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in eastern Cheyenne, generally 
located south of Dell Range Boulevard, east of Dry Creek, west of Whitney Road, and north of 
Charles Street – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classifications of: AR - Agricultural Residential; MR - Medium-
Density Residential; HR -  High-Density Residential; CB -  Community Business; and, MUR -  
Mixed-Use Residential, for land annexed to the City of Cheyenne generally located south of Dell 
Range Boulevard, east of Dry Creek, west of Whitney Road, and north of Charles Street – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of Interstate 80 and west of 
Roundtop Road from LI – Light Industrial to BP -  Business Park – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
3 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2025-2026 – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – To amend the Official Zoning Map of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code, for property located east of South Greeley Highway and north of 
Chalk Bluff Road in Cheyenne, Wyoming, changing the zoning classification from HI (Heavy 
Industrial) and AG (Agricultural) to BP (Business Park) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing the City of Cheyenne to list the Cheyenne Auxiliary Pumping 
Station located at 1504 Dillon Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming for sale to the public as specified 
(Postponed from June 23, 2025).  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr. Moody. Mr. Segrave moved to amend by substitute dated July 11, 2025, 
seconded by Dr. Rinne. Mr. Laybourn moved to amend the substitute to add "An existing contract 
with an appropriate architectural firm may be used to estimate the cost of demolition as the contract 
permits. An estimate of costs and the identified source of funding shall be presented to the 
Governing Body prior to demolition” to the fourth “Therefore it be resolved” paragraph, seconded 
by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend the substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Dr. Emmons, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave voting 
“no.” Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
with the exception of  Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Roybal voting “no” . Main motion as  amended by 
substitute, as  amended carried . Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Roybal voting “no”. Public comments were made by: Milward 
Simpson, Historic Preservation Board, Kathy Scigliano, Stephanie Lowe, Historic Cheyenne Inc. 
and Suzanne Slattery . Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons , Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, 
Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. (#6479) 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the 2025-2027 City of Cheyenne Comprehensive Consolidated 
Plan and 2025 Annual Action Plan, as prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community 
Development Office and setting the public comment period and public hearings for the plans 
(CDBG GRANT). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6480) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for federal funding through the Transportation Alternatives Program administered by the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of constructing safety and intersection 
geometric improvements for the Pershing Boulevard and Windmill Road Intersection Project . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6481) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing that plans for the 15th Street Corridor Revitalization Project 
preserve the Cheyenne Gunslingers’ current location, layout, buildings and landscaping at West 
15th Street and Pioneer Avenue. Mr. Segrave there was no recommendation from Public Services 
Committee. Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion failed. Voting “no” – 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. 
Moody voting “yes”. Public comments were made by:  Victoria Pike, Roger Barn es and Jessica 
Forbis, Cheyenne Gun Slingers and Kathy Scigliano. Comments were made by the following 
4 
 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Moody, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded  by current city limits situate 
in east Cheyenne generally located south Dell Range Boulevard, west of Dry Creek, east of North 
College Drive, and north of Cheyenne Street – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, 
and Laramie County School District Number One for the School Resource Officers Program 
(Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and GLM Design Group, 
LLC, for the Clear Creek Inline Stormwater Detention Facility project (2023 -2026 Optional One 
Percent Sales Tax Fund and FEMA BRIC Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Right-of-Way License Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and First National Bank 
of Omaha for existing onsite parking in the rights -of-way of E. Pershing Boulevard and E. 23rd 
Street and an existing pole sign located in the right -of-way of Pershing Boul evard – referred to 
Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8098 between the City of Cheyenne and Fencetrack 
Inc. d/b/a Full Tilt Services for additional work associated with the Belvoir Ranch Trailhead and 
Access Roads project (Belvoir Ranch Recreation Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-19-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Z and 
Z Sealcoating for the 2025 Crack Seal Project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Motion 
(per consent agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $421,948.90). (#8213) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-20-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Asphalt Preservation, LLC, for the 2025 Surface Seal Project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund). Motion (per consent agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $2,308,936.65). (#8214) 
 
  Consideration of Bid #S -26-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Vintage Rail Restorations for the Cheyenne Railcar Project, Historic Exterior Restoration, Bid 
Package No. 2 (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund, General Fund Reserves and E conomic 
Development Administration Grant). Mr. Laybourn moved to accept the bid in an amount not to 
exceed $987,050.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Mr. Segrave moved to amend to use General Fund 
reserves for the bid Alternate, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. 
Moody voting “no”.  Main m otion as amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody voting “no”. 
Public comments were made by:  Exie Brown, Roger Barnes,  Cheyenne Gun Slingers, Tyler 
Garrett, Brian Bau, Dave Teubner, Brian Casey, Chad Willett and Alan Sheldon. Comments were 
5 
 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, 
Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. (#8215) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-27-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Mechanical Systems, Inc. for the Cheyenne Aquatic Center Pool Boiler Replacement Project. (One 
Time State Distribution Funds) Motion (per consent agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$138,100.00). (#8216) 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Critical Facilities 
Technology / Schneider Electric, for the Cheyenne Public Safety Center, Modular Power 
Revitalization Service (2012 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund and One Time State Distribution 
Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Request to extend the time period in which F & G Corporation d/b/a The Green Door has 
to become operational for an additional year for their retail license, located at 255 Storey Blvd., 
Cheyenne, Wyoming. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.   
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
  
Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting Cheyenne area charities will be held 
on Saturday, July 26, 2025 at 5:30 p.m. in the Cowboy Bistro, located beside the Rodeo Committee 
Cabin at Frontier Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the 2025 Cheyenne Frontier 
Days Rodeo (10% of proceeds go to bona fide charities).  
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 28, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
for a transfer of ownership of restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office 
for Pothos Business LLC d/b/a Bella Fuoco, 2115 Warren Ave., Cheyenne, WY (license currently 
held by Penstemon Business LLC d/b/a Bella Fuoco).   
 
The following member of the governing body made comment  under Other Business: Mr. 
Roybal. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 9:19 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 23, 2025 