MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-07-28 | CLIP_ID: 1026 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1026

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 28, 2025  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, Ken 
Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne (arrived at 6:33 via Zoom), Scott Roybal 
and Tom Segrave. Absent:  Jeff White. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk.  The pledge of 
allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on Ju ly 14, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a transfer of ownership of restaurant liquor 
license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Pothos Business LLC d/b/a Bella Fuoco, 
2115 Warren Ave., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by Penstemon Business LLC d/b/a Bella 
Fuoco). Public comment was made by: Brenna Kosowicz. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Roybal . There being no further comments 
or input and the purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public 
hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending and repealing multiple Sections of Chapter 
9.24, Weapons, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, relating to the sale, transport, discharge, possession and regulation of 
firearms to better con form to state statute and avoid duplication with federal law. Reporting for 
Public Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded 
by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4634) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in eastern Cheyenne, generally 
located south of Dell Range Boulevard, east of Dry Creek, west of Whitney Road, and north of 
Charles Street . Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons . 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comments were made by: Trish Morris and Mark 
Morris. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, 
Mayor Collins and Mr. Moody. 
2 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classifications of: AR - Agricultural Residential; MR - Medium-
Density Residential; HR -  High-Density Residential; CB -  Community Business; and, MUR -  
Mixed-Use Residential, for land annexed to the City of Cheyenne generally located south of Dell 
Range Boulevard, east of Dry Creek, west of Whitney Road, and north of Charles Street . Mr. 
Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons . Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of Interstate 80 and west of 
Roundtop Road from LI – Light Industrial to BP - Business Park. Mr. Segrave moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2025- 2026. Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Moody. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.   
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – To amend the Official Zoning Map of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code, for property located east of South Greeley Highway and north of 
Chalk Bluff Road in Cheyenne, Wyoming, changing the zoning classification from HI (Heavy 
Industrial) and AG (Agricultural) to BP (Business Park). Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded  by current city limits situate 
in east Cheyenne generally located south Dell Range Boulevard, west of Dry Creek, east of North 
College Drive, and north of Cheyenne Street. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6482) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to enter into a Memorandum of 
Understanding with Cheyenne LEADS to establish and administer a Large Projects Gap Finance 
Program, utilizing voter-approved 6th Penny Sales and Use Tax Funds for economic development 
– referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Segrave and Mr. White) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, 
and Laramie County School District Number One for the School Resource Officers Program 
(Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#8226) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and GLM Design Group, 
LLC, for the Clear Creek Inline Stormwater Detention Facility project (2023 -2026 Optional One 
Percent Sales Tax Fund and FEMA BRIC Grant) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $403,742.16). (#8227) 
 
3 
 
[CA] Right-of-Way License Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and First National Bank 
of Omaha for existing onsite parking in the rights -of-way of E. Pershing Boulevard and E. 23rd 
Street and an existing pole sign located in the right -of-way of Pershing Boul evard. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#8228) 
 
[CA] Fence Installation and Access License Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Richard Menkin for fence installation on City- owned property described as Lot 6, Block 3, 
Campstool Addition, 3rd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to Public 
Services Committee.  
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and TDSi - The Design 
Studio, inc., for the High Plains Arboretum: Greenhouse (State Parks and Cultural Resources 
Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8098 between the City of Cheyenne and Fencetrack 
Inc. d/b/a Full Tilt Services for additional work associated with the Belvoir Ranch Trailhead and 
Access Roads project (Belvoir Ranch Recreation Fund) . Mr. Laybourn moved to approve in an 
amount not to exceed $ 120,556.50, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins and Mr. 
Moody. (#8098) 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Critical Facilities 
Technology / Schneider Electric, for the Cheyenne Public Safety Center, Modular Power 
Revitalization Service (2012 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund and One Time State Distribution 
Funds). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $92,526.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -28-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Construction Specialists, Inc., for the Ice Slicer Building - Demolition and New Steel Structure 
(2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-3-25 for two (2) Mid- Size Trucks for the City of Cheyenne, 
Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department (Public Safety Infrastructure Fees)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-19-25 for furnishing Mid-Size SUVs and a Full-Size SUV for the 
City of Cheyenne Compliance, Community Recreation and Events and Cheyenne Fire Rescue 
Departments (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund and One Time State Distribution Funds) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Governing body comment was made by Dr. Aldrich on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
  
State of Wyoming Department of Audit Report and Results of the City credit card usage 
audit. Mr. Segrave moved to acknowledge receipt of the report, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comment was made by: 
4 
 
Brian Wilson and Suzanne Moreno, State of Wyoming, Department of Audit. Comment s were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Dr. Emmons. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 11, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute 
§15-1-402 exist for about 18.62 acres of land located northeast of the intersection of Frontier Mall 
Dr. and Rue Terre Avenue and west of Converse Avenue.  
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Dr. Emmons and Mr. Moody. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:45 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 2, 2025 