MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-08-25 | CLIP_ID: 1030 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1030

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 25, 2025  
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, Ken 
Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave  and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 11, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
northeast of the intersection of Frontier Mall Drive and Rue Terre Avenue and west of Converse 
Avenue. Reporting for Public Services, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of CB – Community Business for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located northeast of the intersection of Frontier Mall Drive and Rue Terre 
Avenue and west of Converse Avenue . Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located southwest of the intersection of 
Holland Court and Ridge Road from AG – Agricultural to NR -2 – Neighborhood Residential – 
Medium Density . Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White . 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating Section 10.24.200, Vehicle Mufflers, Excessive 
Smoke and Unreasonable Noise, and repealing Section 8.56.050, Motor Vehicle Mufflers, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to revise and enhance provisions governing 
vehicle mufflers and noise, to establish a graduated penalty structure for recurring offenses, and to 
make conforming amendments as specified . Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. White. Mr. Segrave moved to postpone t o September 8, 2025, seconded by Dr. 
Aldrich. Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public 
comment was made by: Howard Bower, Don Na th, Vic Contrato and Alan Sheldon. Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the filing of Applications with the Federal Transit 
Administration, an Operating Administration of the United States Department of Transportation, 
for Federal Transportation Assistance authorized by 49 U.S.C. Chapter 53; Title 23, United States 
Code, or other Federal Statutes administered by the F ederal Transit Administration. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6484) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of a Federal Mineral Royalty Capital 
Construction Account Grant application to the State Loan and Investment Board on Behalf of the 
City of Cheyenne for the purchase of a Type 6 Wildland Brush Truck with equipment – referred 
to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne  and Laramie County to 
provide transit service to the Laramie County Community College and the area immediately 
adjacent to the City of Cheyenne (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne Transit Program and the Wyoming Department 
of Health, Aging Division to provide transportation support services to persons 60 years or older 
under the Title III -B Program Grant for FY 2026 (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -2-26 for furnishing 4- yard, 6- yard, and 8- yard Front End 
Containers for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Kustom Koncepts, Casper, Wyoming in an amount not to exceed $95,564.00). 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-29-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and BCM, 
Inc. d/b/a Mortensen Electric, for the Dutcher Baseball Fields Lighting Installation (East Fields) 
project (One Time State Distribution Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid 
in an amount not to exceed $662,000.00). (#8240) 
 
Reappointments of Jennifer  Jo Barley-Dunning to the Housing and Community 
Development Advisory Council, and Aaron Bentley and Dominic Valdez to the Revolving Loan 
Fund Committee. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote 
(mayoral appointments). 
 
Appointments of Ashley Jeffrey and Lexi Leck emby to the Housing and Community 
Development Advisory Board; Stan Hartzheim to the Downtown Development Authority Board,  
and Scott VanHorn to the Tourism Promotion Joint Powers Board. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made that due to City offices being closed for the Labor Day holiday 
on Monday, September 1, 2025, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will 
instead be held in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via 
electronic conf erence meetings as follows: Public Services Committee will meet Tuesday, 
September 2, 2025 at Noon and Finance Committee will meet Wednesday, September 3, 2025 at 
Noon.  
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 8, 2025 at 6:00pm in  
City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute 
§15-1-402 exist for the City-initiated annexation of 35 parcels of land totaling roughly 20.19 acres 
comprised of various tracts of land and rights -of-way situate in east Cheyenne generally located 
south of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Dry Creek, east of North College Drive, and north of 
Cheyenne Street. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 8, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Rich Rich 
Up LLC d/b/a Wasabi Japanese Steakhouse, 4620 Grandview Ave. #205. 
 
Public comment was made by the following under Other Business: Don Edmunds. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins and Mr. Segrave.  
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:27 p.m. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 3, 2025 
 