MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-09-08 | CLIP_ID: 1032 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1032

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
September 8, 2025  
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, Ken 
Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal  and Jeff White. Absent: 
Tom Segrave. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda . Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 25, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15- 1-402 exist for the City- initiated annexation of 35 
parcels of land totaling roughly 20.19 acres comprised of various tracts of land and rights-of-way 
situate in east Cheyenne generally located south of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Dry Creek, east 
of North College Drive, and north of Cheyenne Street. There being no comments or input and the 
purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk's Office for Rich Rich Up LLC d/b/a Wasabi Japanese Steakhouse, 4620 Grandview 
Ave. #205. There being no further comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing having 
been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the  application to Finance 
Committee. Public comment was made by: Adriana Medina. Comment was made by the following 
member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
northeast of the intersection of Frontier Mall Drive and Rue Terre Avenue and west of Converse 
Avenue. Reporting for Public Services, Mr. White moved to approve on  third and final reading, 
seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body 
present. (#4640) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of CB – Community Business for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located northeast of the intersection of Frontier Mall Drive and Rue Terre 
Avenue and west of Converse Avenue . Mr. White moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. (#4641) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located southwest of the intersection of 
Holland Court and Ridge Road from AG – Agricultural to NR -2 – Neighborhood Residential – 
Medium Density . Mr. White moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Dr. 
Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body present. Public 
comment was made by: Jason Stephen, Bedrock Development. Comment w as made by the 
following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. (#4642) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating Section 10.24.200, Vehicle Mufflers, Excessive 
Smoke and Unreasonable Noise, and repealing Section 8.56.050, Motor Vehicle Mufflers, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to revise and enhance provisions governing 
vehicle mufflers and noise, to establish a graduated penalty structure for recurring offenses, and to 
make conforming amendments as specified . Mr. White  moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal. Mr. Moody moved to amend by striking number 7 on page 2. Motion to 
amend died due to lack of a second. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. Public comments were made by: Jessie Eblen, Cheyenne Cowboys and Cars, Holly 
Klink, Stephen Jacobson, Kathy Scigliano, Ryan Blue, Ethan Heinbuck and Victor Munoz, SEMA. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in eastern Cheyenne, generally 
located south of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Dry Creek, east of North College Drive, and north 
of Cheyenne Street – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classifications of: AR - Agricultural Residential; MR - Medium-
Density Residential; MUR -  Mixed-Use Residential and, MUB - Mixed-Use Business, for land 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne generally located south of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Dry 
Creek, east of North College Drive, and north of Cheyenne Street – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of a Federal Mineral Royalty Capital 
Construction Account Grant application to the State Loan and Investment Board on Behalf of the 
City of Cheyenne for the purchase of a Type 6 Wildland Brush Truck with equipment. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6485) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution No. 5545, requiring the submission of an updated 
five-year Capital Improvement Plan and establishing a three-year review and update cycle for the 
plan thereafter – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2025 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16- 4-112 & 16- 4-113 – referred to Finance Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate 
in east Cheyenne generally located south of Laramie Street, east of T -Bird Drive, north of East 
Lincolnway and US 30, and west of Parsons Place – referred to Public Services Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing staff to let bids for striping parking spaces and painting curbs 
in the Downtown area – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County to 
provide transit service to the Laramie County Community College and the area immediately 
adjacent to the City of Cheyenne . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $95,790.00). (#8245) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne Transit Program and the Wyoming Department 
of Health, Aging Division to provide transportation support services to persons 60 years or older 
under the Title III -B Program Grant for FY 2026 (Revenue to the City) . Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $65,512.00). (#8246) 
 
[CA] Lease agreement to allow Union Telephone Company to utilize the Parks Division 
Maintenance Shop to maintain a roof mount communications system to conduct 
telecommunications operations (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County 
to provide services to the Laramie County Juvenile Crisis Shelter (Revenue to the City) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County 
to provide probation/diversion services to youth appearing in both the Laramie County Circuit 
Court and the Municipal Court for the City of Cheyenne (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Drainage Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Microsoft Corporation 
for maintenance of a storm water detention pond – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8035 between the City of Cheyenne, Office of 
Youth Alternatives and Cheyenne Regional Medical Center (CRMC) for suicidal/homicidal 
ideation services to youth in Laramie County (Revenue to the City)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -1-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Construction Specialists, Inc., for the High Plains Arboretum -  Headhouse Roofing Replacement 
project (Wyoming State Parks and Cultural Resources – Arboretum Grant) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-23-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and S&L 
Industrial LLC, for the 2025 Thermoplastic Markings project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund and 2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Request to extend the time period in which 1734 Partners, LLC d/b/a 1734 Partners has to 
become operational for an additional year for their retail liquor license, located at 1734 
Meadowland Dr – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 22, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's 
Office for Apple Colorado, LLC, d/b/a Applebee's Neighborhood Grill & Bar, 1401 Dell Range 
Blvd., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by AB Cheyenne, WY, LLC d/b/a Applebee's 
Neighborhood Grill & Bar). 
 
Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting the Wyoming Breast Cancer Initiative 
will be held on October 18 - October 19, 2025 at Peppermill Bar, 1618 Stillwater Ave., Cheyenne, 
WY. (10% of proceeds go to the charity). 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Moody.  
 
Dr. Rinne moved to meet in executive session Pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4- 
405(a)(vii), seconded by M r. E squibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not 
open to the public and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of 
the executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially concl ude at the 
close of the executive session. The following staff members were in attendance: Amber Ash, 
Mayor’s Chief of Staff; John Brodie, City Attorney; Tom Cobb, City Engineer; Vicki Nemecek, 
Director of Public Works, Craig LaVoy, Deputy Director of Publ ic Works; Brenda Moureaux, 
Deputy City Treasurer and Kylie Soden, City Clerk. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:20 p.m. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 13, 2025 
 