MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-09-22 | CLIP_ID: 1034 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1034

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
September 22, 2025  
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, Ken 
Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal , Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 8, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Apple Colorado, LLC, d/b/a Applebee's 
Neighborhood Grill & Bar, 1401 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by AB 
Cheyenne, WY, LLC d/b/a Applebee's Neighborhood Grill & Bar). Public comment was made by: 
Brain Call, A rea Director for Applebee’s and Brian Proffitt, representative for Apple Colorado 
LLC. Comments were made by the following member s of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and 
Mr. Esquibel. There being no further  comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing 
having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating Section 10.24.200, Vehicle Mufflers, Excessive 
Smoke and Unreasonable Noise, and repealing Section 8.56.050, Motor Vehicle Mufflers, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to revise and enhance provisions governing 
vehicle mufflers and noise, to establish a graduated penalty structure for recurring offenses, and to 
make conforming amendments as specified . Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. 
Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Dr. Aldrich moved 
to amend Section 10.24.200 to add a subsection H, which includes a review of data after one year, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave voting “no” . Dr. Aldrich moved to  
amend Section 10.24.200 subsection H  to include a review period of not later than  October 31, 
2026, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Main motion as twice amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Public comments were made by: Phillip Boling, Andrew Aragon, Nick Dodson, 
Aaron Sim oni, Chris Shaw, Susann Robins, Cheyenne Crui se Nights, Nancy Sundin, Arianna 
Simoni, Lee Filer, Alan Sheldon, Ste phen Jacobson, Jacob Nor dmark, Ashton Doty, Ryan Blue, 
Joseph McCord and Bartimaeus Smith. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. 
Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. (#4643) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in eastern Cheyenne, generally 
located south of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Dry Creek, east of North College Drive, and north 
of Cheyenne Street. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White . 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was made by the 
following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classifications of: AR - Agricultural Residential; MR - Medium-
Density Residential; MUR -  Mixed-Use Residential and, MUB - Mixed-Use Business, for land 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne generally located south of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Dry 
Creek, east of North College Drive, and north of Cheyenne Street. Mr. Segrave moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 2.2.8, Assigned Zoning, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code to conform with the comprehensive revision of Laramie 
County Zoning Regulations – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 8.60.050, Weeds as a Nuisance, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to revise and clarify provisions and specify 
conditions under which vegetation does not constitute a nuisance  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification from P -  Public and MUB Mixed- Use Business 
Emphasis to CBD Central Business District for land located between O’Neil Avenue and Carey 
Avenue, north of West 19th St reet and south of West 22nd Street  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution No. 5545, requiring the submission of an updated 
five-year Capital Improvement Plan and establishing a three-year review and update cycle for the 
plan thereafter. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6486) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2025 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16 -4-112 & 16-4-113. Reporting for Finance Committee,  
Mr. Laybourn moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Esquibel . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no” . Comment was 
made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. (#6487) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate 
in east Cheyenne generally located south of Laramie Street, east of T -Bird Drive, north of East 
Lincolnway and US 30, and west of Parsons Place. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6488) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing staff to let bids for striping parking spaces and painting curbs 
in the Downtown area. Mr. Laybourn moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion failed due 
to a tie vote. Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Mr. White. 
Voting “no” – Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave . Public 
comments were made by : Rob Dickerson and Corey L oghry. Comments were made by the 
following member s of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing the Planning Department to review the Unified Development 
Code and provide a recommendation to the Governing Body regarding the allowance of a greater 
variety of trees and smaller tree sizes in new residential developments – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White) 
 
[CA] Lease agreement to allow Union Telephone Company to utilize the Parks Division 
Maintenance Shop to maintain a roof mount communications system to conduct 
telecommunications operations (Revenue to the City) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#8253) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County 
to provide services to the Laramie County Juvenile Crisis Shelter (Revenue to the City) . Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $91,237.00). (#8254) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County 
to provide probation/diversion services to youth appearing in both the Laramie County Circuit 
Court and the Municipal Court for the City of Cheyenne (Revenue to the Cit y). Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $82,194.00). (#8255) 
 
[CA] Drainage Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Microsoft Corporation 
for maintenance of a storm water detention pond. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#8256) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Plan One Architects, 
for the Municipal Building Renovation Design project (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund)  
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8035 between the City of Cheyenne, Office of 
Youth Alternatives and Cheyenne Regional Medical Center (CRMC) for suicidal/homicidal 
ideation services to youth in Laramie County (Revenue to the City). Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $98,458.00). (#8257) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -1-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Construction Specialists, Inc., for the High Plains Arboretum -  Headhouse Roofing Replacement 
project (Wyoming State Parks and Cultural Resources – Arboretum Grant). Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $245,700.00). (#8258) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-23-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and S&L 
Industrial LLC, for the 2025 Thermoplastic Markings project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund and 2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $438,060.00). (#8259) 
 
[CA]  Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and KONE, Inc., for the George 
Cox Parking Facility Elevator Modernization (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
  
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -2-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Richardson Construction, Inc., for the Depot Renovation Project (2021 Specific Purpose Option 
Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Request to extend the time period in which 1734 Partners, LLC d/b/a 1734 Partners has to 
become operational for an additional year for their retail liquor license, located at 1734 
Meadowland Dr. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Application for a bar & grill liquor license filed with the City Clerk's Office for Rich Rich 
Up LLC d/b/a Wasabi Japanese Steakhouse, 4620 Grandview Ave. #205.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. 
 
 Reappointment of Jennifer Godonis to the Cheyenne Housing Authority. Dr. Aldrich  
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointment). 
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held on October 13, 2025, at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, to receive comments and input for the Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and Project as 
required by Wyoming Statute §15-9-109.  
 
 Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting Special Olympics will be held on 
October 24 -  October 26, 2025 at VFW #1881, 2816 E. 7th Street, Cheyenne, WY  (10% of 
proceeds go to the charity). 
 
Public comment was made by the following under Other Business: Denise Patton. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Mr. 
Moody, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave.  
 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:35 p.m. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  October 1, 2025 
 