MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-10-13 | CLIP_ID: 1036 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1036

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
October 13, 2025  
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at the Laramie County School District #1 Board room and via electronic conference 
meeting. Present were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  
Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Absent: Dr. Mark Rinne . Also present: Luisa McGill, Deputy City Clerk. The pledge of 
allegiance was recited. 
 
 A moment of silence was held in honor of Mr. Roybal. Mayor Collins provided a brief 
tribute to his life of service. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Moody, item #13 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by 
Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, item #18(b) was 
removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Segrave moved to approve the remaining items, seconded 
by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 22, 2025. Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for the Bell Building 
Urban Renewal Plan and Project as required by Wyoming Statute §15-9-109. Comment was made 
by the following member of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn. There being no further comments 
or input and the purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public 
hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in eastern Cheyenne, generally 
located south of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Dry Creek, east of North College Drive, and north 
of Cheyenne Street. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present, with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Comments were made by 
the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody. (#4644) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classifications of: AR - Agricultural Residential; MR - Medium-
Density Residential; MUR -  Mixed-Use Residential and, MUB - Mixed-Use Business, for land 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne generally located south of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Dry 
Creek, east of North College Drive, and north of Cheyenne Street. Mr. Segrave moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present. (#4645) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 2.2.8, Assigned Zoning, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code to conform with the comprehensive revision of Laramie 
County Zoning Regulations. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 8.60.050, Weeds as a Nuisance, of 
the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to revise and clarify provisions and 
specify conditions under which vegetation does not constitute a nuisance . Mr. Segrave moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present. Comment was made by the following member of the governing 
body: Mr. Moody. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification from P -  Public and MUB Mixed- Use Business 
Emphasis to CBD Central Business District for land located between O’Neil Avenue and Carey 
Avenue, north of West 19th Street and south of West 22nd Street. Mr. Segrave moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Sections 1.4.3, 1.4.4, 5.1.4, 5.7.10 and 5.8.2 
of the Unified Development Code to define recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds, designate 
zone districts for their operation, create specific use standards for recreatio nal vehicle parks 
campgrounds, and revise manufactured home and parks regulations as necessary – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing the Planning Department to review the Unified Development 
Code and provide a recommendation to the Governing Body regarding the allowance of a greater 
variety of trees and smaller tree sizes in new residential developments . Mr. Segrave moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body 
present, with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. During discussion, Mr. Segrave raised a 
point of order that comments were not germane to the motion. Public comments were made by: 
Jeremy Hamilton, Phillip Bowling, President for the Cheyenne Board of Realtors, Nancy Loomis, 
Krista (no last name given), Mark Ellison, Manager of Cheyenne Urban Forest ry and Rooted in 
Cheyenne. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, 
Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave. (#6489) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Declaring a vacancy in the office of a City Council Member for Ward I 
and establishing procedures for filling said vacancy. Mr. Segrave advised  that the item was 
reviewed under other items at the October 6, 2025 Public Services meeting, therefore , provisions 
of Title 2 of the City Code have been met. Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White . 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#6490) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and the Bell Building 
Urban Renewal Project pursuant to Wyoming Statute § 15- 9-110 – referred to Public Services 
Committee (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2026 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
According to the Provisions of W.S. §§ 16- 4-112 & 16- 4-113 – referred to Finance Committee 
(Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Plan One Architects, 
for the Municipal Building Renovation Design project (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund). 
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$1,474,550.00, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present, with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Comments were made by 
the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons , Mr. 
Laybourn and Mr. Moody. (#8267) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ulteig, for the Dell 
Range Boulevard Traffic Signal Timing Improvements project (Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and KONE, Inc., for the George 
Cox Parking Facility Elevator Modernization (2019- 2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $207,420.00). (#8272)  
  
  Consideration of Bid #S -2-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Richardson Construction, Inc., for the Depot Renovation Project (2021 Specific Purpose Option 
Tax Fund). Mr. Laybourn moved to accept bid in an amount not to exceed $1,874,421.00, seconded 
by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. 
Laybourn and Mr. Segrave. (#8268) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of B id #S -3-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Cheeney Landscaping, for the High Plains Arboretum -  Irrigation project (WY State Parks and 
Cultural Resources – Arboretum Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -4-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Construction Specialists, Inc., for the Dunbar Concessions Restroom project  (2021 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Apple Colorado, LLC, d/b/a Applebee's 
Neighborhood Grill & Bar, 1401 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by AB 
Cheyenne, WY, LLC d/b/a Applebee's Neighborhood Grill & Bar).  Mr. Laybourn moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. Public comments were made by: Brian Proffitt and Brian Call. Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Esquibel.  
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held October 27, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. at 
the Laramie County School District #1 Boardroom, 2810 House Ave., Cheyenne, WY, and via 
electronic conference meeting, for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's 
Office for Redbones, LLC d/b/a HamBones Pizza, 415 W. 17th St. Ste. 170 & 180. 
 
Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting Make-A-Wish Wyoming will be held 
November 7 -  November 8, 2025 at Red Lion Hotel and Conference Center, 204 W. Fox Farm 
Rd., Cheyenne, WY. (10% of proceeds go to the charity). 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White.  
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:17 p.m. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Luisa McGill, 
        Deputy City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  October 22, 2025 
 