MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-10-27 | CLIP_ID: 1038 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1038

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
October 27, 2025  
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at the Laramie County School District #1 Board room and via electronic conference 
meeting. Present were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  
Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Tom 
Segrave and Jeff White.  Also present: Kylie Soden , City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was 
recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. White and Mr. Moody, item #11 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by 
Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, items #14(a) and 
#15(a) were removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Segrave  moved to approve  the remaining 
items, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 13, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk's Office for Redbones, LLC d/b/a HamBones Pizza, 415 W. 17th St. Ste. 170 & 
180. Public comment was made by: Jason Hammer, HamBones Pizza. Comment was made by the 
following member of the governing body:  Dr. Rinne. There being no further comments or input 
and the purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing 
and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 2.2.8, Assigned Zoning, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code to conform with the comprehensive revision of Laramie 
County Zoning Regulations. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4646) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 8.60.050, Weeds as a Nuisance, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to revise and clarify provisions and specify 
conditions under which vegetation does not constitute a nuisance. Mr. Segrave moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. (#4647) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification from P -  Public and MUB Mixed- Use Business 
Emphasis to CBD Central Business District for land located between O’Neil Avenue and Carey 
Avenue, north of West 19th Street and south of West 22nd Street. Mr. Segrave moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. (#4648) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Sections 1.4.3, 1.4.4, 5.1.4, 5.7.10 and 5.8.2 
of the Unified Development Code to define recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds, designate 
zone districts for their operation, create specific use standards for recreational vehicle parks 
campgrounds, and revise manufactured home and parks regulations as necessary. Mr. Segrave 
advised there was no recommendation from Public Services Committee. Mr. Segrave moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Dr. Rinne 
and Mr. White. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving the Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and the Bell Building 
Urban Renewal Project pursuant to Wyoming Statute § 15 -9-110. Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with 
the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comments were made by: Amy Surdam and 
Wendy Volk. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, 
Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody. (#6491) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2026 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
According to the Provisions of W.S. §§ 16-4-112 & 16-4-113. Reporting for Finance Committee, 
Mr. Laybourn moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody. (#6492) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Memorandum of Understanding with 
participating counties, cities, and towns, regarding the allocation of impact assistance funds 
associated with the Chugwater Energy Project Application before the Industrial Siting Counci l. 
Mr. Laybourn advised that the item was reviewed under other items at the October 21, 2025 
Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of the City Code have been met. Mr. 
Laybourn advised there was no recommendation from Finance Committee. Mr. Laybourn moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comments were made by: Jill Kaufman 
and Wendy Volk. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Dr. Rinne. 
(#6493) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ulteig, for the Dell 
Range Boulevard Traffic Signal Timing Improvements project (Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Mr. 
Laybourn moved to approve  in an amount not to exceed $162,399.00, seconded by Mr. Moody. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody. (#8276) 
 
[CA]  Wyoming Rural Public Transit program FY 2026 Subrecipient agreement between the City 
of Cheyenne Transit Department and Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government 
Coordinating Office – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  Consideration of B id #S -3-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Cheeney Landscaping, for the High Plains Arboretum -  Irrigation project (WY State Parks and 
Cultural Resources – Arboretum Grant). Mr. Laybourn moved to approve in an amount not to 
exceed $236,641.00, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Dr. Rinne.  (#8277) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -4-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Construction Specialists, Inc., for the Dunbar Concessions Restroom project (2021 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$1,155,700.00). (#8278) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -3-26 for furnishing one (1) new 2025 -2026 30 Ton Articulated 
Dump Truck for the City of Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste Fund)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-4-26 for furnishing one (1) new 2025-2026 Hydraulic Excavator 
for the City of Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-5-26 for furnishing one (1) new Backhoe Loader for the City of 
Cheyenne Cemetery (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -6-26 for furnishing ten (10) new Four -Door 2025/2026 Model 
Utility Police Interceptors (2023 -2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-7-26 for furnishing one (1) new 2025- 2026 3/4 Ton, Crew Cab, 
Full Size Pickup Truck, 4 X 4 with a 6.75 FT Box (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund and 
General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Comments were made by the following members of the governing body on the Voucher 
Report: Mayor Collins, Mr. Moody and Mr. White. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 10, 2025 at 6:00pm at 
the Laramie County School District #1 Boardroom, 2810 House Ave., Cheyenne, WY, and via 
electronic conference meeting. Should the City Municipal Building reopen by this date the meeting 
will take place in City Council Chambers at 2101 O'Neil Avenue. The Public Hearing is to 
determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 
exist for the City-initiated annexation of 20 parcels of land totaling roughly 13.64 acres comprised 
of various tracts of land and rights -of-way situate in east Cheyenne generally located south of 
Laramie Street, east of T -Bird Drive, north of East Lincolnway and US 30, and west of Parsons 
Place. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 10, 2025 at 6:00pm at 
the Laramie County School District #1 Boardroom, 2810 House Ave., Cheyenne, WY, and via 
electronic conference meeting. Should the City Municipal Building reopen by this date the meeting 
will tak e place in City Council Chambers at 2101 O'Neil Avenue. The Public Hearing is to 
determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 
exist for the Owner-initiated annexation of 3 parcels of land totaling roughly 20.41 acres located 
northwest of the intersection of  Converse Ave and East Carlson St. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Mr. 
Esquibel and Mr. White. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:13 p.m. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  November 1, 2025 
 