MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-11-10 | CLIP_ID: 1040 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1040

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
November 10, 2025  
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at the Laramie County School District #1 Board room and via electronic conference 
meeting. Present were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  
Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Tom 
Segrave and Jeff White.  Also present: Kylie Soden , City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was 
recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Mr. Esquibel moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 27, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15- 1-402 exist for the City- initiated annexation of 20 
parcels of land totaling roughly 13.64 acres comprised of various tracts of land and rights-of-way 
situate in east Cheyenne generally located south of Laramie Street, east of T -Bird Drive, north of 
East Lincolnway and US 30, and west of Parsons Place. Comment was made by the following 
member of the governing body: Mayor Collins. P ublic comment was made by: Rex Helm. There 
being no further comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor 
Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for the Owner-initiated annexation of 3 
parcels of land totaling roughly 20.41 acres located northwest of the intersection of  Converse Ave 
and East Carlson St. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mayor Collins. There being no further comments or input and the purpose of the 
public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Sections 1.4.3, 1.4.4, 5.1.4, 5.7.10 and 5.8.2 
of the Unified Development Code to define recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds, designate 
zone districts for their operation, create specific use standards for recreational vehicle parks 
campgrounds, and revise manufactured home and parks regulations as necessary. Reporting for 
Public Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded 
by Dr. Emmons. Mr. Segrave moved to amend by substitute dated October 30, 2025, seconded by 
Mr. White. Mr. Segrave moved to amend the substitute by removing on page 2 of Attachment A, 
Community Business Zone ( CB) as an approved zone for campgrounds and recreational parks, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend the substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. Mr. Segrave moved to amend the substitute on page 26, subsection (e), to 
strike entirely and insert  “At least one  (1) fenced p et area shall be provided for every ac re of 
developed site. Each fenced pet area shall be at least seven hundred (700) square feet in area. For 
sites larger than one (1) acre, the required pet areaa may be combined into one (1) or more larger 
enclosures, provided the total fenced area equals or exceeds  seven hundred (700) square feet per 
acre of developed site”, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion to amend the substitute carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. Motion to amend by substitute as twice amended 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Main motion as amended by substitute 
as twice amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Rinne, and Mr. Segrave. 
(#4649) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in eastern Cheyenne, generally 
located south of Laramie Street, east of T -Bird Drive, north of East Lincolnway and US 30, and 
west of Parsons Place – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classifications of: MR – Medium-Density Residential; MUB – 
Mixed-Use Business; and CB – Community Business, for land annexed to the City of Cheyenne 
generally located south of Laramie Street, east of T-Bird Drive, north of East Lincolnway and US 
30, and west of Parsons Place – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of Storey Boulevard, west of Converse Avenue, and north of East Carlson Street  – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG – Agricultural for land annexed to the City 
of Cheyenne located south of Storey Boulevard, west of Converse Avenue, and north of East 
Carlson Street – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of Storey Boulevard, west of 
Converse Avenue, and north of East Carlson Street from AG – Agricultural and CB – Community 
Business to NR –3 – Neighborhood Residential – High Density – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending specified sections within Chapter 8.68, 
Camping on Public Property, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
increase the associated penalties and require removal from the premises if in violation of the code 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 5.76.050, Residential Door -to-Door 
Solicitor Restrictions -Prohibited Practices, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, to expand the types of soliciting prohibited at a residence with a posted ‘No Solicitors’ 
notice, to am end the permissible hours for soliciting, and to clarify existing code  – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting Connect 2050: Update to the Metropolitan Transportation and 
Future Land Use Plan of PlanCheyenne for the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Urban Area – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts pursuant 
to Wyoming Statute § 16-4-502 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the execution of an Outside User Water Service Agreement 
between the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities and Wyoming King Gold Mining Company, Inc., 
for Section 36, Township 14 North, Range 70 West, of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application to the Wyoming Business 
Council under the Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program on behalf of the City of 
Cheyenne for a Community Readiness Grant for the purpose of purchasing 8.37 acres of land for 
the development of affordable housing – referred to Finance Committee . (Sponsor – Mr. 
Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Grant to complete the Primary Pathway at the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens in 
Lions Park – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WYDOT for a Wyoming Rural Public 
Transportation Grant to assist in providing local match for operating funds for the Transit program 
for Fiscal Year 2025 (Revenue to the City). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $300,000.00). (#8283) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor, A Children’s Justice Center, to 
provide a safe and secure environment for families who have been affected by abuse  (General 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Volunteers of America Northern Rockies, 
Harmony House Social Detox Center, to provide social, non- medical alcohol and drug 
detoxification services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County Senior Services, Inc.,  to 
provide supportive Senior Services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HDR   Engineering, 
Inc., for the Compost Operations Plan project (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -3-26 for furnishing one (1) new 2025 -2026 30 Ton Articulated 
Dump Truck for the City of Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accepted bid from Wyoming Machinery Company in an amount not to exceed 
$501,541.25).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-4-26 for furnishing one (1) new 2025-2026 Hydraulic Excavator 
for the City of Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Wyoming Machinery Company in an amount not to exceed $334,054.50). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-5-26 for furnishing one (1) new Backhoe Loader for the City of 
Cheyenne Cemetery ( 2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund ). Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accepted bid from Wyoming Machinery Company in an amount not to exceed 
$174,437.50). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -6-26 for furnishing ten (10) new Four -Door 2025/2026 Model 
Utility Police Interceptors (2023 -2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Duval Ford in an amount not to exceed $662,550.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-7-26 for furnishing one (1) new 2025- 2026 3/4 Ton, Crew Cab, 
Full Size Pickup Truck, 4 X 4 with a 6.75 FT Box (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund and 
General Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Fremont Motor Company 
in an amount not to exceed $102,083.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-9-26 for the surplus sale of evidence seized firearms (Revenue to 
the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-10-26 for furnishing Three (3) new Fairway Mowers for the City 
of Cheyenne Golf Division (Golf Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Bar & grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Redbones, LLC 
d/b/a HamBones Pizza, 415 W. 17th St. Ste. 170 & 180. Mr. Laybourn moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Dr. 
Rinne. 
 
 Appointment of Lawrence J. Wolfe to fill a vacancy on City Council Ward I, for the 
unexpired term of the late Scott Roybal. Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. Public comment was made by: Tamara 
Trujillo. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Moody and Mr. White 
 
Dr. Rinne moved to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4-
405(a)(iii), seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open to the public 
and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the executive 
session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close of the 
executive session. The following staff members were in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s Chief 
of Staff; John Brodie, City Attorney;  Tom Cobb, City Engineer; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer 
and Kylie Soden, City Clerk. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:18 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  November 19, 2025 
 