MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-11-24 | CLIP_ID: 1042 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1042

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
November 24, 2025  
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Tom Segrave , Jeff White  and 
Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
ADMINISTRATION OF OATH OF OFFICE to Lawrence J. Wolfe – City Council Ward 
I, by Mayor Patrick Collins.  
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Moody, item #16 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by 
Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support re ceived by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, items  #15 and 
#21(a) were removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Segrave  moved to approve  the remaining 
items, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body, 
with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 10, 2025. Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in eastern Cheyenne, generally 
located south of Laramie Street, east of T -Bird Drive, north of East Lincolnway and US 30, and 
west of Parsons Place. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classifications of: MR – Medium-Density Residential; MUB – 
Mixed-Use Business; and CB – Community Business, for land annexed to the City of Cheyenne 
generally located south of Laramie Street, east of T-Bird Drive, north of East Lincolnway and US 
30, and west of Parsons Place. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. 
Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of Storey Boulevard, west of Converse Avenue, and north of East Carlson Street . 
Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG – Agricultural for land annexed to the City 
of Cheyenne located south of Storey Boulevard, west of Converse Avenue, and north of East 
Carlson Street. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of Storey Boulevard, west of 
Converse Avenue, and north of East Carlson Street from AG – Agricultural and CB – Community 
Business to NR–3 – Neighborhood Residential – High Density. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending specified sections within Chapter 8.68, 
Camping on Public Property, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
increase the associated penalties and require removal from the premises if in violation of the code. 
Mr. Segrave advised there was no recommendation from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Segrave 
moved to approve on second reading. The item died due to a lack of a second.  
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 5.76.050, Residential Door -to-Door 
Solicitor Restrictions -Prohibited Practices, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, to expand the types of soliciting prohibited at a residence with a posted ‘No Solicitors’ 
notice, to amend the permissible hours for soliciting, and to clarify existing code . Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. 
Mr. Laybourn moved to amend Section E, on page 2, to replace 7:00 a.m. with 8:00 a.m., seconded 
by Mr. Moody.  Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Mr. 
Laybourn moved to amend Section B , #5 to strike “and pamphleteering”, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave. Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. White 
and Mr. Wolfe . Voting “no” -  Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave . Mr. 
Esquibel moved to amend Section B, items #4 and #5 by deleting in their entirety , seconded by 
Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend failed. Voting “yes” – Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Segrave and  
Mr. Wolfe. Voting “no” - Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. White. Main 
motion as twice amended failed. Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. White. 
Voting “no” – Mayor Collins,  Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Segrave and Mr. 
Wolfe. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Dr. 
Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Wolfe. Public comments were made 
by: Seth Lloyd and Lee Filer. 
 
 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting Connect 2050: Update to the Metropolitan Transportation and 
Future Land Use Plan of PlanCheyenne for the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Urban Area . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6494) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts pursuant 
to Wyoming Statute § 16-4-502. Mr. Laybourn moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. White. 
(#6495) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the execution of an Outside User Water Service Agreement 
between the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities and Wyoming King Gold Mining Company, Inc., 
for Section 36, Township 14 North, Range 70 West, of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming. 
Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Mr. Segrave moved to amend by substitute 
dated November 17, 2025, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. Main motion as amended by substitute carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. 
Segrave. (#6496) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application to the Wyoming Business 
Council under the Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program on behalf of the City of 
Cheyenne for a Community Readiness Grant for the purpose of purchasing 8.37 acres of land for 
the development of affordable housing. Mr. Laybourn moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Wolfe . 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body, with the exception of Mr. 
Moody voting “no” . Public comment was made by: J arom Johnson, Wasatch Group/Kamaka  
Responsible Development LLC. Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne , Mr. Segrave and Mr. 
Wolfe. (#6497) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Grant to complete the Primary Pathway at the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens in 
Lions Park. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6498) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing a three percent (3%) cost-of-living salary adjustment for all 
full-time and part -time employees of the City of Cheyenne (Various City Funds) – referred to 
Finance Committee (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn). 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Repealing Resolution No. 6479 and directing the relisting of the 
Cheyenne Auxiliary Pumping Station located at 1504 Dillon Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming for 
sale or lease, with revised terms to facilitate redevelopment and community benefit – referred to 
Finance Committee (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Moody and Mr. White).  
 
  
 
 
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor, A Children’s Justice Center, to 
provide a safe and secure environment for families who have been affected by abuse  (General 
Fund). Mr. Laybourn moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $20,000.00, seconded by Mr. 
Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment was 
made by: Lynn Huyler, Director of Safe Harbor. Comments were made by the following members 
of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn. (#8288) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Volunteers of America Northern Rockies, 
Harmony House Social Detox Center, to provide social, non- medical alcohol and drug 
detoxification services (General Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $136,875.00). (#8289) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County Senior Services, Inc.,  to 
provide supportive Senior Services (General Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $100,000.00). (#8290) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HDR   Engineering, 
Inc., for the Compost Operations Plan project  (Solid Waste Fund) . Mr. Laybourn moved to 
approve in an amount not to exceed $93,580.00, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and 
Mr. Moody voting “no”. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody. (#8291) 
 
[CA]  Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8046 between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres and 
Associates for the 19th Street Drainage and Intersection Improvements Project for additional storm 
sewer design, additional roadway design on Missile Drive and the addition of lighting on the 19th 
Street bridge (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8213 between the City of Cheyenne and Z&Z Seal 
Coating for the 2025 Crack Seal Project for additional crack seal and remaining work (2023-2026 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-9-26 for the surplus sale of evidence seized firearms (Revenue to 
the City). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Black Rain Ordnance,  Inc. in 
an amount not to exceed $30,030.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-10-26 for furnishing Three (3) new Fairway Mowers for the City 
of Cheyenne Golf Division (Golf Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from 
LL Johnson Distributing in an amount not to exceed $293,900.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -5-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Big 
Horn Contracting, LLC, for the High Plains Arboretum - Headhouse, Greenhouse, and Lath House 
Renovation (WY State Parks and Cultural Resources – Arboretum Grant) – referred to Finance 
Committee.  
 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-6-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Rockies 
Environmental and Demolition Services, for the High Plains Arboretum – Greenhouse and Lath 
House Demolition and Abatement (WY State Parks and Cultural Resources – Arboretum Grant) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Report detailing Planning and Development Department findings in accordance with City 
Council Resolution No. 6489 regarding recommended amendments to the UDC that better balance 
the City’s long-term tree canopy and environmental goals with the practical ne eds of smaller lot 
development and housing affordability considerations. Mr. Segrave moved to acknowledge 
receipt, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented.  
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 8, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s 
Office for Cheyenne GS, LLC d/b/a Hi Market Cheyenne, 215 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY 
(license currently held by Scooters Scoreboard, LLC d/b/a Scooters Scoreboard Bar) 
 
Public comment was made by the following under Other Business : Katie Brady, Director 
of Laramie County Senior Services. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody and Mr. White. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:53 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 4, 2025 
 