MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-12-08 | CLIP_ID: 1044 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1044

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 8, 2025  
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich (via Zoom), Dr. Kathy 
Emmons, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne (via Zoom, joining at 6:02 
p.m.), Tom Segrave (via Zoom), Jeff White and Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City 
Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Moody, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Laybourn, item #22(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. White 
moved to approve the remaining items, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 24, 2025. Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Cheyenne GS, LLC d/b/a Hi Market Cheyenne, 
215 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by Scooters Scoreboard, LLC d/b/a 
Scooters Scoreboard Bar). Public comment was made by: Sukhpreet Bajwa, Hi Market Cheyenne. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Esquibel, Dr. Rinne 
and Mr. Wolfe. There being no further  comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing 
having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in eastern Cheyenne, generally 
located south of Laramie Street, east of T -Bird Drive, north of East Lincolnway and US 30, and 
west of Parsons Place. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Emmons moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Mr. 
Moody. (#4650) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classifications of: MR – Medium-Density Residential; MUB – 
Mixed-Use Business; and CB – Community Business, for land annexed to the City of Cheyenne 
generally located south of Laramie Street, east of T-Bird Drive, north of East Lincolnway and US 
30, and west of Parsons Place. Dr. Emmons moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4651) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of Storey Boulevard, west of Converse Avenue, and north of East Carlson Street . 
Dr. Emmons moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. 
Moody. (#4652) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG – Agricultural for land annexed to the City 
of Cheyenne located south of Storey Boulevard, west of Converse Avenue, and north of East 
Carlson Street. Dr. Emmons moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4653) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of Storey Boulevard, west of 
Converse Avenue, and north of East Carlson Street from AG – Agricultural and CB – Community 
Business to NR –3 – Neighborhood Residential –  High Density. Dr. Emmons moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. (#4654) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for January 2026 until the end of the Fiscal 
Year 2026 – referred to Finance Committee (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing a three percent (3%) cost-of-living salary adjustment for all 
full-time and part-time employees of the City of Cheyenne (Various City Funds) . Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Wolfe . Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Emmons, Mr. Moody and Mr. Wolfe. (#6499) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Repealing Resolution No. 6479 and directing the relisting of the 
Cheyenne Auxiliary Pumping Station located at 1504 Dillon Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming for 
sale or lease, with revised terms to facilitate redevelopment and community benefit. Mr. Laybourn 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Moody. Mr. Laybourn moved to postpone to December 22, 
2025, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Public comment was made by: Stephanie Lowe, Historic Cheyenne Inc. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins, Mr. 
Laybourn and Mr. Moody.  
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Designating specified local banks as depositories for municipal funds – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Airport 
View, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of Townsend Place and north 
of and adjacent to Dell Range Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Scenic 
Development, 7th Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of Storey 
Boulevard, west of Converse Avenue, and north of East Carlson Street) – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded by current city limits situate 
in North Cheyenne, generally located south of Storey Boulevard, east of Powderhouse Road, north 
of Dell Range Boulevard, and west of Ridge Road – referred to Public Services Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Golden 
Meadows 2nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of Connie 
Drive, north of Dell Range Boulevard, and east of Golden Meadows Lane)  – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and certain landowners 
regarding annexation of property south of Storey Boulevard, west of Converse Avenue, north of 
Dell Range Boulevard and east of Powderhouse Road – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding by and between Laramie County, the City of Cheyenne, 
the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities, and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Board of Health 
regarding the management of the ERSI Enterprise Agreement (Various City Funds)  – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8046 between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres and 
Associates for the 19th Street Drainage and Intersection Improvements Project for additional storm 
sewer design, additional roadway design on Missile Drive and the addition of lighting on the 19th 
Street bridge (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in 
an amount not to exceed $63,150.00). (#8046) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8213 between the City of Cheyenne and Z&Z Seal 
Coating for the 2025 Crack Seal Project for additional crack seal and remaining work (2023-2026 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$189,000.00). (#8213) 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S -5-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Big 
Horn Contracting, LLC, for the High Plains Arboretum - Headhouse, Greenhouse, and Lath House 
Renovation (WY State Parks and Cultural Resources – Arboretum Grant). Mr. Laybourn moved 
to accept the bid in an amount not to exceed $2,366,424.00, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was made by the following 
member of the governing body: Mr. Moody. (#8296) 
 Consideration of Bid #S-6-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Rockies 
Environmental and Demolition Services, for the High Plains Arboretum – Greenhouse and Lath 
House Demolition and Abatement (WY State Parks and Cultural Resources – Arboretum Grant). 
Mr. Laybourn moved to accept the bid in an amount not to exceed $148,175.00, seconded by Mr. 
White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was made 
by the following member of the governing body: Mayor Collins. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Motorola Solutions for ten 
(10) Motorola Mobile Radios for the Cheyenne Police Department (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Axon Enterprise, Inc. for ten 
(10) In-Car Camera Systems for the Cheyenne Police Department (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16-4-404(b) 
to be held December 10, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, 
Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting to discuss and gather public input regarding 
proposed 6th Penny projects.  
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 22, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting for amendments to the City’s 2025- 2027 Consolidated Plan and 2025 Program Year 
Annual Action Pla n for the Housing & Community Development Division’s Community 
Development Block Grant Program.  
  
Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting Make-A-Wish Wyoming will be held 
January 30 - January 31, 2026 at Red Lion Hotel and Conference Center, 204 W. Fox Farm Rd., 
Cheyenne, WY (10% of proceeds go to the charity). 
 
Public comment was made by the following under Other Business: Jason Sanchez, Director 
of Community Recreation & Events.  
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business : 
Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. White. 
 
Mr. Laybourn moved to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4-
405(a)(vii), seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open to the public 
and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the executive 
session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close of the 
executive session. The following staff members wer e in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s Chief 
of Staff; David Hopkinson, Deputy City Attorney;  Robin Lockman, City Treasurer and Kylie 
Soden, City Clerk. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:12 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 12, 2025 
 