MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-12-22 | CLIP_ID: 1048 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1048

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 22, 2025  
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich (via Zoom), Dr. Kathy 
Emmons, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Tom Segrave , Jeff White and Lawrence 
Wolfe. Absent: Dr. Mark Rinne. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance 
was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda . Mayor Collins declared a conflict  of interest related to agenda 
item #11 and abstained from voting on the Consent Agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and 
pursuant to support received by Mr. Moody and Mr. Segrave, item #18(b) was removed from the 
Consent Agenda. Mr. Segrave moved to approve  the remaining items , seconded by Mr. White. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mayor Collins who did not vote. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 8, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on December 10, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for amendments to the City’s 2025- 2027 
Consolidated Plan and 2025 Program Year Annual Action Plan for the Housing & Community 
Development Division’s Community Development Block Grant Program. Public comment was 
made by: Wendy Soto, Housing & Community Development Advisory Council. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins , Dr. Emmons and Mr. 
Esquibel. There being no further comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing having 
been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for January 2026 until the end of the Fiscal 
Year 2026. Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. 
 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating Chapter 1.28, Administrative Inspection 
Warrants, establishing authority for their issuance, and amending the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to authorize certain city officials, as specified, to apply for administrative 
inspection warrants – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave 
and Mr. White) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Repealing Resolution No. 6479 and directing the relisting of the 
Cheyenne Auxiliary Pumping Station located at 1504 Dillon Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming for 
sale or lease, with revised terms to facilitate redevelopment and community benefit. Mr. Laybourn 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Moody. Mr. Segrave moved to amend by substitute dated 
December 22, 2025, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. Main motion as amended by substitute carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comment was made by: Maren 
Kallas, Historic Cheyenne Inc. and Milward Simpson, Cheyenne Historic Preservation Board.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave. (#6500) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Designating specified local banks as depositories for municipal funds . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6501) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Airport 
View, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of Townsend Place and north 
of and adjacent to Dell Range Boulevard). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6502) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Scenic 
Development, 7th Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of Storey 
Boulevard, west of Converse Avenue, and north of East Carlson Street) . Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Mr. Segrave moved 
to amend C ondition (a) to remove the Planning Commission requirement for external access 
easements and revert back to the staff’s original recommendation, seconded by Mr. White. Motion 
to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Main motion as 
amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mr. Moody voting “no”.  Public comment was made by: Jaden Smith, Wasatch Property 
Development. (#6503) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded by current city limits situate 
in North Cheyenne, generally located south of Storey Boulevard, east of Powderhouse Road, north 
of Dell Range Boulevard, and west of Ridge Road. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6504) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Golden 
Meadows 2nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of Connie 
Drive, north of Dell Range Boulevard, and east of Golden Meadows Lane) . Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6505) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving a sponsorship by Bison Beverage for Cheyenne Frontier Days 
events occurring July 17 through July 26, 2026, July 23 through August 1, 2027, and July 21 
through July 30 2028 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the amended 2025- 2027 City of Cheyenne Comprehensive 
Consolidated Plan and the amended 2025 Annual Action Plan, as prepared by the Cheyenne 
Housing and Community Development Office, and setting the public comment period and public 
hearings for the plans – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and certain landowners 
regarding annexation of property south of Storey Boulevard, west of Converse Avenue, north of 
Dell Range Boulevard and east of Powderhouse Road. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#8299) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding by and between Laramie County, the City of Cheyenne, 
the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities, and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Board of Health 
regarding the management of the ESRI Enterprise Agreement (Various City Funds). Mr. Laybourn 
moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $36,185.00, seconded by Mr. Moody. Mr. Laybourn 
moved to amend by substitute dated December 18, 2025, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to 
amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body present. Main 
motion as amended by substitute  carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. (#8300) 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and RingCentral, LLC for providing cloud based 
enterprise telecom services for all City departments and divisions – referred to Finance Committee. 
(General Fund) 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Motorola Solutions for ten 
(10) Motorola Mobile Radios for the Cheyenne Police Department (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $82,615.90). 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Axon Enterprise, Inc. for ten 
(10) In-Car Camera Systems for the Cheyenne Police Department (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $96,974.60). 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -7-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Pole 
Mountain Electric, Inc., for the Cheyenne Dunbar Field Light Installation project  – referred to 
Finance Committee. (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund, Development Impact Fees and Rec 
Mill Grant) 
 
 Transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for Cheyenne GS, LLC d/b/a Hi Market Cheyenne, 215 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY (license 
currently held by Scooters Scoreboard, LLC d/b/a Scooters Scoreboard Bar). Mr. Laybourn 
advised there was no recommendation from Finance Committee. Mr. Laybourn moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion failed. Voting “ no” – all members of the governing body  
present. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Mayor Collins.   
 
 Reappointments of Patrick Vann and Patrick Bustos to the Historic Preservation Board; 
Amy Hernandez and Robert Mathia to the Planning Commission; Nick Pickering, Ray Fertig Jr., 
and Julie Goode to the Building Code Board of Appeals; Jeffie Wiggins -McMullen to the Fire 
Civil Service Commission; Carla Winkler to the Police Civil Service Commission; Patti Riesland, 
Julie Tucker and Michelle Woerner to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities; William 
Beaman to the City/County Joint Powers Board for Frontier Park Improvements; and Brian Casey, 
Ryan Gertsch and Travis Shaffer to the Contractor Licensing Board.  Mr. Segrave moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mayor Collins  who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Mayor Collins. 
 
 Appointments of Jeff White to the Downtown Development Authority Board; Brittany 
Wardle to the City/County Board of Health; Charity Campfield to the Board of Adjustment; Joseph 
Ramos to the Housing and Community Development Board; and John Burdick to the H istoric 
Preservation Board. Dr. Emmons declared a conflict of interest and abstained from voting on the 
item. Mr. Wolfe moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Collins  who did not vote 
(mayoral appointments) and Dr. Emmons who also did not vote. 
  
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held January 12, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute 
§ 15-1-402 exist for the City- initiated annexation of 26 parcels of land totaling roughly 279.98 
acres comprised of various tracts of land situate in north Cheyenne generally located south of 
Storey Boulevard, east of Powderhouse Road, north of Dell Range Boulevard, and west of Ridge 
Road. 
 
 Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held January 12, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council 
Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, for a 
transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Ace’s 
Range LLC d/b/a Ace’s Range, 1505 Pioneer Ave., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by F & 
G Corporation d/b/a The Green Door). 
 
The following announcement was introduced under Other Business: Announcement of a 
Public Hearing to be held January 12, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil 
Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, for a transfer of ownership of 
retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Westby Edge LLC d/b/a 
Westby Edge Brewing, 714 W. 20th St., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by Scooters 
Scoreboard Inc.).    
 
Public comment was made by the following under Other Business:  Natalie Lanzi and 
Brandon Swain. 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Mr. White and 
Mr. Wolfe.  
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:56 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 2, 2026 
 