MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-01-12 | CLIP_ID: 1050 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1050

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 12, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne (via Zoom), Tom Segrave, Jeff White 
and Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, item #22 (a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Esquibel 
moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 22, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Election of C ity Council President for 2026. Mayor Collins stated that, pursuant to City 
Code, the mayor conducts the election for Council President but does not cast a vote. Mr. Esquibel 
moved to nominate and elect Mr. Segrave as City Council President, seconded by Mr. White. Dr. 
Aldrich moved to cease nominations, seconded by Mr. W olfe. Motion to cease nominations 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Motion  to elect Mr. Segrave as City 
Council President carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Mayor Collins who did not vote.  
 
Election of City Council Vice-President for 2026 . Mayor Collins stated that, pursuant to 
City Code, the mayor conducts the election for Council Vice- President but does not cast a vote.  
Dr. Emmons moved to nominate and elect Mr. Laybourn as City Council Vice-President, seconded 
by Mr. Moody. Dr. Aldrich moved to cease nominations, seconded by Mr. White. Motion to cease 
nominations carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Motion to elect Mr. 
Laybourn as City Council Vice-President carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute § 15- 1-402 exist for the City- initiated annexation of 26 
parcels of land totaling roughly 279.98 acres comprised of various tracts of land situate in north 
Cheyenne generally located south of Storey Boulevard, east of Powderhouse Road, north of Dell 
Range Boulevard, and west of Ridge Road. There being no comments or input and the purpose of 
the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Ace’s Range LLC d/b/a Ace’s Range, 1505 
Pioneer Ave., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by F & G Corporation d/b/a The Green Door). 
Public comment was made by: Ben Trautwein, The Green Door, JB Kunz, Ace’s Range and April 
Brimmer Kunz, Ace’s Range. Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Wolfe. There being no further comments or input and the 
purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and 
referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office Westby Edge LLC d/b/a Westby Edge Brewing, 714 
W. 20th St., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by Scooters Scoreboard Inc.). Public comment 
was made by: Teri Cassidy, representative for Scooters Scoreboard Bar and Darin Westby, Westby 
Edge Brewing. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mayor Collins . There being no further comments or input and the purpose of the 
public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the 
application to Finance Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for January 2026 until the end of the Fiscal 
Year 2026. Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. (#4655) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating Chapter 1.28, Administrative Inspection 
Warrants, establishing authority for their issuance, and amending the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to authorize certain city officials, as specified, to apply for administrative 
inspection warrants. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Moody and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  During 
comments made by Mr. Wolfe, Mr. Moody raised a point of order that comments were off subject 
with the agenda topic, with Mayor Collins concurring with the point of order. Public comment was 
made by: Exie Brown, Gary Pugh, Kathy Scigliano, Ka di Bradfield, John Frank, Dee Drierden , 
Patricia McCoy, Steve Olson, Clarence Fisher, Erin Edwards, Steve Melia, Colin Crossman, John 
Thomas, Lee Filer, Alan Sheldon, Jon Puls, Sam McGinnis, Caleb Wilkins, Charles Miller,  
Stephen Jacobsen and Marren Stalp . Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. 
Moody, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. 
 
 Following a brief recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 8:08 p.m.  
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in eastern Cheyenne, generally 
located south of Storey Boulevard, east of Powderhouse Road, north of Dell Range Boulevard, 
and west of Ridge Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classifications of AG – Agricultural, and MR – Medium-
Density Residential, for land annexed to the City of Cheyenne generally located south of Storey 
Boulevard, east of Powderhouse Road, north of Dell Range Boulevard, and west of Ridge Road – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending 5.7.3 Accessory Dwelling Units of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code to remove owner -occupancy and adjust parking 
requirements for Accessory Dwellings, and making conforming amendments to the definitions of 
an Accessory Dwelling and Semi -Attached Dwelling under 1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land 
and Buildings – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Moody) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving a sponsorship by Bison Beverage for Cheyenne Frontier Days 
events occurring July 17 through July 26, 2026, July 23 through August 1, 2027, and July 21  
through July 30, 2028. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6506) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Adopting the amended 2025- 2027 City of Cheyenne Comprehensive 
Consolidated Plan and the amended 2025 Annual Action Plan, as prepared by the Cheyenne 
Housing and Community Development Office, and setting the public comment period and public 
hearings for the plans. Mr. Laybourn moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. 
Moody. (#6507) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2026 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
According to the Provisions of W.S. §§ 16- 4-112 & 16-4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION –  Establishing the City of Cheyenne’s prioritized list of projects proposed 
for potential inclusion on the One Percent (1%) Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax Ballot 
proposition to be submitted to the qualified electors of Laramie County at the Primary Election on 
August 18, 2026 – referred to Committee of the Whole. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION –  Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cheyenne 
Business Parkway, 15 th Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located east of 
Echostar Drive and south of and adjacent to Campstool Road – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate 
in western and southern Cheyenne generally located east of I -25, south of the intersection of 
Westland Road and Missile Drive, north of West and East Allison Road and east of and adjacent 
to North College Drive – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for state funding for the Office of State Lands and Investments Unmet Housing Grant  – referred 
to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Rinne & Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Dry Creek Vista, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming 
located northeast of the intersection of Frank Court and Rock Springs Street  – referred to Public 
Services Committee. 
 
  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and RingCentral, LLC for providing cloud based 
enterprise telecom services for all City departments and divisions. Mr. Laybourn moved to approve 
in an amount not to exceed $65,000.00, seconded by Mr. Moody. Mr. Laybourn moved to amend 
the total dollar amount of the contract to $324,750.58 over 36 months, seconded by Mr. Moody. 
Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Main motion as 
amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment was made 
by: Charles Miller. Comment w as made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich. (#8303) 
 
[CA] Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie 
County to provide funding to community agencies and monitor performance of community 
programs – referred to Finance Committee. (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan  
Planning Organization and Stantec Consulting Services Inc. for the East Allison Road Corridor 
Study – referred to Finance Committee. (MPO Funds) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -7-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Pole 
Mountain Electric, Inc., for the Cheyenne Dunbar Field Light Installation project  (2021 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund, Development Impact Fees and Rec Mill Grant) . Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $317,000.00). (#8304) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -11-26 for Microsoft Data Center Product Licensing and Virtual 
Infrastructure for the City of Cheyenne Information Technology Division – referred to Finance 
Committee. (General Fund) 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday on Monday, 
January 19, 2026, the regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting as follows: Public Services Committee will meet Tuesday, January 20, 2026 at Noon and 
Finance Committee will meet Wednesday, January 21, 2026 at Noon. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Special Meeting to be held January 23, 2026 at 12:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting to consider the transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City 
Clerk’s Office for Westby Edge LLC d/b/a Westby Edge Brewing, 714 W. 20th St., Cheyenne, 
WY (license currently held by Scooters Scoreboard Inc.).  
 Announcement was made that a Committee of the Whole meeting will be held on 
Wednesday, January 14, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, 
Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Moody. 
 
Mr. Segrave moved to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4- 
405(a)(vii), seconded by Mr. Laybourn. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open to 
the public and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the 
executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close 
of the executive session. The following staff members were in att endance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s 
Chief of Staff; John Brodie , City Attorney; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer ; Eric Fountain, 
Director of Compliance; Jason Sanchez, Director of Community Recreation & Events; Charles 
Bloom, Director of Planning and Development, Jean Anderson- Shrednik, Parks and Greenway 
Planner and Kylie Soden, City Clerk. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:52 p.m. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 21, 2026 
 