MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-01-26 | CLIP_ID: 1053 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1053

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 26, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Tom Segrave , Jeff White  and 
Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Moody, item #11 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Dr. Aldrich  
moved to approve  remaining items, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 12, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating Chapter 1.28, Administrative Inspection 
Warrants, establishing authority for their issuance, and amending the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to authorize certain city officials, as specified, to apply for administrative 
inspection warrants. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne  moved to approve on 
third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to February 9, 
2026, seconded by Mr. White . Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Public comment was made by: Gary Pugh, Ann Lucas, Kathy Scigliano, Patricia 
McCoy, Peter Seekell, Abe Mendez,  Lee Filer, Colin Crossman, Tamara Trujillo, Jacob 
Wasserberger, Charles Miller, Stephen Jacobsen and Phillip Bowling. Comments were made by 
the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Wolfe.  
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in eastern Cheyenne, generally 
located south of Storey Boulevard, east of Powderhouse Road, north of Dell Range Boulevard, 
and west of Ridge Road. Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody. 
 
 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classifications of AG – Agricultural, and MR – Medium-
Density Residential, for land annexed to the City of Cheyenne generally located south of Storey 
Boulevard, east of Powderhouse Road, north of Dell Range Boulevard, and west of Ridge Road. 
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending 5.7.3 Accessory Dwelling Units of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code to remove owner -occupancy and adjust parking 
requirements for Accessory Dwellings, and making conforming amendments to the definitions of 
an Accessory Dwelling and Semi -Attached Dwelling under 1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land 
and Buildings. Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. R inne and 
Mr. Segrave voting “no” . Public comment was made by: Dan Dorsch, Executive Director of 
Habitat for Humanity of Laramie County. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody and Dr. Rinne. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating Chapter 8.72, Private Displays on Public 
Property, to prohibit the unauthorized use of public property for specified private displays  – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2026 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
According to the Provisions of W.S. §§ 16-4-112 & 16-4-113. Reporting for Finance Committee, 
Mr. Esquibel moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich. (#6508) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Establishing the City of Cheyenne’s prioritized list of projects proposed 
for potential inclusion on the One Percent (1%) Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax Ballot 
proposition to be submitted to the qualified electors of Laramie County at the Primary Election on 
August 18, 2026. Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, seconded 
by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Moody, 
Dr. Rinne and Mr. White. (#6509) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cheyenne 
Business Parkway, 15 th Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located east of 
Echostar Drive and south of and adjacent to Campstool Road. Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6510) 
 
 RESOLUTION –  Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15- 1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate 
in western and southern Cheyenne generally located east of I -25, south of the intersection of 
Westland Road and Missile Drive, north of West and East Allison Road and east of and adjacent 
to North College Drive . Dr. Rinne advised there was no recommendation from Public Service s 
Committee. Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Emmons and Mr. Moody. 
(#6511) 
 
 RESOLUTION –  Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for state funding for the Office of State Lands and Investments Unmet Housing Grant . Mr. 
Esquibel moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Mr. Esquibel moved to amend the total amount 
to $500,000.00, seconded by Mr. White. Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. Main motion as amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Public comment was made by: Dan Dorsch, Executive Director of Habitat for 
Humanity of Laramie County and Shea Sparks, Vice President of Community Services for Magic 
City. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Moody and Mr. Segrave. (#6512) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for State funding through the Office of State Lands and Investments for a Rodeo Grounds 
Pedestrian Transportation Infrastructure Grant, and authorizing the execution and submittal of all 
necessary documents in support of the applica tion. Mr. Esquibel advised that the item was 
reviewed under “Other Items for the Agenda” at the January 21, 2026, Finance Committee 
meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met. Mr. Esquibel moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public 
comment was made by: Tom Hirsig , Chief Executive Officer of Cheyenne Frontier Days . 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Moody and Dr. Rinne. (#6513) 
 
 Preliminary Plat for Dry Creek Vista, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming 
located northeast of the intersection of Frank Court and Rock Springs Street. Dr. Rinne moved to 
acknowledge receipt with staff conditions #2 and #3, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was made by the following member 
of the governing body: Mr. Moody. 
 
[CA] Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie 
County to provide funding to community agencies and monitor performance of community 
programs (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $100,000.00). (#8306) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan  
Planning Organization and Stantec Consulting Services Inc. for the East Allison Road Corridor 
Study (MPO Funds) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$199,514.44). (#8307) 
 
[CA]  Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Girl Scouts of Montana and 
Wyoming, for 45.93 acres of city- owned real property located near the former Roundtop Water 
Treatment Facility to be used for the purposes of conducting activities consistent with the By-Laws 
and Articles of Incorporation of the Girl Scouts of Montana and Wyoming – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Revenue to the City) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8111 between the City of Cheyenne, Office of 
Youth Alternatives, and the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board 
for a Juvenile Diversion Coordinator to provide diversion related services to increase the potential 
contract dollar amount – referred to Finance Committee. (Revenue to the City) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -11-26 for Microsoft Data Center Product Licensing and Virtual 
Infrastructure for the City of Cheyenne Information Technology Division (General Fund). Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Hypertec USA Inc. in an amount not to exceed 
$239,577.88). 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -8-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and  
Fencetrak, Inc. d/b/a Full Tilt Services, for the Dry Creek Restoration Project. Phase 1: 
Meadowland, Holmes, and Henderson Ditches project  – referred to Finance Committee. (2023-
2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -10-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Mechanical Systems, Inc., for the North Cheyenne Community Park Drainage Improvement 
project – referred to Finance Committee. (Development Impact Fees) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-11-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Miller 
and Sons Construction, Inc., for the Parsley Boulevard Greenway Connectors project – referred to 
Finance Committee. (2021 Specific Purpose Tax Fund) 
 
[CA]  Application for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the 
City Clerk’s Office for Ace’s Range LLC d/b/a Ace’s Range, 1505 Pioneer Ave., Cheyenne, WY 
(license currently held by F & G Corporation d/b/a The Green Door).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. 
 
 Appointment of Mike Beitz to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint 
Powers Board and Christina Ruffatti to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities. Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral 
appointments).  
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 9, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY and via electronic conference 
meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute 
§15-1-402 exist for the City-initiated annexation of 16 parcels of land totaling roughly 49.4 acres 
comprised of various tracts of land situate in western and southern Cheyenne generally located 
east of I -25, south of the intersection of Westlan d Rd. and Missile Dr., north of West and East 
Allison Rd. and east of and adjacent to North College Dr. 
 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. White. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:47 p.m. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  February 4, 2026 