MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-02-09 | CLIP_ID: 1060 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1060

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 9, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich (via Zoom), Dr. Kathy 
Emmons, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne (via Zoom), Tom Segrave, 
Jeff White and Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance 
was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda). Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, items #21(a) and #21(c) were removed from the Consent Agenda. 
Mr. White moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 26, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on January 23, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15- 1-402 exist for the City- initiated annexation of 16 
parcels of land totaling roughly 49.4 acres comprised of various tracts of land situate in western 
and southern Cheyenne generally located east of I -25, south of the intersection of Westland Rd. 
and Missile Dr., north of West and East Allison Rd. and east of and adjacent to North College Dr. 
Public comment s were made by:  David Kni seley, Tomm ie Kniseley, Chelsea McCort, Sheriff 
Brian Kozak, Tam ara Trujillo, Richard Kniseley, Kathy S cigliano, Patricia McCoy, Donn  
Edmunds, Francine Shields, Roxy Havel, Richard Lyle, Chris Keetley, Gabriel Poch, Mr. 
Matthews, Landyn Medina, Gay Woodhouse, Kelsie French, Wade Blunn, Haley Arthur, Yulia 
Lenz, Michelle Michael, Leton Cheatham , Michelle Johnson-Bowen, Steven Love, Susan Allen, 
Kim Stevens, Tat iana M., Charles Miller and Erin Edwards . Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe . There being no further 
comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed 
the public hearing.  
 
 Following a brief recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 8:16 p.m. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating Chapter 1.28, Administrative Inspection 
Warrants, establishing authority for their issuance, and amending the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to authorize certain city officials, as specified, to apply for administrative 
inspection warrants. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Emmons moved to approve on 
third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Dr. Emmons moved to amend by substitute 
dated February 5 , 2026 , seconded by Mr. Segrave. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend  section 
1.28.020(b)(2) to replace the first “or” with “and” to read “There is probable cause to believe that 
a condition of nonconformity, violation or other circumstance requiring corrective action exists 
with respect to the designated property and  that causes an immediate risk to public health or 
safety”, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to amend  failed. Voting “no” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody voting “yes”. Dr. Aldrich moved 
to amend section 1.28.020(b)(3)  to remove “determine, discover or ”, seconded by Mr. Moody. 
Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody, Dr. 
Rinne and Mr. White. Voting “no” - Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Segrave and Mr. Wolfe. Mr. 
Moody moved to amend section 1.28.020(b)(1) to add “For the purpose of this ordinance, area is 
defined as any large open space in a single commercial or abandoned property, and includes 
gathering areas, open office space, parking areas, and the exterior environment of the single parcel 
within which the single commercial or abandoned property resides”, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Mr. 
Wolfe raised a point of order  regarding Mr. Moody’s proposed amendment , stating that verbal 
amendments are not an efficient way to approach amendments. Mayor Collins responded that, 
under Robert’s Rules of Order, verbal amendments are permitted; however, as a courtesy, 
providing amendments in writing would be beneficial in the future. Motion to amend failed. Voting 
“no” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody voting 
“yes”. Motion to amend by substitute, as amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Main motion as amend ed by substitute, as amended carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody and Dr. Rinne 
voting “no”. Public comment was made by: Patricia McCoy, Exie Brown, Kathy Scigliano, Bailey 
Turner, Mr. Matthews, Gary Chadwick, Charles Miller, Steven Love, Tamara Trujillo, Al an 
Sheldon and Kristen Turner . Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne  and Mr. 
Wolfe. (#4656) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in eastern Cheyenne, generally 
located south of Storey Boulevard, east of Powderhouse Road, north of Dell Range Boulevard, 
and west of Ridge Road. Dr. Emmons moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was 
made by the following member of the governing body: Mr. Moody. (#4657) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classifications of AG – Agricultural, and MR – Medium-
Density Residential, for land annexed to the City of Cheyenne generally located south of Storey 
Boulevard, east of Powderhouse Road, north of Dell Range Boulevard, and west of Ridge Road. 
Dr. Emmons moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4658) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending 5.7.3 Accessory Dwelling Units of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code to remove owner -occupancy and adjust parking 
requirements for Accessory Dwellings, and making conforming amendments to the definitions of 
an Accessory Dwelling and Semi -Attached Dwelling under 1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land 
and Buildings. Dr. Emmons moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Moody. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne 
and Mr. Segrave voting “no”. Public comment was made by: Alan Sheldon. Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Moody and Dr. Rinne. (#4659) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Creating Chapter 8.72, Private Displays on Public 
Property, to prohibit the unauthorized use of public property for specified private displays . Dr. 
Emmons advised there was no recommendation from Public Services Committee. Dr. Emmons 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White . Dr. Aldrich moved to postpone to 
February 23, 2026, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Emmons voting “no”. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, 
Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Wolfe.  
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for certain land located north of Prairie Avenue, east 
of Powderhouse Road, west of Rue Terre, and south of Storey Boulevard from AG – Agricultural 
to NR -3 – Neighborhood Residential High Density – referred to Public Services Committee . 
(Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located southeast of the intersection of South 
Greeley Highway and East Dayshia Lane from AG – Agricultural to BP – Business Park – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in western and southern 
Cheyenne, generally located east of I-25, south of the intersection of Westland Road and Missile 
Drive, north of West and East Allison Road, and east of and adjacent to North College Drive  – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classifications of AG – Agricultural, MR – Medium-Density 
Residential, CB – Community Business, and LI – Light Industrial, for land annexed to the City of 
Cheyenne generally located east of I -25, south of the intersection of Westland Road and Missile 
Drive, north of West and East Allison Road, and east of and adjacent to North College Drive  – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the inclusion of 
Laramie County Property ID Number 14663133500500 in the Downtown Development District – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Village 
Cooperative, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Prairie Avenue, east 
of Powderhouse Road, west of Rue Terre, and south of Storey Boulevard)  – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA]  Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Girl Scouts of Montana and 
Wyoming, for 45.93 acres of city- owned real property located near the former Roundtop Water 
Treatment Facility to be used for the purposes of conducting activities consistent with the By-Laws 
and Articles of Incorporation of the Girl Scouts of Montana and Wyoming (Revenue to the City). 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount of $100.00 annually for the period of 5 years). 
(#8312) 
 
 Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for Federal 
Project B231031, Cheyenne Streets, US30, Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road Laramie 
County (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Esquibel 
advised that the item was reviewed under “Other Items for the Agenda” at the February 3, 2026 
Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met. Mr. 
Esquibel moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $2,523,500.00, seconded by Mr. Wolfe . 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was made by the 
following member of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn. (#8313) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and TDSi for professional 
design services for the repurposing of the Historic Pumphouse (General Fund Reserves) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Utility Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Microsoft Corporation for 
grant of perpetual right-of-way and temporary easement for underground fiber lines  (Revenue to 
the City) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8111 between the City of Cheyenne, Office of 
Youth Alternatives, and the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board 
for a Juvenile Diversion Coordinator to provide diversion related services to increase the potential 
contract dollar amount (Revenue to the City). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
of $78,175.65). (#8111) 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7777 between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation for Federal Project B231031, Cheyenne Streets, US30, 
Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road Laramie County (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund). Mr. Esquibel advised that the item was reviewed under “Other Items for the Agenda” at the 
February 3, 2026, Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code have 
been met. Mr. Esquibel moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $866,240.00, seconded by 
Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment 
was made by: Donn Edmunds. Comment was made by the following member of the governing 
body: Mr. Laybourn. (#7777) 
 
[CA]  Contract Modification #3 to Contract #7977 between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the Public Works Improvements project (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund, 
Fleet Maintenance Fund & Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA]  Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7821 between the City of Cheyenne and United 
Way of Laramie County to provide funding to community agencies and monitor performance of 
community programs (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  Consideration of Bid #S -8-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and  
Fencetrak, Inc. d/b/a Full Tilt Services,  for the Dry Creek Restoration Project. Phase 1: 
Meadowland, Holmes, and Henderson Ditches project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). 
Mr. Esquibel moved to accept the bid in an amount not to exceed $458,282.50, seconded by Mr. 
Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Dr. 
Rinne. (#8314) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -10-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Mechanical Systems, Inc., for the North Cheyenne Community Park Drainage Improvement 
project (Development Impact Fees) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $121,606.00). (#8315) 
 
  Consideration of Bid #S-11-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Miller 
and Sons Construction, Inc., for the Parsley Boulevard Greenway Connectors project (2021 
Specific Purpose Tax Fund) . Mr. Esquibel moved to accept  the bid in an amount not to exceed  
$228,970.80, seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the 
governing body.  Comment was made by the following member of the governing body:  Mr. 
Laybourn. (#8316) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-9-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Aztec 
Construction Co., Inc., for the Kiwanis Park Trail and Constructed Wetlands project (2017 Specific 
Purpose Tax Fund & Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Grant)  – referred to Finance 
Committee.  
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-8-26 for furnishing One (1) New 52K GVWR Truck with Trash 
Loader and Dump Body for the Forestry Division (One Time State Distribution Funds) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E -12-26 for furnishing One (1) New Recycling Vacuum & High 
Pressure Water Jet Truck 66K GVWR for the Street and Alley Division (2019-2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
 Appointment of Rebecca Ogletree to the Community Action of Laramie County Board. Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral 
appointments). 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented.  
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, February 23, 2026 at 
6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic 
conference meeting, for renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, 
limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite distillery, special malt beverage 
and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  
  
 Announcement was made that due to the President’s Day Holiday on Monday, February 
16, 2026, the regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting 
as follows: Public Services Committee will meet Tuesday, February 17, 2026 at Noon and Finance 
Committee will meet Wednesday, February 18, 2026 at Noon. 
 
Public comment was made by the following under Other Business:  Mary Whalen, Jim 
Chiro and Charles Miller. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Esquibel. 
 
Mr. Segrave moved to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4- 
405(a), seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open to the public 
and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the executive 
session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close of the 
executive session. The following staff members were in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s Chief 
of Staff; John Brodie, City Attorney; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer; Tom Cobb, City Engineer; 
Chief Andrew Dykshorn and Deputy Chief Don Wood, Cheyenne Fire Rescue and Kylie Soden, 
City Clerk. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 11:41 p.m. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  February 19, 2026 