MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-02-23 | CLIP_ID: 1066 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1066

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 23, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne, Tom Segrave (via Zoom), Jeff White 
and Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda). Upon request by Mr. Esquibel, and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, items #19(a) and #19(b) were removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Upon request by Mr. Moody, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White, item 
#14 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Dr. Aldrich  moved to approve  remaining items , 
seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 9, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing  for renewal applications for existing City liquor 
licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite 
distillery, special malt beverage and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office. Public 
comments were made by: A.K. Wallace and Cameron Brown, Cheba Hut. There being no further 
comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed 
the public hearing and referred the applications to the Finance Committee.  
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Creating Chapter 8.72, Private Displays on Public 
Property, to prohibit the unauthorized use of public property for specified private displays . 
Reporting for Public Services Committee,  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich . Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by substitute dated February 13, 2026, 
seconded by Mr. Moody . During comments made by Dr. Emmons regarding the substitute, Dr. 
Aldrich raised a point of order that comments were off subject.  Mayor Collins responded that the 
comments were germane to the substitute. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Emmons  voting “no”. Main motion 
as amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Dr. Emmons and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. Public comments were made by: Cheryl 
Gerrish and Steven Love. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Wolfe. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for certain land located north of Prairie Avenue, east 
of Powderhouse Road, west of Rue Terre, and south of Storey Boulevard from AG – Agricultural 
to NR -3 – Neighborhood Residential High Density. Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Public comment was made by:  Andrew Schafer, R eal Estate Equities D evelopment 
Company. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Mayor Collins.  
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located southeast of the intersection of South 
Greeley Highway and East Dayshia Lane from AG – Agricultural to BP – Business Park. Dr. Rinne 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in western and southern 
Cheyenne, generally located east of I-25, south of the intersection of Westland Road and Missile 
Drive, north of West and East Allison Road, and east of and adjacent to North College Drive. Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by D r. Aldrich. Dr. Aldrich moved to 
postpone to March 9, 2026, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to postpone failed. Voting “yes” – 
Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody and Mr. White. Voting “no” – Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, 
Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave and Mr. Wolfe. Mr. Moody moved to amend by removing 
Parcel 4  and the southern portion of P arcel 7 , seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  During comments  
regarding the amendment, Mayor Collins ruled David Kniseley out of order. Mr. Esquibel moved 
to divide the question to consider Parcel 4 and the southern portion of Parcel 7 separately, seconded 
by Dr. Aldrich. Dr. Rinne raised  a point of order regarding the motion to divide the question, 
stating it was not divisible. Mayor Collins ruled the motion  was in order. Motion to divide the 
question failed. Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody and Mr. White. Voting “no” 
– Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave and Mr. Wolfe.  
 
 Following a brief recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 7:40 p.m. 
 
 Mr. Moody, with concurrence by Dr. Aldrich as the second to the motion, moved by 
friendly amendment to remove Parcels 4 and 7 in their entirety. Motion to amend failed. Voting 
“no” all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Moody voting 
“yes”.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comments were made by: David Kniseley, 
WYFresh, Donald Crerar, Steven Love, Brian Pixley, Richard Knis eley, Micah Sutton, Chelsea 
McCort, Alan Sheldon and Tommy Kniseley, WYFresh . Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classifications of AG – Agricultural, MR – Medium-Density 
Residential, CB – Community Business, and LI – Light Industrial, for land annexed to the City of 
Cheyenne generally located east of I -25, south of the intersection of Westland Road and Missile 
Drive, north of West and East Allison Road, and east of and adjacent to North College Drive. Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Repealing and replacing Ordinance No. 4603, specifying 
the monthly Stormwater Runoff Management System user fee in accordance with Section 
13.32.050 of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and providing a revised 
effective date – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. A ldrich, D r. E mmons, M r. 
Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the inclusion of 
Laramie County Property ID Number 14663133500500 in the Downtown Development District . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6514) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Village 
Cooperative, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Prairie Avenue, east 
of Powderhouse Road, west of Rue Terre, and south of Storey Boulevard) . Dr. Rinne moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to March 9, 2026, seconded by Mr. 
Wolfe. Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment 
was made by the following member of the governing body: Mayor Collins. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing the deposit of proceeds from the sale of certain real property 
into the City’s Real Property Revolving Fund – referred to Finance Committee . (Sponsor – Mr. 
Esquibel) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an Americorps Seniors Foster 
Grandparent Program application to Americorps on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of 
Cheyenne for a three-year continuation of funding for the Youth Alternatives Foster Grandparent 
Program and related support items – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities to execute a grant 
agreement with the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for Federal Emergency Management 
Agency Rehabilitation of High Hazard Potential Dams funding and to authorize the Dire ctor of 
the Board to execute all related documents  – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – In support of the Professional Rodeo Cowboy Association (PRCA) and 
Professional Rodeo Hall of Fame and Museum of the American Cowboy  – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsors– Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. 
Rinne, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe) 
 
  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and TDSi for professional 
design services for the repurposing of the Historic Pumphouse (General Fund Reserves). Reporting 
for Finance Committee, Mr. Esquibel moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $198,903.00, 
seconded by Mr. White. Mr. Wolfe moved to amend by substitute dated February 20, 2026, 
seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. Main motion as amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body.  Public comments were made by:  Maren Kallas, Historic Cheyenne Inc., 
Milward Simpson and Randy Byers, TDSi. Comment s were made by the following member s of 
the governing body: Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Wolfe. (#8317) 
 
  Utility Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Microsoft Corporation for 
grant of perpetual right-of-way and temporary easement for underground fiber lines  (Revenue to 
the City). Mr. Esquibel moved to approve in an amount of $10.00, seconded by Mr. White . Mr. 
Esquibel moved to amend in the amount of $1,265.00, seconded by Mr. White. Motion to amend 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Main motion as amended carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. 
(#8318) 
 
[CA]  Contract Modification #3 to Contract #7977 between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the Public Works Improvements project (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund, 
Fleet Maintenance Fund & Solid Waste Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $266,406.49). (#7977) 
 
[CA]  Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7821 between the City of Cheyenne and United 
Way of Laramie County to provide funding to community agencies and monitor performance of 
community programs (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7821) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7322 between the City of Cheyenne and Sweetgrass 
Homeowners Association and the Sweetgrass Commercial Owners Association to outline 
responsibilities for both construction and maintenance of the Greater Cheyenne Greenway as well 
as enhanced landscaping constructed within tracts of land owned by the City and for areas within 
the public right-of-way within Sweetgrass, 1st and 2nd Filings – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-9-26 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Aztec 
Construction Co., Inc., for the Kiwanis Park Trail and Constructed Wetlands project (2017 Specific 
Purpose Tax Fund & Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Grant) . Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $487,560.00). (#8319) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-8-26 for furnishing One (1) New 52K GVWR Truck with Trash 
Loader and Dump Body for the Forestry Division (One Time State Distribution Funds) . Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Floyd’s Truck Center Inc. in an amount not to 
exceed $253,260.00). 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E -12-26 for furnishing One (1) New Recycling Vacuum & High 
Pressure Water Jet Truck 66K GVWR for the Street and Alley Division (2019-2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda)  carried (accepted bid from Kaiser Premier in an 
amount not to exceed $848,639.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -13-26 for the Lease of One (1) New In Stock 40 Yard Front 
Loader Refuse Collection Truck for the City of Cheyenne Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund 
& WARM Insurance Proceeds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented.  
   
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
  
Public comment was made by the following under Other Business: Ted Hanlon. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Mr. Wolfe.   
 
Mr. Laybourn moved to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4- 
405(a), seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open to the public 
and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the executive 
session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close of the 
executive session. The following staff members were in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s Chief 
of Staff; John Brodie, City Attorney; Robin Lockman, City Treasur er; Kylie Soden, City Clerk;  
Chief Andrew Dykshorn,  Deputy Chief Don Wood, and Deputy Chief of Administrative Services, 
Glenn Rodgers, Cheyenne Fire Rescue. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 9:46 p.m. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 6, 2026 