MEETING: Special City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-03-05 | CLIP_ID: 1069 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1069

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 5, 2026 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne convened in a special meeting on this date 
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers for the purpose of collective labor bargaining 
with the Cheyenne Professional Fire Fighters, International Association of Fire Fighters, Local 
No. 279.  Present were:  MAYOR – Patrick Collins; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Mr. Segrave (via Zoom), Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. Absent:  Dr. Aldrich, 
Dr. Emmons and Dr. Rinne . Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk; John Brodie, City Attorney; 
Amber Ash, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer and Chief Andrew Dykshorn 
and Deputy Chief Don Wood, Cheyenne Fire Rescue.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
      
 Mayor Collins advised he would entertain a motion to go into executive session.  Pursuant 
to Wyoming State Statute §16 -4-405(a)(x), Mr. Wolfe moved to meet in executive session, 
seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. The following staff members were in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; 
John Brodie, City Attorney; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer; Kylie Soden, City Clerk  and Chief 
Andrew Dykshorn and Deputy Chief Don Wood, Cheyenne Fire Rescue. [City Clerk note: audio 
and video recording of the special meeting was stopped; Executive Session convened at 6:05 p.m. 
in the Mayor’s conference room] 
 
Following closure of the executive session, Mayor Collins reconvened the special meeting 
at 6:40 p.m.  
 
Chris Thoms, President, Local #279, expressed appreciation for the labor -management 
meetings that take place in advance of contract negotiation meetings. He stated the Union’s 
primary goal is to address firefighter wages and presented wage comparisons for firefighter 
positions in Wyoming, Colorado, Montana, and South Dakota. Mr. Thoms indicated it is the 
Union’s position that Cheyenne firefighter compensati on falls behind regional standards. Upon a 
request for clarification on the jurisdictions used for wag e comparisons , Mr. Thoms provided 
additional information and stated that Cheyenne competes with departments along the Front 
Range. Mayor Collins stated that Wyoming communities are the most appropriate peer 
comparisons and noted the City has not experienced significant recruitment or retention issues in 
recent years. Mr. Thoms indicated the Union’s analysis includes both starting and top -out wages 
and that Cheyenne falls behind some communities in top-out compensation. 
 
Discussion continued regarding differences in municipal funding structures, statewide 
compensation averages, top-out wages, identification of appropriate peer communities with similar 
tax structures and populations, and the number of applicants for entry-level firefighter positions. 
 
      Submitted by, 
 
 
       Kylie Soden, 
       City Clerk 
 This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 11, 2026 
  