MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-03-09 | CLIP_ID: 1071 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1071

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 9, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Tom Segrave , Jeff White  and 
Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda ). Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Moody and Mr. White, items #18, #20 and #22 were removed from the Consent Agenda. 
Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, 
item #21 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to 
support received by Mr. Moody and Mr. Esquibel, item #26 (a) was  removed from the Consent 
Agenda. Mr. Segrave moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
Dr. Rinne moved to suspend the rules to change the order of the agenda to bring forward 
agenda item #22 (Resolution regarding support of the Professional Rodeo Cowboy Association) 
for action immediately prior to agenda item #7, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no.” 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 23, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on February 23, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 RESOLUTION – In support of the Professional Rodeo Cowboy Association (PRCA) and 
Professional Rodeo Hall of Fame and Museum of the American Cowboy. Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. Esquibel moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. Public comments were made by: Katharine Wilkinson, 
Betsey Hale, Cheyenne LEADS and Don Odom. Comments were made by the following members 
of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody and Mr. White . 
(#6515) 
 
 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Creating Chapter 8.72, Private Displays on Public 
Property, to prohibit the unauthorized use of public property for specified private displays . 
Reporting for Public Services Committee,  Dr. Emmons  moved to approve on third and final  
reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion failed. Voting “no” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White  voting “yes”. Public comments 
were made by: Kathy Scigliano, Steven Love and Chelsea McCort. Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. 
Wolfe. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for certain land located north of Prairie Avenue, east 
of Powderhouse Road, west of Rue Terre, and south of Storey Boulevard from AG – Agricultural 
to NR-3 – Neighborhood Residential High Density. Dr. Emmons moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4660) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located southeast of the intersection of South 
Greeley Highway and East Dayshia Lane from AG – Agricultural to BP – Business Park. Dr. 
Emmons moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4661) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in western and southern 
Cheyenne, generally located east of I-25, south of the intersection of Westland Road and Missile 
Drive, north of West and East Allison Road, and east of and adjacent to North College Drive. Dr. 
Emmons moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Following a 
brief recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 9: 00 p.m. Mr. Moody moved to amend by 
substitute dated March 2, 2026, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend failed due to a tie vote. 
Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody, Mr. Wolfe, and Mr. White. Voting “no” – 
Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn, Dr Rinne  and Mr. Segrave. Dr. Aldrich moved to 
divide the question to remove Parcel #4 and the agricultural portion of Parcel #7, seconded by Mr. 
White. Motion to divide the question failed  due to a tie vote . Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Moody, Mr. Wolfe, and Mr. White. Voting “no” – Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. 
Laybourn, Dr Rinne and Mr. Segrave. Mr. Moody moved to amend the effective date to March 10, 
2027, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend failed. Voting “no” – all members of the 
governing body. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend with a postponement date certain of June 8, 2026, 
seconded by Mr. Moody. Mr. White moved to amend the amendment with a postponement date 
certain of November 9, 2026, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to amend the amendment carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Motion to postpone by amended postponement 
date certain of November 9, 2026 carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
Public comments were made by: Tommie Kniseley, WY Fresh Farm, Michael Jordan, Roxy Havel, 
Laura Lee, Patricia McCoy, Scott Boersma, Kathy Scigliano, Becky Boersma, Jacob 
Wasserburger, Gary  Pugh, Don Odom, Denel Pugh, Exie Brown, Tatyana Machemer , Brian 
Pixley, Verena Booth, Donald Crerar, Colleen Shassetz, Gary Brown, Ann Lucas, Steve Johnson, 
Richard Lyle, Daniel Singh, Jerry Ditto, Steve Melia, Chelsea McCort, Carol Atkinson, Hannah 
Fields, Steven Love, Glenn Connor, Betty Keetley, Gay Woodhouse, Tam ara Trujillo, Cody 
Smith, David Kniseley, Wade Blunn, Richard Kniseley, Micah Sutton, Gerry (no last name given), 
Dakota Titus, Johnnie Kniseley, Jordan Wisdorf, Ken Williams, Eric Henderson, Sarah Morgan, 
Bobbie Ecker-Mauthe, Charles Miller, Anna Blessing, Joee Pavlica, Lucky Buffalo Farmstand, 
Adrian Crader, Ronald Stringer, Ann Domah, and Pattie Thomas . During comments made by 
Charles Miller, Mr. Wolfe raised a point of order that commen ts were off subject. Mayor Collins 
responded that comments weren’t germane to the subject. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. 
 
 Following a brief recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 11:05 p.m. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classifications of AG – Agricultural, MR – Medium-Density 
Residential, CB – Community Business, and LI – Light Industrial, for land annexed to the City of 
Cheyenne generally located east of I -25, south of the intersection of Westland Road and Missile 
Drive, north of West and East Allison Road, and east of and adjacent to North College Drive. Dr. 
Emmons moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Dr. Aldrich 
moved to postpone with a date certain of November 9, 2026, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to 
postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comments were made 
by: David Kniseley. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Repealing and replacing Ordinance No. 4603, specifying 
the monthly Stormwater Runoff Management System user fee in accordance with Section 
13.32.050 of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and providing a revised 
effective date. Mr. Esquibel moved to approve on second  reading, seconded by Mr. White. Mr. 
Esquibel moved to amend by substitute dated February 25, 2026, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion 
to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with th e 
exception of Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Wolfe voting “no”. Main motion as amended by substitute  
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn 
and Mr. Wolfe voting “no”. Public comment was made by: Steven Love. Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave and Mr. Wolfe. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located north of West College Drive and 
east of South Parsley Boulevard from PUD Harmony Valley Planned Unit Development to NR -3 
Neighborhood Residential - High Density – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. 
Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of West Allison Road, west 
of Walterscheid Boulevard, and north of Grand Harmony Boulevard from PUD Harmony Valley 
Planned Unit Development to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential - High Density – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located north of Allison Road and west of 
Walterscheid Boulevard from AG Agriculture to NR-3  Neighborhood Residential -  High Density 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located northwest of the intersection of East 
29th Street and Central Avenue from MR – Medium-Density Residential to NR-2 – Neighborhood 
Residential Medium-Density – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Vacating Frank Court and a small segment of a 
previously vacated alley, north of Rock Springs Street, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located east of North College Drive and north of Rock Springs Street)  – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Village 
Cooperative, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Prairie Avenue, east 
of Powderhouse Road, west of Rue Terre, and south of Storey Boulevard). Dr. Emmons moved to 
adopt with staff recommendations, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#6516) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing the deposit of proceeds from the sale of certain real property 
into the City’s Real Property Revolving Fund. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6517) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an Americorps Seniors Foster 
Grandparent Program application to Americorps  on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of 
Cheyenne for a three-year continuation of funding for the Youth Alternatives Foster Grandparent 
Program and related support items. Mr. Esquibel moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was made by the following 
member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. (#6518) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities to execute a grant 
agreement with the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for Federal Emergency Management 
Agency Rehabilitation of High Hazard Potential Dams funding and to authorize the Dire ctor of 
the Board to execute all related documents. Mr. Esquibel moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6519) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to approve and submit the Wyoming 
Division of Victim Services Funding Application for State Fiscal Years 2027 and 2028 – referred 
to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
 
 
 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7322 between the City of Cheyenne and Sweetgrass 
Homeowners Association and the Sweetgrass Commercial Owners Association to outline 
responsibilities for both construction and maintenance of the Greater Cheyenne Greenway as well 
as enhanced landscaping constructed within tracts of land owned by the City and for areas within 
the public right -of-way within Sweetgrass, 1 st and 2 nd Filings. Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7322) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8267 between the City of Cheyenne and Plan One 
Architects for the Municipal Building Renovation Design project (General Fund Reserves)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -13-26 for the Lease of One (1) New In Stock 40 Yard Front 
Loader Refuse Collection Truck for the City of Cheyenne Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund 
& WARM Insurance Proceeds) . Motion (per consent agenda) carried ( accepted bid from Elliot 
Equipment Company in an amount not to exceed $409,388.96).  
 
 Renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail,  
resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite distillery, special malt beverage and winery 
permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  Mr. Esquibel moved to approve, seconded by Mr. 
White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment was 
made by: B ryan ‘Alf’ Grzegorczyk, Alf’s Pub and Cameron Brown, Cheba Hut. Comment was 
made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented.  
 
An announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 23, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for 
Mongolian Bar & Grill, d/b/a Mongolian Bar & Grill, 1637 Stillwater Ave. Ste. C, Cheyenne, WY.  
 
Public comment was made by the following under Other Business: Ted Hanlon and Charles 
Miller. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Moody.   
 
Mr. Segrave moved to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4- 
405(a), seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open to the public 
and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the executive 
session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close of the 
executive session. The following staff members were in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s Chief 
of Staff; John Brodie, City Attorney; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer;  and Kylie Soden, City 
Clerk.  
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 12:14 a.m.      
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 18, 2026 