MEETING: Special City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-03-12 | CLIP_ID: 1073 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1073

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 12, 2026 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne convened in a special meeting on this date 
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers for the purpose of collective labor bargaining 
with the Cheyenne Professional Fire Fighters, International Association of Fire Fighters, Local 
No. 279.  Present were:  MAYOR – Patrick Collins; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Aldrich, Dr. 
Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White  and Mr. Wolfe . 
Absent: Dr. Rinne. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk; John Brodie, City Attorney;  Amber 
Ash, Mayor’s Chief of Staff;  Robin Lockman, City Treasurer and Chief Andrew Dykshorn , 
Deputy Chief Don Wood and Deputy Chief of Administrative Services, Glenn Rodgers, Cheyenne 
Fire Rescue.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
      
 Mayor Collins advised he would entertain a motion to go into executive session.  Pursuant 
to Wyoming State Statute §16 -4-405(a)(x), Mr.  Segrave moved to meet in executive session, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. The following staff members were in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; 
John Brodie, City Attorney; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer; Kylie Soden, City Clerk  and Chief 
Andrew Dykshorn, Deputy Chief Don Wood and Deputy Chief of Administrative Services, Glenn 
Rodgers, Cheyenne Fire Rescue.  [City Clerk note: audio and video  recording of the special 
meeting was stopped; Executive Session convened at 6:04 p.m. in the City Council office] 
 
Following closure of the executive session, Mayor Collins reconvened the special meeting 
at 6:33 p.m.  
 
Chris Thoms, President of Local #279, expressed appreciation for the Governing Body’s 
support and positive relationship with the Union. He briefly reviewed the Union’s request, noting 
that no wage increase was requested last year and emphasiz ed the need to remain competitive 
within the regional market. Mayor Collins thanked the Union for its constructive relationship with 
the City and acknowledged their concerns. He noted the importance of identifying an appropriate 
peer group for compensation comparisons and provided an overview of benefits offered in 
Cheyenne compared to other Wyoming communities, including retirement , wages and specialty 
and longevity pay. Mayor Collins stated that, in many cases, Cheyenne’s compensation is more 
favorable and noted that working in other states can involve  a higher cost of living due to factors 
including income and property taxes. He also provided a brief overview of the City’s proposal.  
Mr. Thoms requested a recess at 6:43 p.m., and Union members vacated chambers to the H R 
conference room to caucus. 
 
Mayor Collins reconvened the special session at 7:11 p.m., at which time it was agreed to 
adjourn until the next meeting. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:12 p.m. 
 
 
      Submitted by, 
 
 
       Kylie Soden, 
       City Clerk 
 
 This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 18, 2026 
  