MEETING: Special City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-03-16 | CLIP_ID: 1075 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1075

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 16, 2026 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne convened in a special meeting on this date 
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers for the purpose of collective labor bargaining 
with the Cheyenne Professional Fire Fighters, International Association of Fire Fighters, Local 
No. 279.  Present were:  MAYOR – Patrick Collins; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Aldrich, Dr. 
Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. Absent: Dr. Rinne 
and Mr. Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk; John Brodie, City Attorney; Amber Ash, 
Mayor’s Chief of Staff;  Robin Lockman, City Treasurer and Chief Andrew Dykshorn, Deputy 
Chief Don Wood  and Deputy Chief of Administrative Services, Glenn Rodgers, Cheyenne Fire 
Rescue.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
      
Chris Thoms, President of Local #279, emphasized the Union’s priority of maintaining fair 
market wages and noted that peer departments, including those along the Front Range, provide 
relevant comparisons. Jason Lindsay, Vice President of Local #279, presented pension and salary 
comparisons for firefighters in Wyoming, Colorado, and Montana. Discussion included specialty 
pay, Cheyenne’s economic growth,  and cost-of-living data sourced from bestplaces.net.  Mr. 
Thoms presented a counter proposal which included updates to Section 19 – Inclement Weather 
and Section 21 – Classification of Employment and Basic Wages. Additional discussion included 
recruitment efforts, attrition history, firefighter candidate pools, appropriate peer comparisons, the 
importance of aligning recurring revenues with recurring expenses, as well as the City’s use of 
reserves. 
 
Pursuant to Wyoming State Statute §16 -4-405(a)(x), Mr.  Segrave moved to meet in 
executive session, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. The following staff members were in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s 
Chief of Staff; John Brodie, City Attorney; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer; Kylie Soden, City 
Clerk and Chief Andrew Dykshorn, Deputy Chief Don Wood and Deputy Chief of Administrative 
Services, Glenn Rodgers, Cheyenne Fire Rescue. [City Clerk note: audio and video recording of 
the special meeting was stopped; Executive Session convened at 6:41 p.m. in the City Council 
office] 
 
Following closure of the executive session, Mayor Collins reconvened the special meeting 
at 7:06 p.m. and discussion continued regarding wage comparisons, specialty pay, and appropriate 
peer groups, including how comparable communities structure and fund compensation.  Mayor 
Collins expressed the belief that the City’s firefighters are not underpaid. Discussion also included 
cost-of-living comparisons among certain Wyoming communities, paramedic compensation and 
training considerations, and ongoing challenges in reaching an agreement on wage comparisons 
and the identification of appropriate peer groups. The City reiterated its standing offer related to 
wage increases. The Union requested adjournme nt to review rank average amounts provided by 
the City. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:35 p.m. 
      Submitted by, 
 
 
       Kylie Soden, 
       City Clerk 
 
 This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 20, 2026 
  