MEETING: Special City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-03-17 | CLIP_ID: 1081 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1081

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 17, 2026 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne convened in a special meeting on this date 
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers for the purpose of collective labor bargaining 
with the Cheyenne Professional Fire Fighters, International Association of Fire Fighters, Local 
No. 279.  Present were:  MAYOR – Patrick Collins; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Aldrich, Dr. 
Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. Absent: Dr. Rinne 
and Mr. Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk; John Brodie, City Attorney; Amber Ash, 
Mayor’s Chief of Staff;  Robin Lockman, City Treasurer and Chief Andrew Dykshorn, Deputy 
Chief Don Wood and Deputy Chief of Administrative Services, Glenn Rodgers, Cheyenn e Fire 
Rescue.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
      
Chris Thoms, President, Local #279, advised the parties remain at an impasse regarding 
wages and expressed a preference to proceed with reviewing other sections of the contract. Mayor 
Collins emphasized the City’s goal of maintaining Cheyenne Fire Rescue as the best place to work. 
He reviewed current staffing levels,  new fire stations, apparatus and equipment, and highlighted 
the City’s ongoing investments in firefighter safety. Mayor Collins expressed concern about losing 
momentum on progress made in negotiations and further reviewed compensation data, stating that 
Cheyenne firefighters are currently the highest paid in the state. He provided additional 
comparative information f or Loveland, CO , including staffing levels, call volumes per station, 
number of stations, battalion chief assignments, as well as cost of living considerations and noted 
that Loveland is not unionized. He reiterated that wages remain the primary point of concern  and 
expressed reluctance to move forward with other sections of the agreement at this time. Mr. Thoms 
requested a recess at 6:20 p.m., and Union members vacated chambers to the HR conference room 
to caucus. 
 
Mayor Collins reconvened the special session at 6:45 p.m. Mr. Thoms acknowledged that 
wages remain the primary issue and expressed the Union’s desire to continue moving forward with 
negotiations. Mayor Collins stated that the parties remain at a standstill pending agreement on 
certain key issues. Mr. Thoms requested that previously referenced data be provided for review in 
advance of the next meeting. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:49 p.m. 
      Submitted by, 
 
 
       Kylie Soden, 
       City Clerk 
 
 This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 20, 2026 