MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2026-03-23 | CLIP_ID: 1086 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1086

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 23, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel (via Zoom), Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne, Tom Segrave, Jeff White 
and Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Luisa Walsh, Deputy City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was 
recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda). Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 9 , 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special  Meeting of the Governing Body on March 5 , 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special  Meeting of the Governing Body on March 12, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special  Meeting of the Governing Body on March 16, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special  Meeting of the Governing Body on March 17, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Mongolian Bar & Grill, d/b/a Mongolian Bar & Grill, 1637 Stillwater 
Ave. Ste. C, Cheyenne, WY. Public comments were made by:  Robin Cozad, Mongolian Bar & 
Grill and Richard Johnson. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: 
Mayor Collins. There being no further comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing 
having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public he aring and referred the application to the 
Finance Committee. 
 
 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Repealing Ordinance No. 4603, which specified the 
monthly Stormwater Runoff Management System user fee in accordance with Section 13.32.050 
of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. 
White moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Laybourn and Mr. Wolfe voting “no”. Public comment was made by: Richard Johnson. Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. 
Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White and Mr. 
Wolfe. (#4662) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located north of West College Drive and 
east of South Parsley Boulevard from PUD Harmony Valley Planned Unit Development to NR -3 
Neighborhood Residential - High Density. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Emmons 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of West Allison Road, west 
of Walterscheid Boulevard, and north of Grand Harmony Boulevard from PUD Harmony Valley 
Planned Unit Development to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential -  High Density. Dr. Emmons 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body:  Mayor Collins and Mr. Moody. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located north of Allison Road and west of 
Walterscheid Boulevard from AG Agriculture to NR-3  Neighborhood Residential -  High Density. 
Dr. Emmons moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located northwest of the intersection of East 
29th Street and Central Avenue from MR – Medium-Density Residential to NR-2 – Neighborhood 
Residential Medium-Density. Dr. Emmons moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Vacating Frank Court and a small segment of a 
previously vacated alley, north of Rock Springs Street, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located east of North College Drive and north of Rock Springs Street) . Dr. Emmons 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
 
  
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 13.20.050, General Prohibitions, and Section 
13.20.070, Local Limits, of Chapter 13.20 Wastewater Treatment and Disposal, of the Code of the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to revise local discharge limits and related provisions in compliance 
with NPDES and WPDES permit requirements – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor 
– Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 2.76.040, designation of Downtown 
Development District, of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, 
Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
expand the Downtown Development District – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. White) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Appropriating money for the Reed Avenue Corridor 
Project – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, 
Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to approve and submit the Wyoming 
Division of Victim Services Funding Application for State Fiscal Years 2027 and 2028. Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6520)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 2900 
Central Avenue Townhomes, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of 
the intersection of East 29th Street and Central Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving and adopting the City of Cheyenne Crosswalk Criteria and 
Guidelines and confirming the authority of the City Engineer to implement crosswalk treatments  
– referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA]     Drainage Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and CBH Properties 
Cheyenne, LLC . for a recently constructed stormwater detention pond – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA]    Drainage Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Tractor Supply 
Company for a recently constructed stormwater detention pond – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and McGee, Hearne & 
Paiz, LLP d/b/a MHP Assurance Services, LLP, for auditing the Annual Financial Statements of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming and its Board of Public Utilities (General Fund and BOPU)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8267 between the City of Cheyenne and Plan One 
Architects for the Municipal Building Renovation Design project (General Fund Reserves) . Mr. 
White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $867,050.00, seconded by Mr. Segrave . 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn. Mr. Moody and Mr. Wolfe voting “no”. Public comment  was made by: 
Richard Johnson. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White and Mr. 
Wolfe. (#8267) 
 
[CA]  Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Fuel Management Solutions, 
Inc., for fuel site pump upgrades at the Prairie View Golf Course, and Airport Golf Course (Fleet 
Maintenance Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Appointment of Andi Mikkelson to the Public Transit Advisory Board. Dr. Aldrich moved 
to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointment). 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented.  
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
An announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 13, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions requested by Wyoming 
Statute § 15- 1-402 exists for about 1,259.91 acres of land located west of Roundtop Road and 
adjacent to Happy Jack Road. 
 
[CA]  Designation of the Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of 
Cheyenne at the June 4, 2026 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Summer Convention 
Business Meeting to be held in Laramie, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Public comment was made by the following under Other Business: Richard Johnson 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Moody and Mr. Segrave.  
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:19 a.m.      
        Submitted by, 
              
        Luisa Walsh, 
        Deputy City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 2, 2026 