MEETING: Special City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-03-23 | CLIP_ID: 1087 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1087

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 23, 2026 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne convened in a special meeting on this date 
beginning at 7:38 p.m. in City Council Chambers for the purpose of collective labor bargaining 
with the Cheyenne Professional Fire Fighters, International Association of Fire Fighters, Local 
No. 279.  Present were:  MAYOR – Patrick Collins; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Aldrich, Dr. 
Emmons, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. Absent: 
Mr. Esquibel. Also present: Luisa Walsh, Deputy City Clerk; John Brodie, City Attorney; Amber 
Ash, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer and Deputy Chief of Administrative 
Services, Glenn Rodgers, Cheyenne Fire Rescue.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Mayor Collins provided opening remarks  regarding ongoing collective labor bargaining 
and acknowledged the concerns brought forth regarding salaries. He referenced a spreadsheet 
comparing the salaries of Local #279 to other departments throughout Wyoming and Colorado and 
emphasized we are comparable with other departments noting Cheyenne firefighters are offered 
reimbursement for education, whereas other departments do not offer this. Mayor Collins reviewed 
the City’s current compensation offer which includes maintaining the 3% COLA increase that was 
instituted in January, a 3% increase in base wage s, an additional 3.5% increase to Captain and 
4.75% to Battalion Chief to address compression, adjust probationary  firefighter step to 5% less 
than firefighter step 4 and increase medical, longevity and specialty pay by 3%. Chris Thoms,  
President, Local #279, requested a recess to review the proposal at 7:45 p.m., and Union members 
vacated chambers to the HR conference room to caucus. 
 
Mayor Collins reconvened the special session at 8:20 p.m. Mr. Thoms thanked the Mayor 
and City Council for their part in moving towards resolution. He stated that the Union was willing 
to move forward with the following framework: a ccept the 3% base pay increase with the 
understanding that it is a market base adjustment and not a COLA, an extension of the COLA 
sunset clause on page 34, Section 21 of the current Collective Labor Agreement to extend through 
the new ly proposed agreement, and  request City acceptance of the MERP  (Medical Expense 
Reimbursement Plan) language as proposed by the Union. Mayor Collins  reviewed the Vacation 
proposed language in Section 26 and advised that if the City and the  Union can agree to  the 
proposal, he would consider the MERP proposal. Mr. Thoms proposed amending the language to 
allow the four slots to be designated as either vacation or E.O.D. slots. Following discussion with 
Deputy Chief Rodgers, Mayor Collins confirmed mutual understanding of the vacation language, 
and both parties a greed to the revised terms  including MERP language . Regarding the MERP, 
Mayor Collins indicated general agreement, with the exception that the City would not be required 
to contribute for firefighters not actively working or contributing. Mr. Thoms concurred, and both 
parties approved the MERP language as presented by Ms. Ash. Discussion then turned to S ick 
Leave, Section 27, with agreement to allow day personnel to utilize sick leave. For accruals under 
Vacations, Section 26 #8, both parties agreed that a full month must be worked to qualify. 
Additional discussion addressed military leave and emergency leave scheduling under Vacations, 
Section 26 #7 and #8. Mr. Thoms proposed allowing daytime personnel to convert benefit hours 
using a correction factor; however, Mayor Collins declined due to differences between daytime 
and platoon shifts. Mr. Thoms subsequently withdrew the request. Mayor Collins and Mr. Thoms 
announced acceptance of all terms as discussed. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:36 p.m. 
      Submitted by, 
 
 
       Luisa Walsh, 
       Deputy City Clerk 
 
 This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 3, 2026 