MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2026-04-13 | CLIP_ID: 1091 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1091

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 13, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne (via Zoom), Tom Segrave, Jeff White 
and Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda). Upon request by Mr. Segrave, and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White, item #21 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by 
Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Moody and Mr. Wolfe , item #22 was 
removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support 
received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, item #31(c) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 23, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special  Meeting of the Governing Body on March 23, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions requested by Wyoming Statute § 15- 1-402 exists for about 1,259.91 acres of land 
located west of Roundtop Road and adjacent to Happy Jack Road.  Public comments were made 
by: Michael White, Sam Galleotos, Barry Myer, Steven Love, Carmen Cook, Paul Krempels, Rick 
Keslar, Minda Blevins, Gay Woodhouse, Charles Miller, and Mandie  Shattuck. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Moody, 
Mr. White, and Mr. Wolfe. There being no further comments or input and the purpose of the public 
hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located north of West College Drive and 
east of South Parsley Boulevard from PUD Harmony Valley Planned Unit Development to NR -3 
Neighborhood Residential - High Density. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Emmons 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. Public comment w as made by: Steven Love. Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich and Mayor Collins. 
(#4663) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of West Allison Road, west 
of Walterscheid Boulevard, and north of Grand Harmony Boulevard from PUD Harmony Valley 
Planned Unit Development to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential -  High Density. Dr. Emmons 
moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4664) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located north of Allison Road and west of 
Walterscheid Boulevard from AG Agriculture to NR-3  Neighborhood Residential -  High Density. 
Dr. Emmons moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4665) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located northwest of the intersection of East 
29th Street and Central Avenue from MR – Medium-Density Residential to NR-2 – Neighborhood 
Residential Medium-Density. Dr. Emmons moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4666) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Vacating Frank Court and a small segment of a 
previously vacated alley, north of Rock Springs Street, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located east of North College Drive and north of Rock Springs Street) . Dr. Emmons 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. (#4667) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 13.20.050, General Prohibitions, and 
Section 13.20.070, Local Limits, of Chapter 13.20 Wastewater Treatment and Disposal, of the 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to revise local discharge limits and related provisions in 
compliance with NPDES and WPDES permit requirements . Dr. Emmons moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 2.76.040, designation of Downtown 
Development District, of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, 
Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
expand the Downtown Development District. Dr. Emmons moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Mayor Collins and Mr. 
White. 
 
 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Appropriating money for the Reed Avenue Corridor 
Project. Reporting for Finance Committee, M r. Esquibel moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Laybourn. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Mr. Moody and Dr. Rinne  voting “no”. Public comments were made by: 
Brennan Westby and Charles Miller.  Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. 
Rinne, Mr. Wolfe and Mr. White. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of I -80, east of Southwest 
Drive from County LI Light Industrial, AG Agricultural, and AR Agricultural Residential to LI 
Light Industrial – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development –  
Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan and Section 5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development 
District of the Unified Development Code, amending Ordinance No. 4524 by modifying certain 
standards of t he adopted district, Planned  Unit Development (PUD), for Sweetgrass (located 
southeast of the intersection of College Drive and Avenue C)  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land west 
of Roundtop Road and adjacent to Happy Jack Road – referred to Public Services Committee . 
(Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of AG – Agricultural and P – Public for land 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne located west of Roundtop Road and adjacent to Happy Jack Road 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located west of Roundtop Road and adjacent 
to Happy Jack Road from AG – Agricultural to BP – Business Park – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 2900 
Central Avenue Townhomes, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of 
the intersection of East 29 th Street and Central Avenue). Dr. Emmons moved to adopt, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6521) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving and adopting the City of Cheyenne Crosswalk Criteria and 
Guidelines and confirming the authority of the City Engineer to implement crosswalk treatments. 
Dr. Emmons moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Laybourn. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. Public comments were made by: Carol Davi nroy and Bonnie  
Kruse. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn, 
Mr. Moody and Mr. White. (#6522) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving a proposition to impose the 1% Specific Purpose Sales and 
Use Tax in Laramie County, State of Wyoming, for the exclusive purpose of funding specific 
purposes for specific amounts; the propositions to be voted on at the election to be held on August 
18, 2026 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Bison 
Apartments, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located north of West College Drive, 
east of Grand Harmony Boulevard, and west of Walterscheid Boulevard – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for ONeil 
Edge, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located southwest of the intersection of West 
5th Street and O’Neil Avenue – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving an increase of the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown 
Development Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2025, and ending June 30, 2026 – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Overruling the Planning Commission’s disapproval of an amendment to 
the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne  changing the land use designation from Mixed- Use 
Residential to Mixed -Use Employment for property generally located south of I -80, east of 
Southwest Drive – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land 
use designation from Mixed- Use Residential to Mixed -Use Employment for property generally 
located south of I-80, east of Southwest Drive – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor 
– Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Dry Creek 
Vista, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (east of North College Drive and north of 
Rock Springs Street) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending City provided health insurance related benefits for specified 
permanent part-time City employees and members of the City Council of the City of Cheyenne  – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody) 
 
[CA]     Drainage Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and CBH Properties 
Cheyenne, LLC . for a recently constructed stormwater detention pond.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#8330) 
 
[CA]    Drainage Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Tractor Supply 
Company for a recently constructed stormwater detention pond. Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#8331) 
 
  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and McGee, Hearne & 
Paiz, LLP d/b/a MHP Assurance Services, LLP, for auditing the Annual Financial Statements of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming and its Board of Public Utilities (General Fund and BOPU). Mr. 
Esquibel moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $548,600.00 for the period of 3 years , 
seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. 
Laybourn. (#8332) 
 
[CA] Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Nick and April Ferrulli, 
c/o NAS Investment Group, LLC for property located at 803 West 16th Street, 1510 Reed Avenue, 
1508 Reed Avenue and 1506 Reed Avenue for Greenway and Compliance use (2021 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund and General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Drainage Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Christopher C. Post and 
Deborah L. Post, Trustees of the Post Revocable Trust for a recently constructed stormwater 
detention pond – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WM Recycle 
America, LLC for Recycling Services for the City of Cheyenne Sanitation Division (Solid Waste 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the U.S. Department of 
Transportation, Federal Transit Administration for a Section 5339(b) Competitive, and Section 
5339 Formula Grant for the Cheyenne Transit Facility Renovation at 1800 Westland Rd (FTA 
Section 5339 Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the U.S. Department of 
Transportation, Federal Transit Administration for a Section 5307 – Operating Assistance, ADA 
Paratransit Operating assistance, PM Vehicles/Facilities, & Capital Grant for the Cheyenne Transit 
System Program (FTA Section 5307 Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8169 between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group 
Inc., d/b/a Knife River for the 2025 City Overlay #1 Project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund). Mr. Esquibel advised that the item was reviewed under other business at the April 7, 2026, 
Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met. Mr. 
Esquibel moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $217,150.20, seconded by Mr. White.  
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the go verning body. Comment was made by the 
following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. (#8169) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #7955 between the City of Cheyenne and Trihydro 
Corporation for Landfill Mapping and Surveying Services (Solid Waste Fund ) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8259 between the City of Cheyenne and SPARE 
Labs Inc. for Transit Paratransit Dispatch System and new Fixed Route Tracking System (Transit 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 
 
[CA]  Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Fuel Management Solutions, 
Inc., for fuel site pump upgrades at the Prairie View Golf Course, and Airport Golf Course (Fleet 
Maintenance Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
131,844.36). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -20-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and 
Richardson Construction, Inc. for the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens -  Smith Education, Agriculture 
& Trial (E.A.T.) Garden (Friends of the Botanic Gardens) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-14-26 for furnishing Residential Automated Refuse Carts - 95/65 
Gallons, for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-15-26 for furnishing 1.5 Cubic Yard Rear -Load Dumpsters for 
the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-17-26 for furnishing Bituminous Asphalt Hot Mix, Tack Oil, and 
Cold Mix on an annual basis, for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019- 2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Musco Sports Lighting, LLC, 
for the purchase of a Mobile Video Trailer for the Community Recreation and Events Department 
(2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund, 2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund and META 
Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 
[CA] Application for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for Mongolian Bar & Grill, d/b/a Mongolian Bar & Grill, 1637 Stillwater Ave. Ste. C, Cheyenne, 
WY. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented.  
 
  Designation of the Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of 
Cheyenne at the June 4, 2026 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Summer Convention 
Business Meeting to be held in Laramie, Wyoming. Mr. Esquibel moved to designate Dr. Mark 
Rinne as the Official Voting Delegate and Mayor Patrick Collins as the Alternate Delegate,  
seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. 
Moody. 
 
Public comment s were made by the following under Other Business:  Noah Letcher , 
Southwest Regional Carpenters, and Charles Miller. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Moody. 
 
 
 
 Mr. Segrave moved to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4- 
405(a)(vii), seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open to the public 
and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the executive 
session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close of the 
executive session. The following staff members w ere in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s Chief 
of Staff; John Brodie, City Attorney; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer; and Kylie Soden, City 
Clerk.  
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:32 p.m.     
 
  
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 22, 2026 