MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2026-04-27 | CLIP_ID: 1093 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1093

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 27, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne  (arrived at 6:02 via Zoom), Tom 
Segrave, Jeff White and Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of 
allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda). Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Moody and Mr. White, item #15 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by 
Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Moody and Mr. Wolfe , item #29(a) was 
removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support 
received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, item #29(d) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 13, 2026 . Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 13.20.050, General Prohibitions, and 
Section 13.20.070, Local Limits, of Chapter 13.20 Wastewater Treatment and Disposal, of the 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to revise local discharge limits and related provisions in 
compliance with NPDES and WPDES permit requirements . Reporting for Public Services, Dr. 
Emmons moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich . Dr. Emmons 
moved to amend by substitute dated April 7, 2026, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend by 
substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Dr. Emmons moved to 
postpone to May 11, 2026, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body.   
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 2.76.040, designation of Downtown 
Development District, of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, 
Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
expand the Downtown Development D istrict. Dr. Emmons moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. (#4668) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Appropriating money for the Reed Avenue Corridor 
Project. Reporting for Finance Committee, M r. Esquibel moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. [Clerk’s note: Due to technical issues, no vote 
was recorded for Dr. Rinne].  Public comment w as made by:  Jim Walter, Visit Cheyenne . 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mr. 
Laybourn and Dr. Rinne. (#4669) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of I -80, east of Southwest 
Drive from County LI Light Industrial, AG Agricultural, and AR Agricultural Residential to LI 
Light Industrial . Dr. Emmons moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. W olfe. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development –  
Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan and Section 5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development 
District of the Unified Development Code, amending Ordinance No. 4524 by modifying certain 
standards of the adopted district, Plann ed Unit Development (PUD), for Sweetgrass (located 
southeast of the intersection of College Drive and Avenue C). Dr. Emmons advised there was no 
recommendation from Public Services Committee . Dr. Emmons moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Public comments were made by: Casey Palma, Palma Land Planning and Charles Miller. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins and Mr. Moody. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land west 
of Roundtop Road and adjacent to Happy Jack Road. Dr. Emmons advised  there was no 
recommendation from Public Services Committee . Dr. Emmons moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Dr. Emmons moved to amend by substitute dated April 15, 
2026, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend by substitute  carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. Mr. Segrave moved to refer the ordinance to the Public Services 
Committee, and the c ommittee to be instructed to report at the June 8, 2026 c ouncil meeting, 
seconded by Dr. Emmons. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by changing the date to the September 14, 
2026 council meeting, seconded by Dr, Emmons. Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. Motion to postpone as amended carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. During comments made by Charles Miller, Dr. Aldrich and Mr. 
White raised points of order that comments were off subject. Mayor Collins responded that 
comments were not germane to the subject . Public comments were made by: Cindy De Lancey, 
Holland and Hart , Tom Glissme yer, ViaWest Group, Gay Woodhouse , for Cox Ranch LLC, 
Heather Madrid, Jordan (no last name given), Conne r Nicklas, Falen Law Offices, representing 
land owner, Rick Keslar, Brendan Krachie, Thomas White, Sue Rocha, Brad Emmons, AVI, agent 
for applicant, Megan Plummer, Richard Lyle, Darrell Seifert, Alex Bowler , Cheyenne Area 
Landowners Coalition, Jack O’Neill, Skybox, Mark Eisele, King Ranch, Jane Lessenger , Sandy 
Walck, Sam Galeotos, Ann Margaret Burns, Michael White, Barry Meyer, Steve Johnson, Minda 
Blevins, Brian Pixley, Janet Tolman, Charles Miller, Chris Colson, Kathy Scigliano, Reba Eple r 
and Mandie Shattuck. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  
Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody, Mr. Segrave and Mr. Wolfe.  
 
 Following a brief recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 8:55 p.m. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING –Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of AG – Agricultural and P – Public for land 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne located west of Roundtop Road and adjacent to Happy Jack Road. 
Dr. Emmons advised there was no recommendation from Public Services Committee. Dr. Emmons 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Dr. Emmons moved to amend by 
substitute dated April 15, 2026, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend by substitute carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Mr. Segrave moved to refer the ordinance to 
the Public Services Committee, and the committee to be instructed to report at the September 14, 
2026 council meeting, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body  with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no” . During comments made by 
Charles Miller regarding the postponement, Mr. Moody and Mr. White raised points of order that 
comments were off subject. Mayor Collins responded that comments were not germane to the 
postponement. Public comment was made by: Charles Miller.  Comment was made by the 
following member of the governing body: Dr. Rinne. 
  
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located west of Roundtop Road and adjacent 
to Happy Jack Road from AG – Agricultural to BP – Business Park. Dr. Emmons advised there 
was no recommendation  from Public Services Committee . Dr. Emmons moved to approve  on 
second reading, seconded by Dr.  Aldrich. Mr. Segrave moved to refer the ordinance to the Public 
Services Committee, and the c ommittee to be instructed to report at the September 14, 2026 
council meeting, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. During comments made by Charles 
Miller regarding the postponement, Mr. Moody and Mr. Laybourn raised points of order that 
comments were off subject. Mayor Collins responded that comments were not germane to the 
postponement. Public comments were made by: Charles Miller, Jim Chiro and Chris Colson. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Mayor Collins and Dr. 
Rinne. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending enforcement and permitting requirements 
related to Oversized Vehicles and making conforming amendments  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving a proposition to impose the 1% Specific Purpose Sales and 
Use Tax in Laramie County, State of Wyoming, for the exclusive purpose of funding specific 
purposes for specific amounts; the propositions to be voted on at the election to be held on August 
18, 2026. Mr. Esquibel moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody. (#6523) 
 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Bison 
Apartments, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located north of West College Drive, 
east of Grand Harmony Boulevard, and west of Walterscheid Boulevard. Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6524) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for ONeil 
Edge, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located southwest of the intersection of West 
5th Street and O’Neil Avenue. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6525) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving an increase of the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown 
Development Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2025, and ending June 30, 2026. Mr. 
Esquibel moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody voting “no”. 
Public comments were made by: Alan Sheldon and Charles Miller. Comments  were made by the 
following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons and Mr. 
Moody. (#6526) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Overruling the Planning Commission’s disapproval of an amendment to 
the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land use designation from Mixed- Use 
Residential to Mixed -Use Employment for property generally located south of I -80, east of 
Southwest Drive. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6527) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land 
use designation from Mixed- Use Residential to Mixed -Use Employment for property generally 
located south of I-80, east of Southwest Drive. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6528) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Dry Creek 
Vista, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (east of North College Drive and north of 
Rock Springs Street). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6529) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Amending City provided health insurance related benefits for specified 
permanent part-time City employees and members of the City Council of the City of Cheyenne . 
Mr. Esquibel advised  there was no recommendation  from Finance Committee . Mr. Esquibel 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Moody. Mr. Segrave called for the question, seconded by Dr. 
Emmons. Motion to call for the question carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Main motion failed. Voting “no” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Mo ody voting “yes”.  Public comment was made by: Alan Sheldon. 
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2026 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
in accordance with the provisions of W.S. §§ 16- 4-112 & 16- 4-113 – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land 
use designation from Urban Transition Residential to Mixed- Use Employment for property 
generally located west of Roundtop Road and adjacent to Happy Jack Road and amending the 
Urban Service Boundary – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Appropriating excess funds from the November 2, 2021, One Percent 
(1%) Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax for the acquisition of real property – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the Title VI Program for the Cheyenne Transit Program for the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the submission of an 
application by the Cheyenne Transit Program to the Wyoming Department of Transportation for 
grant funding under the Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Grant  – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2026 and ending June 30, 2027 – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
 Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Nick and April Ferrulli, 
c/o NAS Investment Group, LLC for property located at 803 West 16th Street, 1510 Reed Avenue, 
1508 Reed Avenue and 1506 Reed Avenue for Greenway and Compliance use (2021 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund and General Fund). Mr. Esquibel moved to approve in an amount not to 
exceed $650,000.00, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. During comments made by Charles Miller, multiple points of order were raised 
that comments were off subject. Mayor Collins responded that comments were not germane to the 
subject. Public comments were made by: Charles Miller, Alan Sheldon and Jim Chiro. Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body:  Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn and 
Mr. Moody. (#8340) 
 
[CA] Drainage Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Christopher C. Post and 
Deborah L. Post, Trustees of the Post Revocable Trust for a recently constructed stormwater 
detention pond. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#8341) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WM Recycle 
America, LLC for Recycling Services for the City of Cheyenne Sanitation Division (Solid Waste 
Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $750,000.00 for 3 years). 
(#8342) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the U.S. Department of 
Transportation, Federal Transit Administration for a Section 5339(b) Competitive, and Section 
5339 Formula Grant for the Cheyenne Transit Facility Renovation at 1800 Westland Rd. (FTA 
Section 5339 Grant). Mr. Esquibel moved to approve in the amount of $4,143,600.00, seconded 
by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was 
made by the following member of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn. (#8343) 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the U.S. Department of 
Transportation, Federal Transit Administration for a Section 5307 – Operating Assistance, ADA 
Paratransit Operating assistance, PM Vehicles/Facilities, & Capital Grant for the Cheyenne Transit 
System Program (FTA Section 5307 Grant). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $3,291,390.00). (#8344) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and BNSF Railway for a BNSF Railway and Grant 
Applicant 22905 Agreement for the Reed Avenue Rail Crossing Elimination Project (2017 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #7955 between the City of Cheyenne and Trihydro 
Corporation for Landfill Mapping and Surveying Services  (Solid Waste Fund ). Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $49,008.00). (#7955) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8259 between the City of Cheyenne and SPARE 
Labs Inc. for Transit Paratransit Dispatch System and new Fixed Route Tracking System (Transit 
Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $78,000.00). (#8259) 
 
 Modification to Bid #E -4-25 for (3) Fire Apparatus for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Fire Rescue Department  (General Fund Reserves and 2027 -2030 Specific Purpose Option Tax 
Fund). Mr. Esquibel advised the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda  at the April 
21, 2026 Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met. 
Mr. Esquibel moved to approve with a savings of $44,035.06 on the original bid, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mayor Collins. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8218 between the C ity of Che yenne and AVI 
Engineering, PC for On -Call Engineering Services  (2022-2023 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund)  – 
referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -20-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and 
Richardson Construction, Inc. for the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens -  Smith Education, Agriculture 
& Trial (E.A.T.) Garden (Friends of the Botanic Gardens). Motion  (per Consent  Agenda) carried 
(in an amount not to exceed $854,891.21). (#8345) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-14-26 for furnishing Residential Automated Refuse Carts - 95/65 
Gallons, for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) . Motion (per consent agenda)  carried 
(accepted bid from Rehrig Pacific Company in an amount not to exceed $204,884.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-15-26 for furnishing 1.5 Cubic Yard Rear -Load Dumpsters for 
the Sanitation Division  (Solid Waste Fund) . Motion (per consent agenda) carried (accepted bid 
from Kois Bros Equipment in an amount not to exceed $88,472.00). 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-17-26 for furnishing Bituminous Asphalt Hot Mix, Tack Oil, and 
Cold Mix on an annual basis, for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019-2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . Motion (per consent agenda) carried (accepted bid from Simon 
Contractors for Bituminous Asphalt Hot Mix and Cold Mix in an amount not to exceed 
$495,750.00 and the bid from JTL Group Inc. d/b/a Knife River for Tack Oil  in an amount not to 
exceed $37,500.00, for a total of $533,250.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Musco Sports Lighting, LLC, 
for the purchase of a Mobile Video Trailer for the Community Recreation and Events Department 
(2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund, 2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund and META 
Grant). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $161,826.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-19-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp. for the Storey Boulevard Extension Construction project (2019- 2022 and 2023- 2026 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -21-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and 
Construction Specialists, Inc. for the Cheyenne Transit Facility - Interior and Exterior Renovations 
and Upgrades project (Board of Public Utilities and Federal Transit Administr ation & WYDOT 
Grants)  – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Appointment of Jason Powell, Brian Fenimore, and Paul Pomeroy to the Fire Code Board 
of Appeals; Justin Tripp to the Planning Commission; Cindy Orellana to the Housing and 
Community Development Advisory Council and Josephine Carlson to the Historic Preservation 
Board. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins  who did not vote (mayoral 
appointments). 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented.  
 
  Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 11, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
for a microbrewery permit application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Jagerhund Brewing, 
LLC d/b/a Jagerhund Brewing, 3521 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY. 
 
Public comment s were made by the following under Other Business:  Jim Chiro, Alan 
Sheldon and Charles Miller. During comments made by Mr. Miller, Mayor Collins ruled him out 
of order, stating his remarks were not accurate in relation to previous agenda items. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 10:06 p.m.     
  
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  May 6, 2026 