MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-05-11 | CLIP_ID: 1095 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1095

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 11, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Jeff White and Lawrence Wolfe. 
Absent: Tom Segrave. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda).  Upon request by Dr. Emmons, and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White, item #31(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request 
by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, item #30(a) 
was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Esquibel  moved to approve  remaining items , 
seconded by Mr. White. M otion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 27, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Public Hearing was held for a microbrewery permit application filed with the City Clerk’s 
Office for Jagerhund Brewing, LLC d/b/a Jagerhund Brewing, 3521 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, 
WY. Public comment was made by: Fred Hirsch, Jagerhund Brewing. Comment s were made by 
the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins  and Mr. Esquibel. There being no 
further comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins 
closed the public hearing and referred the application to the Finance Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 13.20.050, General Prohibitions, and 
Section 13.20.070, Local Limits, of Chapter 13.20 Wastewater Treatment and Disposal, of the 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to revise local discharge limits and related provisions in 
compliance with NPDES and WPDES permit requirements . Reporting for Public Services  
Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Dr. 
Rinne moved to postpone to May 26, 2026, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to postpone carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of I -80, east of Southwest 
Drive from County LI Light Industrial, AG Agricultural, and AR Agricultural Residential to LI 
Light Industrial. Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Wolfe . 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comments were 
made by: John Niles and John Sayers, agent and applicant. (#4670) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development –  
Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan and Section 5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development 
District of the Unified Development Code, amending Ordinance No. 4524 by modifying certain 
standards of the adopted district, Plann ed Unit Development (PUD), for Sweetgrass (located 
southeast of the intersection of College Dri ve and Avenue C). Dr. Rinne  advised there was no 
recommendation from Public Services Committee. Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. Public comments were made by: Casey Palma, Palma Land Planning, Charles Miller 
and Jim Chiro . Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Dr. Rinne, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. (#4671) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending enforcement and permitting requirements 
related to Oversized Vehicles and making conforming amendments . Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. Esquibel moved to approve on second  reading, seconded by Mr. White . Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. 
Laybourn and Mr. Moody voting “no”. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending and updating the Solid Waste Fee Schedule 
in accordance with Section 8.44.010 of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
and repealing Ordinance No. 4621 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located southwest of the intersection of HR 
Ranch Road and Judy Lee Drive, and southeast of HR Ranch Road and Judy Lee Drive, from JL 
Ranch PUD – Planned Unit Development to NR-2 Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for the various purposes in conducting the Municipal Government of said city and fixing 
the amount of General and Special Taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2026, and ending June 30, 2027 – referred 
to Committee of the Whole. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located in Cheyenne Business Park and 
Campstool Business Park in eastern Cheyenne along I-80 from LI – Light Industrial, HI – Heavy 
Industrial, and CB – Community Business to BP – Business Park – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Approving and establishing revised Water and Sewer 
Rates, Tap and System Development Fees, Administrative Fees, Service Charges and Penalties, 
and Septic and Commercial Waste Dump Rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities 
– referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Imposing a temporary twelve (12) month moratorium on 
the establishment, construction, or conversion of any buildings or structures for use as a data 
center, including any change of use to a data center  – referred to Public Services Committee . 
(Sponsor – Mr. Moody) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2026 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
in accordance with the provisions of W.S. §§ 16-4-112 & 16-4-113. Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6530) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Amending the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land 
use designation from Urban Transition Residential to Mixed- Use Employment for property 
generally located west of Roundtop Road and adjacent to Happy Jack Road and amending the 
Urban Service Boundary. Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Dr. Rinne moved to 
refer the resolution to the Public Services Committee, and the committee be instructed to report at 
the September 28, 2026 council meeting, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present. Public comment was made by: Michael White. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Appropriating excess funds from the November 2, 2021, One Percent 
(1%) Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax for the acquisition of real property. Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6531) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the Title VI Program for the Cheyenne Transit Program for the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6532) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the submission of an 
application by the Cheyenne Transit Program to the Wyoming Department of Transportation for 
grant funding under the Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Grant . Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6533) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2026 and ending June 30, 2027. Mr. Esquibel moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Mr. Esquibel moved to amend by substitute dated May 5, 2026, 
seconded by Mr. White. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. Main motion as amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. Public comments were made by: Dave Teubner, Downtown Development 
Authority President and Charles Miller. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Wolfe. (#6534) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the 
Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2026, and ending June 30, 2027 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in its application for, 
and acceptance of, federal assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration under the 
Bipartisan Infrastructure Act to assist in the reconstruction of General Aviation Apron and 
Taxiway A1 at the Cheyenne Regional Airport  – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. 
Esquibel, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave) 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in its application for, 
and acceptance of, federal assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration under the Airport 
Improvement Program to assist in the reconstruction of the General Aviation (GA) Apron a nd 
Taxiway A1 at the Cheyenne Regional Airport – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. 
Esquibel, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Polo 
Properties, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located south of E 12th Street, east of 
Crest Park Drive, and west of Cottonwood Drive  – referred to Public Services Committee . 
(Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Darnell 
Homesite 2nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located west of Ridge Road 
and east of Darnell Place – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Harmony 
Valley, 23rd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of West Allison 
Road, west of Walterscheid Boulevard and north of West College Drive)  – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
 Contract between the City of Cheyenne and BNSF Railway for a BNSF Railway and Grant 
Applicant 22905 Agreement for the Reed Avenue Rail Crossing Elimination Project (2017 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) . Mr. Esquibel moved to approve , seconded by Mr. White. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mr. Moody voting “no” . During comments made by Charles Miller, Mr. Moody and Mr. White 
raised points of order that comments were off subject. Public comment w as made by: Charles 
Miller. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins, 
Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. White. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Sunrise Engineering, 
LLC for the Yellowstone Road and Dell Range Boulevard Rehabilitation and Traffic 
Improvements Project (2015-2018 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8218 between the City of Cheyenne and AVI 
Engineering, PC for On-Call Engineering Services (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Dr. 
Rinne declared a conflict of interest and vacated council chambers. Mr. Esquibel moved to approve 
in an amount of $25,000.00, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting  “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present in council chambers with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting 
“no”. Public comment was made by Charles Miller. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. 
Moody and Mr. Wolfe.  Following announcement of the vote, Dr. Rinne returned to council 
chambers. (#8218)  
 
 Following a brief recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 7:50 p.m. 
 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S-19-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp. for the Storey Boulevard Extension Construction project (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund). Mr. Esquibel moved to accept the bid in an amount not to exceed $3,493,630.85, seconded 
by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting  “yes” – all members of the governing body present. During 
comments made by Mayor Collins, Dr. Rinne raised a Point of Order, stating that if he was taking 
a position on the matter, he should relinquish the chair . Public comments were made by: Troy 
Thompson, Laramie County Commissioner, Michael White, Charles Miller, Rodney Stone  and 
Mike Chavez.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. (#8349) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -21-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and 
Construction Specialists, Inc. for the Cheyenne Transit Facility - Interior and Exterior Renovations 
and Upgrades project (Board of Public Utilities and Federal Transit Administr ation & WYDOT 
Grants). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $2,169,500.00). 
(#8350) 
 
[CA]  Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Shannon Chastain 
Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Basic Equipment, for the purchase of a 240VT Split Drum Vibratory Roller 
with Tow Package for the Street & Alley Division  (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-19-26 for furnishing One (1) new 2026 or newer 3/4 Ton, Crew 
Cab, Full Size Pickup Truck, 4x4, with a 8- Foot Box and a Fleet Work Truck Package for the 
Traffic Division (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-20-26 for furnishing One (1) new 2026 or newer 1 Ton Dual Rear 
Wheels, 4-Door Cab, Full Size Pickup Truck, 4x4, with a 9- Foot Utility Box with Crane Support 
and a Fleet Work Truck Package for the Street and Alley Division (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E -21-26 for furnishing Three (3) new 2026 or newer 1/2 Ton, 
Regular Cab, Full Size Pickup Truck, 4x4, with a 6’ 4” Box and a Fleet Work Truck Package for 
the Animal Control Division (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund & General Fund) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-22-26 for furnishing One Fire Rescue Type 6 Wildland / Brush 
Fire Apparatus for the Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department (SLIB Mineral Royalty Grant) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-24-26 for furnishing One (1) new 2026 or newer 1/2 Ton, Crew 
Cab, Full Size Pickup Truck, 4x4, with a 6’ 4” Box and a Fleet Work Truck Package for the 
Landfill Division (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented.  
 
 
 
  Announcement was made that due to the Memorial Day holiday and City offices being 
closed on Monday, May 25, 2026, the regularly scheduled City Council meeting will instead be 
held on Tuesday, May 26, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. in the Municipal Building, City Council Chambers, 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY.  
 
Public comments were made by the following under Other Business: Charles Miller. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. 
 
Mr. Laybourn moved to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4-
405(a)(x) seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open to 
the public and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the 
executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close 
of the executive session. The following staff members were in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s 
Chief of Staff; John Brodie, City Attorney; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer; Kylie Soden, City 
Clerk and Chief Andrew Dykshorn, Cheyenne Fire Rescue. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:48 p.m.     
  
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  May 20, 2026 