MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-05-26 | CLIP_ID: 1097 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1097

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 26, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich (via Zoom), Dr. Kathy 
Emmons, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne  (arriving at 6:01 p.m.), 
Tom Segrave, Jeff White and Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge 
of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Expression of A ppreciation of the 2025- 2026 Mayor’s Youth Council and S tate of the 
Youth Address was made. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda).  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White, item #19 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by 
Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. W olfe, item #28(a) was 
removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. White moved to approve remaining items, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 11, 2026 . Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 13.20.050, General Prohibitions, and 
Section 13.20.070, Local Limits, of Chapter 13.20 Wastewater Treatment and Disposal, of the 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to revise local discharge limits and related provisions in 
compliance with NPDES and WPDES permit requirements . Reporting for Public Services  
Committee, Dr. Emmons moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. 
Dr. Emmons moved to postpone to June 8, 2026, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to postpone 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending enforcement and permitting requirements 
related to Oversized Vehicles and making conforming amendments . Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. Esquibel moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. White.  
Mr. Esquibel moved to amend by substitute dated May 19, 2026, seconded by Mr. White. Motion 
to amend by substitute  carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Dr. Aldrich 
moved to amend by removing size requirements  in Section 10.04.020, item 7, to include all 
recreational vehicles, seconded by Mr. White. Motion failed. Voting “no” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “yes”. Main motion as amened carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody 
and Mr. Segrave voting “no”. Public comments were made by: Corey Sutton and Steve Manning, 
I-25 RV Storage,  Jim Chiro and Kathy Scigliano. During comments made by Steve Manning, a 
point of order was raised that comments should go through the Chair. Comments were made by 
the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Moody, Mr. White 
and Mr. Wolfe. (#4672) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending and updating the Solid Waste Fee Schedule 
in accordance with Section 8.44.010 of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
and repealing Ordinance No. 4621. Mr. Esquibel moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. White. Mr. Esquibel moved to amend by substitute dated May 14, 2026, seconded by Mr. 
White. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
Main motion as amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Mr. Moody voting “no” . Public comment was made by: Dusty (no last name 
provided). Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins 
and Mr. Esquibel. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located southwest of the intersection of HR 
Ranch Road and Judy Lee Drive, and southeast of HR Ranch Road and Judy Lee Drive, from JL 
Ranch PUD – Planned Unit Development to NR-2 Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density. 
Dr. Emmons moved to approve on second  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. During comments made by Charles Miller, 
Mr. Moody and Mr. White raised points of order that comments were off subject. Mayor Collins 
responded that comments were not germane to the subject. Public comments were made by: 
Brandon Swain and Charles Miller. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Mayor Collins, Mr. Moody and Dr. Rinne.  
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for the various purposes in conducting the Municipal Government of said city and fixing 
the amount of General and Special Taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2026, and ending June 30, 2027. Reporting 
for Committee of the Whole, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
White. Mr. Segrave moved to amend the Police Administration Division Fund budget increasi ng 
it by $80,875.00 to hire an additional Community Service Officer and decreasing the City Council 
Division General Discretionary Fund by the same amount, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to 
amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Main m otion as amended 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment was made by: Alan 
Sheldon. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins 
and Mr. Wolfe. The following is a summary of the proposed budget including aforementioned 
amendment: General Fund, $82,765,026; Weed and Pest, $ 772,477; Youth Alternatives Grants, 
$921,795; Recreation Programs, $3,042,771; Community Development Block Grant, $1,330,510; 
Law Enforcement Grants, $ 257,676; Miscellaneous Federal Grants, $191,447; Transportation 
Planning, $1,565,913; Transit, $7,652,188; Juvenile Justice, $ 343,818; Youth Alternatives 
Mentoring, $30,966; Development Impact Fees, $1,591,900; One Percent Sales Tax, $14,895,668; 
Specific Purpose Option Tax, $530,923; Youth Activities, $16,600; Golf Facilities, $ 544,900; 
Fleet Maintenance, $ 7,125,091; Solid Waste Management, $ 22,728,525; Civic Center, 
$2,357,715; Ice &  Events Center, $1,030,045; Perpetual Care, $40,000; Self-Insurance 
$12,735,675; Total City, $162,471,629;  Water Enterprise, $ 52,662,400; Sewer Enterprise, 
$17,820,300; Total Appropriation, $232,954,329. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located in Cheyenne Business Park and 
Campstool Business Park in eastern Cheyenne along I-80 from LI – Light Industrial, HI – Heavy 
Industrial, and CB – Community Business to BP – Business Park. Dr. Emmons moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. During comments made by Michael 
Larson, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White raised points of order that comments were off subject. Mayor 
Collins responded that comments were not germane to the subject.  Public comments were made 
by: Heather Madrid, Charles Miller, Kathy S cigliano, Michael Larson, Christine (no last name 
provided), Daunte Rushton, Cheyenne LEADS, Matt Donis, Jessin White, Billy Richards, Susan 
Allen, Kay (no last name provided), Lillian (no last name provided), Katherine McAdams, Betsey 
Hale, Cheyenne LEADS, Elizabeth Marvin, Alan Sheldon, Harry Everley, Rachelle Zimmerman, 
Cheyenne LEADS and Marla Richards. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne  
and Mr. Segrave. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Approving and establishing revised Water and Sewer 
Rates, Tap and System Development Fees, Administrative Fees, Service Charges and Penalties, 
and Septic and Commercial Waste Dump Rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities. 
Mr. Esquibel moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public 
comments were made by: Alan Sheldon, Shawn Stewart, Charles Miller and Anna Blessing. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Imposing a temporary twelve (12) month moratorium 
on the establishment, construction, or conversion of any buildings or structures for use as a data 
center, including any change of use to a data center . Dr. Emmons advised there was no 
recommendation from Public Services Committee . Dr. Emmons moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion failed. Voting “no” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “yes”. During comments made by Charles Miller, multiple 
points of order  were raised  that comments were off subject.  Mayor Collins responded that 
comments were not germane to the subject.  Public comments were made by: I oana Ilies, Marcie 
Kindred, Executive Director of the Wyoming State A FL-CIO, David Pope, Cameron Warafley, 
Jim Chiro, Truett Thompson, President of  Local 415, Ryan Blue, David Richardson, Bejamin 
Frias, Adam (last name not provide d), Matthew Miles, Jeff Pope, Dominic Syracuse, Michelle 
Cobb, Paige Russell, Nick Hatton, Patricia McCoy and Sean Brad. Following a brief recess, Mayor 
Collins reconvened the meeting at 8:5 0 p.m. and continued with public comment  from the 
following: Heather Madrid, Tam ara Watts, Stace y Leach, Elizabeth Marvin, Hanna Jackson, 
Richard Lyle, Matt Donis, Jordan Cooper, John Narva, Chris Camargo, Ann Domah, Thomas 
White, Will Catrell, Tucker Fagan, Gary Brown, Crystal Edmons -Carter, Rob Turse, Local 192, 
Renny MacKay, Wyoming Business Alliance, Natanya Sam, Exie Brown, Cindy DeLancey, Billy 
Richards, Kristen Lee, Related Digital, Barbara Heritage, David Bush, Black Hills Energy, Minda 
Blevins, Sam Kidd, Jax Bruner, Shelly Russell, Rachelle Zimmerman, Cheyenne LEADS, Betsey 
Hale, Cheyenne LEADS,  Stephanie H irsch, Cheryl (no last name provided), Tyler Gibbs,  
Microsoft, Chris Tetlow,  Microsoft, Shae P hifer, Lisa Kennedy, Katherine McAdams, Rich 
Martin, Local 192, Shawn Stewart, Tony Laird, Donna Frausto , Pete Se ekell, Anna Blessing, 
Michael Stahl, Michael Larson, Kadi Bradfield, Paul Wing, Daniel Singh, Corey Lewis, Charles 
Miller and Alex Bowler, Cheyenne Area Land Owner’s Coalition. Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe.   
 
 Following a brief recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 12:01 a.m.  
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Defining the Terms and Conditions of Employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for July 2026 until the end of the Fiscal Year 
2027 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 1.4.3 and 5.8.8 of the Unified 
Development Code and creating Section 5.8.9 Carports to create definitions and standards for 
carports – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Moody) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 1.3.11 Nonconformities; 1.4.4 
Definitions; 1.4.5 Interpretation of Zoning Map; 2.2.7 Special Use Approval; 5.1.2 Zoning 
Districts Established; and 5.1.4 Use Table; and creating 5.6.10 Regional Entertainment (RE) 
Overlay District; and 5.7.13 Gaming Center Development Standards and setting an effective date 
for compliance – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Moody, Dr. 
Rinne, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 15.20, National Electrical Code 
Adopted – Appendix K, International Building Code – Administrative Provisions Adopted, of Title 
15, Buildings and Construction, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
updating the Incorporated National Electrical Code Provisions as specified – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Emmons) 
 
  RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the 
Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2026, and ending June 30, 2027. Mr. Esquibel moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” all members of the governing body. Public 
comments were made by: Jim Chiro, Charles Miller and Doug Bullock , Director of Aviation, 
Cheyenne Regional Airport . Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. (#6535) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in its application for, 
and acceptance of, federal assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration under the 
Bipartisan Infrastructure Act to assist in the reconstruction of General Aviation Apron and 
Taxiway A1 at the Cheyenne Regional Airport. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6536) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in its application for, 
and acceptance of, federal assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration under the Airport 
Improvement Program to assist in the reconstruction of the General Aviation (GA) Apron a nd 
Taxiway A1 at the Cheyenne Regional Airport. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6537) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Polo 
Properties, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located south of E 12th Street, east of 
Crest Park Drive, and west of Cottonwood Drive. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6538) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Darnell 
Homesite 2nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located west of Ridge Road 
and east of Darnell Place. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6539) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Harmony 
Valley, 23rd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of West Allison 
Road, west of Walterscheid Boulevard and north of West College Drive) . Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6540) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities to discharge 
uncollectible debts pursuant to Wyoming Statute 16- 4-502 – referred to Finance Committee . 
(Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to execute limited site access and due diligence 
agreements for City -owned property commonly known as Belvoir Ranch – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the acceptance of a donation for affordable housing 
purposes and authorizing the Mayor to execute a Donation Agreement  – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Sunrise Engineering, 
LLC for the Yellowstone Road and Dell Range Boulevard Rehabilitation and Traffic 
Improvements Project (2015-2018 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Mr. Esquibel moved to approve 
in an amount not to exceed $384,100.00, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” all 
members of the governing body. Public comment was made by: Charles Miller. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. 
Moody. (#8357) 
 
[CA]  Real Estate Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and KT Land Holdings 
LLC for 8.37 acres of land located at Lot 1 Block 1 Scenic Development 8th Filing, a portion of 
Section 20, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th p.m. Laramie County, Wyoming – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI Professional 
Corporation for the Parsley Blvd. and Wallick Rd. Extension Feasibility Study (MPO Funds)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #7535 between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield of 
Wyoming for third party administrator services and group health insurance benefits for City 
employees (Various City Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #8183 between the City of Cheyenne and Companion Life for Stop 
Loss Insurance for City employees (Various City Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6837 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental for group 
dental insurance benefits for City employees (Various City Funds)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA]  Contract Modification #2 to Contract #8199 between the City of Cheyenne and HDR 
Engineering, Inc., for the 18th Street Reconstruction Project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Shannon Chastain 
Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Basic Equipment, for the purchase of a 240VT Split Drum Vibratory Roller 
with Tow Package for the Street & Alley Division  (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $99,985.00). 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-19-26 for furnishing One (1) new 2026 or newer 3/4 Ton, Crew 
Cab, Full Size Pickup Truck, 4x4, with a 8- Foot Box and a Fleet Work Truck Package for the 
Traffic Division (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Fremont Motor Company, Lander, WY in an amount not to exceed 
$78,819.00). 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-20-26 for furnishing One (1) new 2026 or newer 1 Ton Dual Rear 
Wheels, 4-Door Cab, Full Size Pickup Truck, 4x4, with a 9- Foot Utility Box with Crane Support 
and a Fleet Work Truck Package for the Street and Alley Division (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( accepted bid from Fremont Motor Company, 
Lander, WY in an amount not to exceed $126,662.00). 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E -21-26 for furnishing Three (3) new 2026 or newer 1/2 Ton, 
Regular Cab, Full Size Pickup Truck, 4x4, with a 6’ 4” Box and a Fleet Work Truck Package for 
the Animal Control Division (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund & General Fund) . Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Fremont Motor Company, Lander, WY in an 
amount not to exceed $182,998.00). 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-22-26 for furnishing One Fire Rescue Type 6 Wildland / Brush 
Fire Apparatus for the Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department (SLIB Mineral Royalty Grant). Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from HME Ahrens-Fox, Wyoming, MI, in an amount 
not to exceed $343,854.00). 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-24-26 for furnishing One (1) new 2026 or newer 1/2 Ton, Crew 
Cab, Full Size Pickup Truck, 4x4, with a 6’ 4” Box and a Fleet Work Truck Package for the 
Landfill Division (Solid Waste Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( accepted bid from 
Fremont Motor Company, Lander, WY in an amount not to exceed $47,031.00). 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-23-26 for furnishing one 58K GVWR Lube Truck, 2026 or newer 
for the Fleet Division (Fleet Maintenance Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -17-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River for the 2026 Safe Routes to School project (Community 
Development Block Grant & ForMak Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Application for a microbrewery permit application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for 
Jagerhund Brewing, LLC d/b/a Jagerhund Brewing, 3521 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY. Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Urban Renewal Authority 2025 Annual Report. Mr. Segrave moved to acknowledge 
receipt of the report, seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented.  
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
  
Announcement was made that the Committee of the Whole will meet Tuesday June 2, 2026 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting.  
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, June 8, 2026 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities 
for Fiscal Year 2027. 
  
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, June 8, 2026 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute §15- 1-402 exist for about 2.69 acres of land south of Charles Street, east of 
Wenandy Avenue, and west of McKinley Avenue.  
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, June 8, 2026 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute §15- 1-402 exist for about 26.29 acres of land located northwest of the 
intersection of Clear Creek Parkway and Gannett Peak Drive.  
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, June 8, 2026 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for about 3,459.99 acres of land located east of South Greeley 
Highway and south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision.  
 
 
Public comments were made by the following under Other Business: Jim Chiro and Charles 
Miller.  
 
Mr. Segrave moved to elect Dr. Emmons as City Council Vice President due to a vacancy 
for the remainder of 2026, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion carried. Voting “yes” all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody voting “no” and Mayor 
Collins who did not vote. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, and Mr. Wolfe. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 12:38 a.m.     
  
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 4, 2026 