MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-06-08 | CLIP_ID: 1099 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1099

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 8, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel (via Zoom), Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne, Tom Segrave, Jeff White 
and Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda).  Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Moody and Mr. Segrave, item #27 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request 
by Mr. Wolfe, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, i tem #28 was 
removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support 
received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody, item #42(d) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. 
White moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 26, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Public Hearing for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities 
for Fiscal Year 2027. There being no comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing 
having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 Public Hearing  to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute §15- 1-402 exist for about 2.69 acres of land south of Charles Street, east of 
Wenandy Avenue, and west of McKinley Avenue. Public comment was made by: Brian Pixley.  
There being no further comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing having been met, 
Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 Public Hearing  to determine  whether compliance of annexation conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute §15- 1-402 exist for about 26.29 acr es of land located northwest of the 
intersection of Clear Creek Parkway and Gannett Peak Drive. Comment w as made by the 
following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. There being no further comments or input 
and the purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 Public Hearing  to determine  whether compliance of annexation conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for about 3,459.99 acres of land located east of South Greeley 
Highway and south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision. Public comment was made by: Jim Chiro, 
Heather Madrid, Brant Miller,  Laramie County Groundwater Control Board, Mark Christensen, 
AVI P.C, Agent for the applicant, Rachel Irwing, Lucas Downey and Brian Napier, Microsoft, 
Betsey Hale, CEO , Cheyenne LEADS, Brandon Swain and Charles Miller.  During comments 
made by Brian Napier, Mr. Moody raised a point of order that comments were off subject. During 
comments made by Charles Miller, Mr. Segrave and Mr. Moody raised points of or der that 
comments were off subject. Mayor Collins responded that comments were not germane to the 
subject. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, 
Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr.  Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. 
During comments made by Mr. Wolfe, points of order were raised that comments were off subject. 
Mayor Collins responded that comments were not germane to the subject. During comments made 
by Mr. Moody, Dr. Aldrich raised a point of order that comments were off subject. Mayor Collins 
responded that comments were not germane to the subject. During comments made by Mr. 
Laybourn, Dr. Aldrich raised a point of order that comments were off subject. There being no 
further comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins 
closed the public hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 13.20.050, General Prohibitions, and 
Section 13.20.070, Local Limits, of Chapter 13.20 Wastewater Treatment and Disposal, of the 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to revise local discharge limits and related provisions in 
compliance with NPDES and WPDES permit requirements . Reporting for Public Services  
Committee, Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was made by the 
following member of the governing body: Dr. Rinne. (#4673) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending and updating the Solid Waste Fee Schedule 
in accordance with Section 8.44.010 of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
and repealing Ordinance No. 4621. Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White  moved to 
approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Comment w as 
made by the following member of the governing body: Mayor Collins. (#4674) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located southwest of the intersection of HR 
Ranch Road and Judy Lee Drive, and southeast of HR Ranch Road and Judy Lee Drive, from JL 
Ranch PUD – Planned Unit Development to NR-2 Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density. 
Dr. Aldrich  moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons . Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment w as made by:  
Brandon Swain, Agent for the applicant. (#4675) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for the various purposes in conducting the Municipal Government of said city and fixing 
the amount of General and Special Taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2026, and ending June 30, 2027. Reporting 
for Committee of the Whole, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. White . Mr. Segrave  moved to amend to increase the Facilities Maintenance Divisio n 
Equipment budget line item by $250,000.00 from General Fund Reserves to purchase a Fleet 
Generator, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Mr. Segrave moved to amend to increase the Special Projects Division budget, 
Parks & Recreation Projects line item by $750,000.00 from General Fund Reserves for pavement 
improvements at Lions Park and Cahill Park, seconded by Mr. White . Motion to amend carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. 
Mr. Segrave  moved to amend  to increase the City Attorney Division budget by a total of 
$158,626.00 to fund an additional attorney position and decrease the City Council Divi sion 
General Discretionary line item by the same amount , seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Main motion as amended carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comments were made by: Charles Miller 
and Richard Johnson. During comments made by Charles Miller, Mr. Moody raised a point of 
order that comments were off subject. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody. (#4676) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located in Cheyenne Business Park and 
Campstool Business Park in eastern Cheyenne along I-80 from LI – Light Industrial, HI – Heavy 
Industrial, and CB – Community Business to BP – Business Park. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by substitute dated 
June 1, 2026, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion to amend by substitute  carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. Main motion as amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comment 
was made by: Charles Miller. Comment was made by the following member of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich. (#4677) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Approving and establishing revised Water and Sewer 
Rates, Tap and System Development Fees, Administrative Fees, Service Charges and Penalties, 
and Septic and Commercial Waste Dump Rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities. 
Mr. White moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. 
Public comment was made by: Charles Miller. Comments were made by the following members 
of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, and Mr. Segrave. (#4678) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Defining the Terms and Conditions of Employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for July 2026 until the end of the Fiscal Year 
2027. Mr. White moved to approve on second  reading, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 1.4.3 and 5.8.8 of the Unified 
Development Code and creating Section 5.8.9 Carports to create definitions and standards for 
carports. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Moody. Dr. Aldrich 
moved to amend by substitute dated May 28, 2026, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to amend by 
substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend 
Section 5.8.9(c)(1) and (c)(3) to remove the ability for the Director to allow, through administrative 
adjustment, for a 0 feet setback from a current or future sidewalk, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion 
to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Main motion as amended by 
substitute, as amended failed. Voting “no” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Dr. Emmons and Mr. Moody voting “yes”. Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Moody and Mr. Wolfe. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 1.3.11 Nonconformities; 1.4.4 
Definitions; 1.4.5 Interpretation of Zoning Map; 2.2.7 Special Use Approval; 5.1.2 Zoning 
Districts Established; and 5.1.4 Use Table; and creating 5.6.10 Regional Entertainment (RE) 
Overlay District; and 5.7.13 Gaming Center Development Standards and setting an effective date 
for compliance . Dr. Aldrich  moved to approve on second  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comments were made 
by: Traci Lacock, general counse l, Wyoming Downs and 307 Horse Racing and Gunnar Malm, 
County Commissioner. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave, and Mr. Wolfe. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 15.20, National Electrical Code 
Adopted – Appendix K, International Building Code – Administrative Provisions Adopted, of Title 
15, Buildings and Construction, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
updating the Incorporated National Electrical Code Provisions as specified. Dr. Aldrich moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: 
Mayor Collins.  
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of Charles Street, east of Wenandy Avenue, and west of McKinley Avenue – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AR Agricultural Residential for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located south of Charles Street, east of Wenandy Avenue, and west of 
McKinley Avenue – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway and Gannett Peak Drive – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of LI -  Light Industrial for land annexed to the 
City of Cheyenne, located northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway and Gannett Peak 
Drive – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located north and south of West Wallick 
Road and west of Interstate 25 from LI Light Industrial, CB -  Community Business and PUD -  
Planned Unit Development to BP -  Business Park  – referred to Public Services Committee . 
(Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land east 
of South Greeley Highway and south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of AG - Agricultural for land annexed to the City 
of Cheyenne located east of South Greeley Highway and south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located east of South Greeley Highway and 
south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision from AG - Agricultural and PUD - Planned Unit Development 
to BP - Business Park – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located between I -80 and College Drive, 
east of Southwest Drive from MUB Mixed- Use Business Emphasis to LI Light Industrial  – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of I-80, east of College Drive 
from AG Agricultural to BP Business Park – referred to Public Services Committee . (Sponsor – 
Mr. Segrave) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities to discharge 
uncollectible debts pursuant to Wyoming Statute 16-4-502. Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded 
by Mr. Wolfe. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment 
was made by: Charles Miller. Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins and Mr. Wolfe. (#6541) 
 
  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to execute limited site access and due diligence 
agreements for City-owned property commonly known as Belvoir Ranch. Dr. Aldrich moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Mr. Wolfe moved to amend by substitute dated June 8, 2026, 
seconded by Mr. Laybourn. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. Main motion as amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comment was made 
by: Charles Miller. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor 
Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. (#6542) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the acceptance of a donation for affordable housing 
purposes and authorizing the Mayor to execute a Donation Agreement. Mr. White moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no” . Public comments were made by: Charles Miller and 
Heather Madrid. During comments made by Charles Miller, Mr. White raised a point of order that 
comments were off subject. Mayor Collins responded that comments were not germane to the 
subject. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and 
Mayor Collins. (#6543) 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming State Loan 
and Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving Fund for an 
amount not to exceed $20,000,000.00 for the Lead Service Line Investigation and Replacement 
Project and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk, and Director of the Board of Public Utilities to 
execute the application and all related documents – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Esquibel) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of a Transportation Alternatives Program 
Grant Application for the Pershing Boulevard and Windmill Road Intersection Project  – referred 
to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the acceptance of a donation from Tallgrass ILS Holdings, 
LLC for affordable housing purposes and authorizing the Mayor to execute a Donation Agreement 
– referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Harmony 
Valley 24th Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located north of West College 
Drive and east of Parsley Boulevard – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Overruling the Planning Commission’s disapproval of an amendment to 
the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land use designation from 
Agricultural/Rural and Urban Residential to Mixed- Use Employment and amending the Urban 
Service Boundary for property generally located east of South Greeley Highway and south of the 
Sweetgrass Subdivision – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land 
use designation from Agricultural/Rural and Urban Residential to Mixed- Use Employment and 
amending the Urban Service Boundary for property generally located east of South Greeley 
Highway and south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Overruling the Planning Commission’s disapproval of an amendment to 
the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land use designation from Mixed- Use 
Residential to Mixed-Use Employment for property generally located between I -80 and College 
Drive, east of Southwest Drive – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land 
use designation from Mixed- Use Residential to Mixed -Use Employment for property generally 
located between I -80 and College Drive, east of Southwest Drive  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 
 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Overruling the Planning Commission’s disapproval of an amendment to 
the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land use designation from Urban 
Residential, Mixed-Use Residential, Mixed-Use Commercial and Community Business to Mixed-
Use Employment and removing the extension of East Allison Road from the Master Transportation 
Plan Map for property generally located south of I -80, east of College Drive  – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land 
use designation from Urban Residential, Mixed -Use Residential, Mixed -Use Commercial and 
Community Business to Mixed-Use Employment and removing the extension of East Allison Road 
from the Master Transportation Plan Map for property gener ally located south of I -80, east of 
College Drive – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving water and sanitary sewer services by Outside User Agreement 
for King Ranch Company, LP, for Lot 1, Block 1, North Range Business Park, 15th Filing (located 
north of I-80, west of Roundtop Road)  – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Segrave) 
 
 Real Estate Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and KT Land Holdings 
LLC for 8.37 acres of land located at Lot 1 Block 1 Scenic Development 8th Filing, a portion of 
Section 20, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th p.m. Laramie County, Wyoming. Mr. 
White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $2,645,000.00, seconded by Dr. Aldrich . 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. 
Moody voting “no” . Public comment was made by: Charles Miller.  During comments made by 
Charles Miller, Mr. White raised a point of  order that comments were off subject. Mayor Collins 
responded that comments were not germane to the subject. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins and Dr. Emmons. (#8363) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI Professional 
Corporation for the Parsley Blvd. and Wallick Rd. Extension Feasibility Study (MPO Funds) . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $252,522.97). (#8364) 
 
[CA]  Minimum Revenue Guaranteed Payment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
the Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team (CRAFT) for Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2027 
(2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Industrial and Economic Development Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS) for the 
period of July 1, 2026 to June 30, 2027 (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne 
Downtown Development Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2026 and ending June 
30, 2027 (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives and Laramie 
County School District Number One to provide Crisis Response Services (Revenue to the City) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #7535 between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield of 
Wyoming for third party administrator services and group health insurance benefits for City 
employees (Various City Funds). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7535) 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #8183 between the City of Cheyenne and Companion Life for Stop 
Loss Insurance for City employees (Various City Funds) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  
(#8183) 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6837 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental for group 
dental insurance benefits for City employees (Various City Funds). Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6837) 
 
  Contract Modification #2 to Contract #8199 between the City of Cheyenne and HDR 
Engineering, Inc., for the 18th Street Reconstruction Project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund). Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $313,197.00, seconded by Mr. 
Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White. (#8199) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8286 between the City of Cheyenne and Matzen 
Brandon LLC for Public Defender Services (General Fund Reserves)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-23-26 for furnishing one 58K GVWR Lube Truck, 2026 or newer 
for the Fleet Division (Fleet Maintenance Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted 
bid from Floyd’s Truck Center, Inc., Cheyenne, WY, in an amount not to exceed $472,997.90). 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -17-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River for the 2026 Safe Routes to School project (Community 
Development Block Grant & ForMak Grant). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the 
bid in an amount not to exceed $671,369.00). (#8365) 
 
[CA]  Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Americas Freedom Tribute, 
for the purchase of a Vietnam War Memorial Wall for the Community Recreation and Events 
Department (One Time State Distribution Funds and Parks Enhancements)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented.  
  
Public comments were made by the following under Other Business: Richard Johnson and 
Charles Miller. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich and Dr. Emmons. 
Mr. Segrave moved t o meet in Executive Session pursuant to Wyoming Statute  §16-4-
405(a)(x), seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open to the public 
and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the executive 
session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close of the 
executive session. The following staff members were in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s Chief 
of Staff; David Hopkinson, Deputy City Attorney; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer; Kylie Soden, 
City Clerk and Chief Andrew Dykshorn and Deputy Chief Don Wood, Cheyenne Fire Rescue. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 10:00 p.m.    
  
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 17, 2026 