MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-06-23 | CLIP_ID: 1103 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1103

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 22, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins (via Zoom joining at 7:11 p.m. and leaving at 9:18 p.m.) COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark 
Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne (via Zoom joining at 6:06 p.m.), Tom Segrave, Jeff White and Lawrence 
Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda). Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Moody and Mr. White , item #19 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Dr. Aldrich 
moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 8 , 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Defining the Terms and Conditions of Employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for July 2026 until the end of the Fiscal Year 
2027. Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Esquibel  moved to approve on third and final  
reading, seconded by Mr. M oody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich. 
(#4679) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 1.3.11 Nonconformities; 1.4.4 
Definitions; 1.4.5 Interpretation of Zoning Map; 2.2.7 Special Use Approval; 5.1.2 Zoning 
Districts Established; and 5.1.4 Use Table; and creating 5.6.10 Regional Entertainment (RE) 
Overlay District; and 5.7.13 Gaming Center Development Standards and setting an effective date 
for compliance. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by substitute dated June 
15, 2026, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Mot ion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. Main motion as amended by substitute carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comments were made by: Traci Lacock, 
General Counsel, Wyoming Downs and 307 Horse Racing. (#4680) 
 
 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Chapter 15.20, National Electrical Code 
Adopted – Appendix K, International Building Code – Administrative Provisions Adopted, of Title 
15, Buildings and Construction, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
updating the Incorporated National Electrical Code Provisions as specified. Dr. Aldrich moved to 
approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#4681) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of Charles Street, east of Wenandy Avenue, and west of McKinley Avenue . Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AR Agricultural Residential for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located south of Charles Street, east of Wenandy Avenue, and west of 
McKinley Avenue. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comment was 
made by: Charles Miller.  During Mr. Miller’s comments, Mr. Wolfe raised a point of order that  
comments were off subject.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Wolfe. During comments made by Mr. Wolfe, Dr. Aldrich raised a 
point of order that comments were off subject. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway and Gannett Peak Drive. Dr. Aldrich moved 
to approve on second  reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no” . Public 
comment was made by: Charles Miller. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Emmons and Mr. Wolfe.  
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of LI -  Light Industrial for land annexed to the 
City of Cheyenne, located northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway and Gannett Peak 
Drive. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Moody voting 
“no”. Public comment was made by: Charles Miller. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located north and south of West Wallick 
Road and west of Interstate 25 from LI Light Industrial, CB -  Community Business and PUD -  
Planned Unit Development to BP -  Business Park. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. Public comments were made by: Charles Miller and Mark Christensen, A VI, P.C., 
Agent for the applicant.  
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land east 
of South Greeley Highway and south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Mr. Wolfe moved to refer the ordinance to the Public 
Services Committee, and the committee be instructed to report at the November 9, 2026 council 
meeting, seconded by Mr. Laybourn. Motion failed. Voting “no” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of  Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, and Mr. Wolfe  voting “yes”. During Mr. 
Wolfe’s comments regarding the postponement, Mr. White raised a point of order that comments 
were off subject.  Main motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, and Mr. Wolfe voting “no” . Public comments were 
made by: Charles Miller, Michael White, Brad Emmons, AVI P.C., Agent for the applicant, Rachel 
Irwing, Microsoft, Lucas Downey, Microsoft, Jim Chiro, Thomas White, Wendy Volk, Heather 
Madrid, Kay McAdams, Richard Lysle, Donna Frausto, Penny Hollenbach, Maren Kallas, Daunte 
Rushton, Cheyenne LEADS, Gregory Barrow, Elizabeth Marvin, Johnathan Noble, Microsoft, 
Don Taylor, Janet Tolman, Rob Turse, Local Union 192, and Ioana Ilies. Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of AG - Agricultural for land annexed to the City 
of Cheyenne located east of South Greeley Highway and south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision. Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Mr . 
Moody voting “no” . Public comments  were made by: Don Stamm, Charles Miller,  and Brad 
Emmons, AVI, P.C., Agent for the applicant.  
 
 Following a brief recess, President Segrave reconvened the meeting at 9:35 p.m. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located east of South Greeley Highway and 
south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision from AG - Agricultural and PUD - Planned Unit Development 
to BP - Business Park. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Mr. Wolfe voting “no” . Public comments were made by: Charles 
Miller, Mandie Shattuck, Stephen Love, Brad Emmons, A.V.I., Agent for the applicant, Amanda 
Agusta, Microsoft, Kevin Banish, Microsoft, Brian Church, Microsoft  and Casey Mullikin, 
Microsoft.  
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located between I -80 and College Drive, 
east of Southwest Drive from MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis to LI Lig ht Industrial. Dr. 
Aldrich advised there was no recommendation from  Public Services Committee. There being no 
motion offered to approve, the ordinance died due to lack of a motion. 
 
  
 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of I-80, east of College Drive 
from AG Agricultural to BP Business Park. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on second  reading, 
seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present 
with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no” . Public comments were made by: Brad Emmon s, 
AVI, P.C., A gent for the applicant, Rachel Irwing, Microsoft, Lucas Down ey, Microsoft, Troy 
Amick and Stan Reed . Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Esquibel. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming State Loan 
and Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving Fund for an 
amount not to exceed $20,000,000.00 for the Lead Service Line Investigation and Replacement 
Project and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk, and Director of the Board of Public Utilities to 
execute the application and all related documents. Mr. Esquibel moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comment 
was made by: Charles Miller. Comment w as made by the following member of the governing 
body: Mr. Laybourn. (#6544) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of a Transportation Alternatives Program 
Grant Application for the Pershing Boulevard and Windmill Road Intersection Project . Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6545) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the acceptance of a donation from Tallgrass ILS Holdings, 
LLC for affordable housing purposes and authorizing the Mayor to execute a Donation Agreement. 
Mr. Esquibel moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no” . Public comments 
were made by: Charles Miller, Lee Filer and Casey Palma. Comment w as made by the following 
member of the governing body: Mr. Esquibel. (#6546) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Harmony 
Valley 24th Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located north of West College 
Drive and east of Parsley Boulevard. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6547) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Overruling the Planning Commission’s disapproval of an amendment to 
the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land use designation from 
Agricultural/Rural and Urban Residential to Mixed- Use Employment and amending the Urban 
Service Boundary for property generally located east of South Greeley Highway and south of the 
Sweetgrass Subdivision. Dr. Aldrich moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Dr. Aldrich moved 
to postpone to July 13, 2026, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no” . 
Public comments were made by: Charles Miller and Brad Emmons, A.V.I., Agent for the applicant. 
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn. 
 
 
 
 RESOLUTION – Amending the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land 
use designation from Agricultural/Rural and Urban Residential to Mixed- Use Employment and 
amending the Urban Service Boundary for property generally located east of South Greeley 
Highway and south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision. Dr. Aldrich moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. 
Emmons. Dr. Aldrich moved to postpone to July 13, 2026, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Mot ion to 
postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comment was made by: Charles Miller. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Overruling the Planning Commission’s disapproval of an amendment to 
the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne  changing the land use designation from Mixed- Use 
Residential to Mixed-Use Employment for property generally located between I -80 and College 
Drive, east of Southwest Drive. Dr. Aldrich advised there was no recommendation from  Public 
Services Committee. Dr. Aldrich moved to adopt. Motion died due to lack of a second. Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. Public 
comment was made by: Charles Miller. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Amending the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land 
use designation from Mixed- Use Residential to Mixed -Use Employment for property generally 
located between I-80 and College Drive, east of Southwest Drive . Dr. Aldrich advised there was 
no recommendation from Public Services Committee . Dr. Aldrich moved to adopt. Motion died 
due to lack of a second. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Overruling the Planning Commission’s disapproval of an amendment to 
the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land use designation from Urban 
Residential, Mixed-Use Residential, Mixed-Use Commercial and Community Business to Mixed-
Use Employment and removing the extension of East Allison Road from the Master Transportation 
Plan Map for property generally located south of I-80, east of College Drive. Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6548) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Amending the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land 
use designation from Urban Residential, Mixed -Use Residential, Mixed -Use Commercial and 
Community Business to Mixed-Use Employment and removing the extension of East Allison Road 
from the M aster Transportation Plan Map for property generally located south of I -80, east of 
College Drive. Dr. Aldrich moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public 
comment was made by: Charles Miller.  Comment was made by the following member of the 
governing body: Mr. White. (#6549) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving water and sanitary sewer services by Outside User Agreement 
for King Ranch Company, LP, for Lot 1, Block 1, North Range Business Park, 15th Filing (located 
north of I-80, west of Roundtop Road). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6550) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to accept and implement certain 
pledged funds from ForMak, a 501(c)(3) non- profit organization, in support of Safe Routes to 
School improvements and the purchase and installation of related traffic control devices – referred 
to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Swan 
Ranch Rail Park, 21st Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of 
Interstate 25 and north of West Wallick Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor 
– Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA]  Minimum Revenue Guaranteed Payment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
the Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team (CRAFT) for Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2027 
(2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( in an amount 
not to exceed $380,928.80). (#8372) 
 
[CA]  Industrial and Economic Development Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS) for the 
period of July 1, 2026 to June 30, 2027 (General Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in 
an amount not to exceed $100,000.00). (#8373) 
 
[CA]  Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne 
Downtown Development Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2026 and ending June 
30, 2027 (General Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#8374) 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives and Laramie 
County School District Number One to provide Crisis Response Services (Revenue to the City) . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $300,854.00). (#8375) 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and First & Union Apartments LP for 8.37 
acres of land at the northwest corner of Converse Avenue and Carlson Street (Revenue to the City) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] 2026-2027 Collective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne 
Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Office of Homeland 
Security for the 2025 State Homeland Security Program – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc. for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities 
during the 2026 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebration (Revenue to the City)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8286 between the City of Cheyenne and Matzen 
Brandon LLC for Public Defender Services (General Fund Reserves) . Mr. Esquibel  moved to 
approve in an amount not to exceed $36,000.00, seconde d by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody. (#8286) 
 
 
 
  Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Americas Freedom Tribute, 
for the purchase of a Vietnam War Memorial Wall for the Community Recreation and Events 
Department (One Time State Distribution Funds and Parks Enhancements) . Mr. Esquibel moved 
to approve in an amount not to exceed $275,000.00, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comments were made by: 
Gordon ‘Alf’ Parks, Sophia Maes and Tyler Neff. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody and Mr. 
Wolfe. (#8376) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -16-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the 2026 Dell Range Overlay project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -13-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the 2026 City Overlay #1 project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -18-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Miller 
and Sons Construction Inc. for the 2026 City Overlay #2 project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -22-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Legacy 
Construction Group for the Christensen Road Detention Erosion Mitigation project (2012 & 2017 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Reappointments of Deputy Sheriff Timothy Johnson, Lieutenant Joel Hickerson, Kathy 
Emmons, Jeffrey O’Holleran and Mike Beitz to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services 
Joint Powers Board; Anthony Ortiz to the Tourism Promotion Joint Powers Board; Andi 
Mikkelson, Richard Vallee, Michael Rucker and JC Manalo to the Transit Advisory Board; Katye 
Ames to the Urban Renewal Authority Board and Jasper James “JJ” Chen to the 
Cheyenne/Laramie County Economic Development Joint Powers Board. Dr. Aldrich moved t o 
approve, seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing 
body present. 
 
Appointments of Michael Sanchez to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services 
Joint Powers Board; Bria Hammock and Barbara Sandick to the Downtown Development 
Authority and Josie Malloy to the Tourism Promotion Joint Powers Board. Dr. Aldrich moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. White . Motion carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing 
body present. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented.  
 
 
 
 Announcement was made that a calcutta benefitting Cheyenne area charities will be held 
on Saturday, July 25, 2026 at 5:30 p.m. in the Cowboy Bistro, located beside the Rodeo Committee 
Cabin at Frontier Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the 2026 Cheyenne Frontier 
Days Rodeo (10% of proceeds go to bona fide charities). 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 13, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting 
for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Cheyenne Railyard 
LLC d/b/a The Railyard – Cheyenne, 115 W. 15th St., Cheyenne, WY. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 13, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting 
to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15- 1-
402 exist for about 34.46 acres of land located west of Roundtop Road and south of Happy Jack 
Road. 
  
Public comments were made by the following under Other Business:  Jim Ridgeway and 
Charles Miller. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Esquibel. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 11:28 p.m.    
  
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 1, 2026 