MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-07-13 | CLIP_ID: 1120 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1120

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 13, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn (arriving at 6:02), Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne, Tom Segrave, Jeff 
White and Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was 
recited. 
 
 Proclamation recognizing members of the Cheyenne Laramie County America 250 
Commission. Mayor Collins read the proclamation into the record and expressed appreciation to 
members of the Commission. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda). Upon request by Mayor Collins, and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White, items #22 and #26(b) were removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. 
Segrave moved to approve  remaining items , seconded by Dr. Aldrich. M otion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 22, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Cheyenne Railyard LLC d/b/a The Railyard – Cheyenne, 115 W. 15th 
St., Cheyenne, WY. There being no comments or input and the purpose of the public hearing 
having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15- 1-402 exist for about 34.46 acres of land located 
west of Roundtop Road and south of Happy Jack Road. Public comments were made by: Brad 
Emmons, AVI, P.C., Agent for the applicant , David Kniseley, Heather Madrid, Kay McAdams, 
Jim Chiro, Donna D undon, Charles Miller, Brian Pixley, Janet  Tolman and Thomas White . 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Segrave and Mr. Wolfe. There being no further comments or input and the purpose 
of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of Charles Street, east of Wenandy Avenue, and west of McKinley Avenue . 
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
(#4682) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AR Agricultural Residential for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located south of Charles Street, east of Wenandy Avenue, and west of 
McKinley Avenue. Dr. Aldrich m oved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Dr. 
Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comments 
were made by: Charles Miller, Kay McAdams, David Kniseley, Dakota Titus, Linda Camp, Janet 
Tolman, Heather Madrid and Kathy Scigliano . Comments were made by the following members 
of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons and Mr. Esquibel. (#4683) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway and Gannett Peak Drive. Dr. Aldrich moved 
to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public 
comments were made by: David Kniseley, Heather Madrid, Jim Chiro, Dakota Titus, Kathy 
Scigliano, Chris Camargo, Stacy Leach, Betsey Hale, CEO Cheyenne LEADS, Charles Miller and 
Sawyer (no last name provided). During comments made by David Kniseley, Dr. Aldrich raised a 
point of order that comments were off topic. Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons , Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Segrave , Mr. 
White and Mr. Wolfe. (#4684) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of LI -  Light Industrial for land annexed to the 
City of Cheyenne, located northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway and Gannett Peak 
Drive. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting 
“no”. Public comments were made by: Charles Miller, Danielle Cox and Kay McAdams. (#4685) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located north and south of West Wallick 
Road and west of Interstate 25 from LI Light Industrial, CB -  Community Business and PUD -  
Planned Unit Development to BP - Business Park. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no” . Public comments were made by: Charles 
Miller and Janet Tolman. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Mayor Collins and Dr. Rinne. (#4686) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land east 
of South Greeley Highway and south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Mr. Moody moved to strike the words “upon 
its publication” in Section 5 and replace with “on January 25, 2027”, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. 
Motion failed. Voting “no” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. 
Laybourn and Mr. Moody voting “yes”. Mr. Moody moved to recommit the ordinance to the 
January 19, 2027 Public Services Committee meeting, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Motion failed. 
Voting “no” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody 
and Mr. Wolfe voting “yes”. M ain motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of  Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, and Mr. Wolfe voting “no”. Public 
comments were made by: Stacey Leach, Ann Lucas, Ben Fri as, Maren Kallas, Jim Chiro, Peggy 
Gates, Dakota Titus, Robin Kell ey, Donna Dundon, Brad Emmons, AVI, P.C., Agent for the 
applicant, Todd Youmans , Rachel Irwing, Microsoft, Adonis Trujillo , Microsoft, Ted Hanlon, 
Terry Bell, Troy Amick, Danielle Cox, Staci Balcaen , Microsoft, Marla M uirbrook, Kelly 
Moriarity, Mary Goodwin, Jeff McPartland, Microsoft, Daniel Singh, Baylie Evans, Kathy White, 
Daunte Rushton, Cheyenne LEADS , Jane Lessenger, Kay McAdams, Heather Madrid,  M. Lee 
Hasenauer, Lynne Davis, Thomas White, Donna F rausto, Alex Bowler, Cheyenne Landowners 
Coalition, Lance Gold, Microsoft, Al Gates, Hannah Jackson and Janet Tolman.  Following a brief 
recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 10:10 p.m. and public comment continued: David 
Kniseley, Shae Phifer, Jane Lessenger, Elizabeth Marvin, Anna Cordova, Kathy Scigliano, Charles 
Miller, Chris Camargo and Nicole Little. During comments made by David Knisely, Mr. Segrave 
raised a point of order that comments  were off topic. During comments made by Charles Miller , 
Mayor Collins ruled him out of order related to comments being off topic. Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. (#4687) 
 
 Mr. Wolfe moved to adjourn, seconded by Mr. Laybourn. Motion failed. Voting “no” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Mr. Wolfe 
voting “yes”.  
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of AG - Agricultural for land annexed to the City 
of Cheyenne located east of South Greeley Highway and south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision. Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody 
and Mr. Wolfe voting “no”. Public comments were made by: Charles Miller, Janet Tolman, Shae 
Phifer and Jane Lessenger. (#4688) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located east of South Greeley Highway and 
south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision from AG - Agricultural and PUD - Planned Unit Development 
to BP - Business Park. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of 
Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Mr. Wolfe voting “no”.  Public comments were made by: Al Gates 
and Charles Miller. (#4689) 
 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification for land located south of I-80, east of College Drive 
from AG Agricultural to BP Business Park. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on third and final  
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comments were made by: Brad 
Emmons, AVI, P.C., Agent for the applicant, Dan Reed, Charles Miller and Troy Amick. (#4690)  
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land west 
of Roundtop Road and south of Happy Jack Road – referred to Public Services Committee . 
(Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of BP – Business Park for land annexed to the 
City of Cheyenne, located west of Roundtop Road and south of Happy Jack Road – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Overruling the Planning Commission’s disapproval of an amendment to 
the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne  changing the land use designation from 
Agricultural/Rural and Urban Residential to Mixed- Use Employment and amending the Urban 
Service Boundary for property generally located east of South Greeley Highway and south of the 
Sweetgrass Subdivision. Dr. Aldrich moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody 
and Mr. Wolfe voting “no”. Public comments were made by: Charles Miller and Mandie Shattuck. 
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Mr. Wolfe. (#6551) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Amending the Future Land Use Map of PlanCheyenne changing the land 
use designation from Agricultural/Rural and Urban Residential to Mixed- Use Employment and 
amending the Urban Service Boundary for property generally located east of South Greeley 
Highway and south of the Sweetgrass Subdivision. Dr. Aldrich moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of 
Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Moody and Mr. Wolfe  voting “no”. Comment was made by the following 
member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. (#6552) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to accept and implement certain 
pledged funds from ForMak, a 501(c)(3) non- profit organization, in support of Safe Routes to 
School improvements and the purchase and installation of related traffic control devices . Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6553)  
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Swan 
Ranch Rail Park, 21st Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of 
Interstate 25 and north of West Wallick Road) . Dr. Aldrich moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment was 
made by: Charles Miller. (#6554) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Adopting the 2026 Program Year Annual Action Plan for the City of 
Cheyenne Community Development Block Grant Entitlement Program  – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Memorandum of Understanding with 
participating counties, cities and towns, regarding the allocation of Impact Assistance Funds 
associated with the Laramie Range Wind Project application before the Industrial Siting Council  
– referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for A&H 
Park at Sweetgrass, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of East College 
Drive and west of Sweetgrass Drive)  – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Dr. 
Aldrich) 
 
 Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and First & Union Apartments LP for 8.37 
acres of land at the northwest corner of Converse Avenue and Carlson Street (Revenue to the City). 
Mr. Esquibel moved to approve in an amount of $4,521.64 per month for the term of 50 years, 
seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Mr. Esquibel moved to amend by substitute dated July 9, 2026, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend by substitute  carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Main motion as amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comment was made by: 
Charles Miller. (#8386)  
 
 2026-2027 Collective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne 
Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters. Mr. Esquibel moved 
to approve, seconded by Mr. Moody. Mr. Esquibel moved to amend Section 21, Classification of 
Employment and Basic Wages, EMS Pay, to strike $.97 and replace with $.77 for EMT Basic for 
Shift 40-hour, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. Mr. Esquibel moved to amend by removing the footnote on page 28, seconded 
by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Laybourn voting “yes” . Main motion as 
amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comments were made 
by: Chris Thoms, President, Local No. 279 and Charles Miller. During comments made by Charles 
Miller, Dr. Emmons raised a point of order that comments were off topic. Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. 
Esquibel and Mr. Segrave. (#8387) 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Office of Homeland 
Security for the 2025 State Homeland Security Program. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in 
an amount of $92,108.00). (#8388) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc. for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities 
during the 2026 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebration (Revenue to the City). Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount of $15,000.00). (#8389) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for Animal Control 
Services (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County and Cheyenne Animal Shelter 
for Animal Shelter Services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and 
Laramie County for housing prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center (General Fund)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Laramie County 
Sheriff’s Department for the housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services 
Center (General Fund)– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives and 
Cheyenne Regional Medical Center (CRMC) for suicide/homicide assessments and prevention 
services (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Terracon Consultants 
Inc. for Landfill Leachate System Design, Modification, and Maintenance (Solid Waste Fund)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -16-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the 2026 Dell Range Overlay project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid in an amount not to exceed $1,026,502.00). 
(#8390) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -13-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the 2026 City Overlay #1 project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid in an amount not to exceed $1,838,027.50). 
(#8391) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -18-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Miller 
and Sons Construction Inc. for the 2026 City Overlay #2 project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (a ccepted the bid in an amount not to exceed 
$1,877,787.35). (#8392) 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S -22-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Legacy 
Construction Group for the Christensen Road Detention Erosion Mitigation project (2012 & 2017 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) . Mr. Esquibel moved to accept the bid in an amount not to 
exceed $314,905.00, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Mr. Esquibel moved to postpone to July 27, 2026, 
seconded by Mr. White. Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Public comment was made by: Charles Miller. 
 
 
 
[CA]   Consideration of Bid #S -23-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River for the Christensen Road Settlement Bridge Approach project (2012 
& 2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]   Consideration of Bid #S-24-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Bone Dry 
Commercial Roofing, Inc. for the 2026 Various Roof Replacements  project (2019-2022 Optional 
1% Sales Tax Fund, One Time State Distribution Funds and WARM Insurance Proceeds) –  
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-26-26 for furnishing ten (10) new Four-Door 2026/2027  Model 
Utility Police Interceptors for the Cheyenne Police Department (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -27-26 for furnishing one (1) new 2026 or newer Broce 350 
Sweeper for the Street and Alley Division (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -28-26 for the surplus sale of evidence seized firearms & 
Department owned firearms for the Cheyenne Police Department (Revenue to the City) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Complete Ice Arena Services 
for the purchase of a used Olympia Millenium E-Steel Ice Resurfacer for the Ice and Events Center 
(2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Samsara for camera hardware 
and software for Cheyenne Transit Program transit vehicles (Transit Program Funds) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of RFP #6- 26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and FCI 
Constructors of WY, for the Construction Manager at Risk Services for Cheyenne Municipal 
Building Renovation & potential City Council Building & Second Floor Municipal Court 
Renovation (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund & General Fund)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 Appointment of Jenefer Pasqua to the Community Action of Laramie County Board. Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body  with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral 
appointments). 
 
 Public comment was made by the following on the Voucher Report as presented: Charles 
Miller.  
  
Public comment was made by the following under Other Business: Charles Miller. 
 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Wolfe. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 1:41 a.m.    
  
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 23, 2026 