MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-07-27 | CLIP_ID: 1122 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1122

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 27, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Tom Segrave,  Jeff White  and 
Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda). Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn 
voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on Ju ly 13, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land west 
of Roundtop Road and south of Happy Jack Road. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public 
comments were made by: Kay McAdams and Charles Miller. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of BP – Business Park for land annexed to the 
City of Cheyenne, located west of Roundtop Road and south of Happy Jack Road. Dr. Aldrich 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by D r. Emmons. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public comment 
was made by: Charles Miller. During comments made by Charles Miller, Mayor Collins ruled the 
comments out of order for being off topic. 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Adopting the 2026 Program Year Annual Action Plan for the City of 
Cheyenne Community Development Block Grant Entitlement Program . Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6555) 
 
  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Memorandum of Understanding with 
participating counties, cities and towns, regarding the allocation of Impact Assistance Funds 
associated with the Laramie Range Wind Project application before the Industrial Siting Council. 
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Esquibel moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. 
Moody voting “no”. Public comments were made by: Wendy Volk, Charles Miller and Richard 
Lysle. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins, 
Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Segrave and Mr. Wolfe. (#6556) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for A&H 
Park at Sweetgrass, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of East College 
Drive and west of Sweetgrass Drive). Dr. Aldrich moved to adopt with staff recommendations #1 
and #2(b), seconded by Mr. Wolfe. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend staff recommendations to add #3 
(a) to read “Prior to development action: A plan for instillation of all necessary public and private 
improvements be in place and assurance by bond or certified check or a development agreement 
or other written legal obligations be approved by the City. The development agreement shall be 
drafted by the applicant and reviewed and agreed upon by the Planning and Development Director 
and the City Engineer ”, seconded by Dr. Emmons . Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. Main motion as amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. Public comment was made by: Charles Miller. Comment was made by the 
following member of the governing body: Mr. White. (#6557) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for Animal Control 
Services (Revenue to the City) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) ca rried (in an amount of 
$156,850.00). (#8400)  
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County and Cheyenne Animal Shelter 
for Animal Shelter Services (General Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $650,000.00). (#8401) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and 
Laramie County for housing prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center (General Fund).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#8402) 
 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Laramie County 
Sheriff’s Department for the housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services 
Center (General Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#8403) 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives and 
Cheyenne Regional Medical Center (CRMC) for suicide/homicide assessments and prevention 
services (Revenue to the City). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#8404) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Terracon Consultants 
Inc. for Landfill Leachate System Design, Modification, and Maintenance (Solid Waste Fund) . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $85,000.00). (#8405) 
 
[CA]  Preventative Maintenance Contract between the City of Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department 
and Stryker Corporation for a three (3) year maintenance service contract for all City medical 
devices (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI PC for Storey 
Boulevard and Summit Drive Construction Administration Services (2023- 2026 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S -22-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Legacy 
Construction Group for the Christensen Road Detention Erosion Mitigation project (2012 & 2017 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) . Mr. Esquibel moved to accept the bid in an amount not to 
exceed $314,905.00, seconded by Mr. Moody. Mr. Esquibel moved to postpone to August 10, 
2026, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
[CA]   Consideration of Bid #S -23-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River for the Christensen Road Settlement Bridge Approach project (2012 
& 2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $224,369.00). (#8406) 
 
   Consideration of Bid #S-24-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Bone Dry 
Commercial Roofing, Inc. for the 2026 Various Roof Replacements  project (2019-2022 Optional 
1% Sales Tax Fund, One Time State Distribution Funds and WARM Insurance Proc eeds). Mr. 
Esquibel moved to accept the bid in an amount not to exceed $283,130.00, seconded by Mr. Wolfe. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. 
Moody voting “no”. Public comment was made by: Charles Miller. Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Moody, 
Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. (#8407) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-26-26 for furnishing ten (10) new Four-Door 2026/2027  Model 
Utility Police Interceptors for the Cheyenne Police Department (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( accepted the bid from Duval Ford, LLC , 
Jacksonville, FL, in an amount not to exceed $684,758.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -27-26 for furnishing one (1) new 2026 or newer Broce 350 
Sweeper for the Street and Alley Division (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid from TransSource Truck and Equipment, Casper, WY, 
in an amount not to exceed $81,758.32).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -28-26 for the surplus sale of evidence seized firearms & 
Department owned firearms for the Cheyenne Police Department (Revenue to the City) . Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried ( accepted the bid from ProForce Marketing, Inc. in an amount not 
to exceed $48,638.70).  
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Complete Ice Arena Services 
for the purchase of a used Olympia Millenium E-Steel Ice Resurfacer for the Ice and Events Center 
(2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $128,400.00).  
 
 
 Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Samsara for camera hardware 
and software for Cheyenne Transit Program transit vehicles (Transit Program Funds). Mr. Esquibel 
moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $133,044.72, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting 
“no”. Public comment was made by: Charles Miller. Comment was made by the following member 
of the governing body: Dr. Rinne. (#8408)  
 
 Consideration of RFP #6- 26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and FCI 
Constructors of WY, for the Construction Manager at Risk Services for Cheyenne Municipal 
Building Renovation & potential City Council Building & Second Floor Municipal Court 
Renovation (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund & General Fund) . Mr. Esquibel moved to 
approve in an amount not to exceed $30,000.00, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Public 
comment was made by: Charles Miller. Comments were made by the following member s of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. White and Mr. Wolfe. (#8409) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-12-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Northstar 
Concrete for the 2026 Miscellaneous Concrete project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund)  
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -14-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Vance 
Brothers LLC for the 2026 Surface Seal project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-15-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Z and Z 
Seal Coating Inc. for the 2026 Crack Seal project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Application for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for Cheyenne Railyard LLC d/b/a The Railyard – Cheyenne, 115 W. 15th St., Cheyenne, WY. 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
  
 Appointment of Stephen Hanlon to the Historic Preservation Board; and Gavin Lobmeyer 
to the Board of Adjustment. M r. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White . Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins 
who did not vote (mayoral appointments) and Mr. Moody voting “no”. Comments were made by 
the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody.  
 
 Public comment was made by the following on the Voucher Report as presented: Charles 
Miller. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins 
and Dr. Rinne 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented.   
  
Public comments were made by the following under Other Business:  Jimmy Chiro and 
Charles Miller. 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:14 p.m.    
  
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 5, 2026 