MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2026-08-10 | CLIP_ID: 1124 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 1124

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 10, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel (arriving at 6:02), Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne, Tom Segrave and 
Jeff White. Absent: Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk.  The pledge of 
allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda ). Dr. Rinne declared a conflict of interest related to agenda item 
#8(b) and vacated Council Chambers . Upon request by Mr. Moody, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White, item #10(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. 
Mr. Segrave moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers . Following 
announcement of the vote, Dr. Rinne returned to Council Chambers. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on Ju ly 27, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land west 
of Roundtop Road and south of Happy Jack Road. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Dr. Emmons. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Moody voting 
“no”. Public comments were made by: Heather Madrid, Brian Pixley  and Charles Miller.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Dr. 
Emmons. (#4691) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, establishing the zoning classification of BP – Business Park for land annexed to the 
City of Cheyenne, located west of Roundtop Road and south of Happy Jack Road. Dr. Aldrich 
moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by M r. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. 
Public comments were made by: Heather Madrid and Charles Miller. (#4692) 
 
[CA]  Preventative Maintenance Contract between the City of Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department 
and Stryker Corporation for a three (3) year maintenance service contract for all City medical 
devices (General Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$121,389.60 for three years). (#8414) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI PC for Storey 
Boulevard and Summit Drive Construction Administration Services (2023- 2026 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $196,334.40). 
(#8415) 
 
[CA]  Memorandum of Understanding between City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, 
and Laramie County School District Number One for the School Resource Officers Program 
(Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA]  Professional Service Agreement between City of Cheyenne and Ardurra Group, Inc. for 
Operation Modification at the Pershing, Converse, and 19th Street Roundabout (2023- 2026 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA]  Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8374 between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2026 and 
ending June 30, 2027 (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S -22-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Legacy 
Construction Group for the Christensen Road Detention Erosion Mitigation project (2012 & 2017 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund). Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to accept 
the bid in an amount not to exceed $314,905.00, seconded by Mr. Moody . Mr. White moved to 
postpone to August 24, 2026, seconded by Mr. Moody. Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present. Public comment was made by: Charles Miller. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mayor 
Collins. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-12-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Northstar 
Concrete for the 2026 Miscellaneous Concrete project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid in an amount of $500,175.00). (#8416) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -14-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Vance 
Brothers LLC for the 2026 Surface Seal project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid in an amount not to exceed $2,305,075.26) . 
(#8417) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-15-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Z and Z 
Seal Coating Inc. for the 2026 Crack Seal project (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid in an amount not to exceed $443,239.68).  
(#8418) 
 
 Public comment was made by the following on the Voucher Report as presented: Charles 
Miller. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Rinne. 
 
 
 An announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 24, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a transfer of location and ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the 
City Clerk's Office for Capital City Hospitality, LLC d/b/a Wyoming Discount Liquor, 3501 E. 
Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by 1734 Partners, LLC, 1734 Meadowland 
Dr., Cheyenne, WY). 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, and Mr. White. 
 
Mr. Segrave moved to meet in E xecutive Session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4-
405(a)(iii), seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open to 
the public and stated there may be action taken by the governing body as a result of the executive 
session, and that the regular City Council meeting would not officially conclude at the close of the 
executive session. The following staff members were in attendance: Amber Ash, Mayor’s Chief 
of Staff; John Brodie , City Attorney and Kylie Soden. [Clerk’s Note: Mr. Laybourn left prior to 
executive session].  
 
Mr. Segrave moved to authorize the City Attorney to investigate, prepare, and, in the 
exercise of the City Attorney's professional judgment, to commence and prosecute a declaratory 
judgment action under the Uniform Declaratory Judgments Act, seeking a judicial determination 
of whether an Annexation Ordinance is subject to the municipal referendum process or whether 
the annexation-challenge procedure of Wyo. Stat. Ann. § 15-1-409 controls to the exclusion of the 
referendum, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no”. Comments were made by 
the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Moody, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:23 p.m.    
  
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 15, 2026 