MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2009-11-23 | CLIP_ID: 123 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 123

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
November 23, 2009
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS:
Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr.
Valdez.  Members of Boy Scout Troop 112 led those present in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dor r, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  T here will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Brown
and Ms. Ash, agenda item #14 a. was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Collins m oved to
approve the remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
– all members of the governing body.
[CA] MINUTES FROM REGULAR MEETING OF THE GOVERNING BODY ON NOVEMBER
9, 2009.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] MINUTES FROM VOUCHERS MEETING OF THE GOVERNING BODY ON NOVEMBER
16, 2009.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. S piker moved t o approve payment o f vouchers as presented, including t hose vouchers
carried over from the Nov. 16, 2009 Vouchers meeting of the governing body, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Spiker moved to divide the question to allow for
a separate vote o n t he voucher payable t o Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Mr.
Spiker moved to approve payment of the voucher payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, seconded
by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  F ollowing an nouncement o f t he v ote, Mr . Brown r eturned t o Co uncil Ch ambers.
Discussion followed on vouchers payable to the following: VISA/UMB, professional license dues to
Wyo. Bd. o f CPAs for police dept. employee, employee travel related expenses, and business lunch
(food) meeting expenditure involving cert ain Council members and City Attorney staff; Behavioral
Interventions, equipment rental fee containing sales tax; First Presbyterian Church, reimbursement for
window re pair; C heyenne L ight, F uel a nd P ower, p ortion of  p ayment du e involving s treet l ights;
Laramie Co. Treasurer, reimbursement due to overpayment received on specific purpose optional tax
amount; Knife River, overlay expense for VA parking lot in conjunction with Henderson Flood Control
project, a nd Verizon Wi reless, c ell p hone c harges l isted f or P arks & R ecreation D ept.  D uring
discussion on the business lunch meeting expense (payable to VISA/UMB), Ms. Broyles indicated her
name was listed in the voucher explanation and clarified that she was not a participant in the meeting
and t hat h er n ame s hould b e removed with M ayor K aysen stating h er co mment wo uld b e n oted.
Responding to inquiries and providing information available on the aforementioned vouchers during
discussion w ere: B arb D orr, C ity T reasurer; L t. M ark M unari, P olice D ept., D oug V etter, C ity
Engineer, and Mayor Kaysen.  Motion to approve remaining vouchers as presented carried.  Voting
“yes” – all members of the governing body.
“AN ORDINANCE REPE ALING SE CTION 9.08. 030, GA MBLING-PROHIBITED-
EXCEPTIONS, A ND SE CTION 9.08. 040, VIOL ATIONS BY  OW NER OR  OC CUPANT OF
PREMISES WHERE GAMBLING CONDUCTED, OF TITLE 9, PUBLIC PEACE AND WELFARE,
CHAPTER 9.08, OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND DECENCY, OF THE CHEYENNE
CITY CODE” – referred to Public Services Committee (due to postponement from Sept. 14, 2009).
“AN OR DINANCE A MENDING TI TLE 17,  Z ONING, CHAPTER 17.08,  Z ONING
DISTRICTS E STABLISHED A ND SE CTION 17.08. 040 CHEYENNE CIT Y M AP OF  T HE
CHEYENNE CITY CODE, BY CHANGING THE ZONING CLASSIFICATION FROM LI LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT TO CB COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT FOR A PORTION OF
LOTS 6-17, AND VACATED 16' ALLEY, BLOCK 405, ORIGINAL CITY, CH EYENNE,
WYOMING ( LOCATED SOUTH OF  A ND ADJACENT T O W . L INCOLNWAY, E AST OF
STINSON AVENUE).” Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on
second r eading, s econded by Mr. Collins.  M otion c arried.  V oting “yes” –  a ll m embers o f t he
governing body.
“AN O RDINANCE A MENDING A  P ORTION OF T HE CI TY O F CHE YENNE’S
SANITATION FEE SCHEDULE PERTAINING TO THE RECYCLE RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION
MONTHLY FEE, AS APPROVED BY ORDINANCE NO. 3851 ON JUNE 8, 2009.”  Reporting for
Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mr.
Valdez moved to postpone to Dec. 14, 2009, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Discussion followed on the
purpose of postponement.  Upon inquiry Jim Elias, Public Works Director, advised information is being
compiled by staff on recycling program operational costs, and advised a substitute ordinance has been
prepared due to additional discussions on the monthly recycling fee.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting
“no” – al l members of t he go verning body.  M r. Collins moved to amend by substitute o rdinance,
seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Elias explained the substitute removes wording related to a discounted
fee based on residential water usage as proposed in the initial ordinance, and provides options for use
of smaller recycling containers,  every other week pickup service that would be available to residences
and churches, and a 95 gallon container commercial collection monthly fee.  He further explained 95
vs. 60 gallon containers that would be available; that residents’ “opt out” to decline a container would
still involve a monthly fee based on the resident’s current sanitation container size being utilized, and
that the overall intent of the program is to encourage recycling efforts to reduce the amount of materials
being disposed of in the landfill.  Discussion included written comments and questions on the recycling
program and current monthly fee as presented and submitted by Do n Erickson during t he Finance
Committee meeting; current economy and effect on operational costs relative to the recycling market
and program costs; staff information on services, equipment and costs being researched and compiled;
overall program master plan; usage of recycling blue bins located throughout the City and collection,
transporting and disposal costs; fairness issues involving different sized households; container sizes;
mandatory f ee r elative to f inancial b urdens f or those on  f ixed i ncomes; c urrent ti pping f ees f or
transporting solid waste to the Colorado outlet, and single stream recycling programs involving a fee
vs. voluntary recycling efforts.  Mr. Pierson moved to amend the proposed substitute by revising the
following fee areas, seconded by Mr. Valdez: Private Residences and Churches Every Other Week
Services – Re cycle res idential collection m onthly f ee (60 gal lon co ntainer) f rom $3. 00 t o $2. 00;
combination 60 gallon trash/60 gallon recycle containers from $16.00 to $15.00, and combination 60
gallon t rash/95 gal lon recy cle co ntainers f rom $18. 00 t o $17. 00.  Di scussion o n t he pro posed
amendment followed a nd included initial fees for t he curb side recycling pilot pro gram in t he Sun
Valley area, and input from Mr. Elias concerning the proposed change in fee amount affiliated with the
60 gallon trash/95 gallon recycle containers.  Pursuant to Mr. Elias’ comments, Mr. Pierson corrected
his previous motion to amend to exclude the proposed change to the combination 60 gallon trash/95
gallon recycle containers amount, with concurrence by Mr. Valdez as second to the motion.  Comments
continued o n r ecycle c ontainer s izes; p rogram c osts b eing c ompiled b y P ublic Wo rks s taff;
comprehensive recycle plan; budget expenses for program operations vs. cost of service, and revenue
stream affiliated with continuation of a recycling program.  M otion to amend the substitute carried.
Voting “yes” –  Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. P ierson, Mr. S piker, Mr. V aldez a nd Mayor Kaysen.
Voting “no” – Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins and Dr. Rinne.  Discussion followed on the structure
of the ordinance relative to the order in which the fee areas were listed (it was noted that pursuant to
the amendment, the listing order of amounts would be revised); number of 60 gallon recycle containers
currently available and acquisition of additional containers; benefits of a curbside recycling program;
past and future educational efforts to inform the public of program components, and level of interest
from commercial businesses in participating in the container program.  Motion to amend by substitute,
as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Case
voting “no.”  R equest was made that more green bins be placed throughout the community.  M ain
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of
Ms. Case voting “no.”
“A R ESOLUTION A UTHORIZING TH E M AYOR A ND TH E C ITY C OUNCIL TO
CONDUCT A M EETING WI TH T HE BOARD O F D IRECTORS O F T HE D OWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY AND OTHER INTERESTED PARTIES TO DISCUSS FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT NEEDS OF THE GREATER CHEYENNE DOWNTOWN AREA.”  Mr. Brown
moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Case.  Discussion included allowing transition time for the DDA
Board t o c omplete it s p rocess in s electing a  n ew director a nd a cclimating n ew members r ecently
appointed to the Board; recent failure of the DDA District mill levy special election ballot question;
input by t he governing bo dy t o t he ne w d irector a nd D DA B oard m embers o f e xpectations a nd
communications, and DDA goals.  Mr. Pierson moved to amend to add the following sentence at the
end of the Now Therefore Be It  Resolved clause, seconded by Mr. Spiker:  T his meeting shall take
place after a new DDA director is employed and working for 60 days or more and, therefore, becoming
accustomed to their job duties and current situations.  Comments in support and non-support of the
proposed amendment followed.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins,
Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” – Ms. Ash, Ms. Case
and Mr. Brown.  Ms. Broyles moved to amend the same clause within the Resolution by inserting the
words “and managers” following the word “owners”, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  D iscussion on the
proposed amendment followed and included the scope of the Resolution; involvement by DDA District
stakeholders on issues affecting managers of businesses in which owners of the business properties are
non-local; stakeholder communication issues, and that the holding of a public meeting would include
the op portunity for business managers w ithin th e D istrict to  a ttend w ithout r equiring a  c hange to
Resolution wording.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins,
Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” – Ms. Ash, Ms. Case and Mr.
Valdez.  Following further comments on voter turnout and dissemination of information connected with
the recent DDA District special election, motion to adopt as twice amended failed.  Voting “yes” – Ms.
Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Pierson and Mr. Valdez.  Voting “no” – Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins, Dr.
Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mayor Kaysen.
LEASES/CONTRACTS/LEGAL:
[CA] Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives,
and Wyoming Department of Family Services, for grant funding for Intensive Support Mentoring for
youth in the Municipal Court System – referred to Finance Committee.
CHANGE ORDERS/CONTRACT MODIFICATIONS:
Change Order No. 1 to Bid #R-31-08 between the City of Cheyenne and Kubat Equipment and
Service Co. for additional work needed to complete installation of the above ground vaulted tank and
fueling system for the Parks Maintenance Building, located at 4500 Dell Range Blvd. (2003-2006 1%
Sales T ax).  M r. V aldez m oved t o a pprove i n t he a mount o f $ 1,895.00, seconded by Ms. As h.
Discussion included timeliness of payments to contractors and, upon inquiry, project information from
Sara Vasquez, Assistant Purchasing Director.
Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5357 between the City of Cheyenne and S&S
Builders, LLC for additional services for the Carey Avenue Extension Project  (2007-2010 1% Sales
Tax).  Mr. Valdez reported there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr.
Valdez moved to approve in the amount of $32,447.28, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Upon inquiry, Sara
Vasquez, Assistant Purchasing Director, confirmed payment had already been made to the contractor
but pay ment o f ret ainage h ad n ot y et b een rel eased, an d Do ug Vet ter, Ci ty E ngineer, pro vided
information on the work that was needed in the final stages of the project due to unforeseen conditions,
and t he us e o f force accounts.  Di scussion i ncluded t he f ollowing t opics: T imeliness o f co ntract
modifications s ubmitted fo r approval; c oncern w ith f orce a ccount f unds; a dministrative
communications involving City Co uncil an d n otification o f t imely an d/or emergency-type co ntract
modifications, a nd c urrent e conomic c onditions, p roject c osts a nd budgetary c oncerns.  D uring
discussion Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, provided the amount of funding balance of the street renovation
1% sales tax fund, noting an additional amount will be included in the next fiscal year budget due to
ongoing sales tax collections, and Mr. Vetter indicated staff is formulating plans and designs for next
fiscal year’s  overlay program.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr.
Collins, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” – Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne and Mr.
Spiker.  M ayor Ka ysen a dvised he  ha s be en c ommunicating w ith s taff to e valuate p ractices a nd
procedures involving contract modifications, and that a project tracking form has been developed to
share as a communication tool with City Council members.
[CA] Contract Mo dification No . 2 t o Co ntract No . 53 16 b etween t he City o f Cheyenne and J2
Contracting for additional materials and labor for construction of David R. Romero South Cheyenne
Community Park (State Loan & Investment Board) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Bid No. M-5-09 between the City of Cheyenne and RECCO,
Inc. d /b/a Fi ve-R-Co. f or a dditional w ork a nd a menities f or t he Cheyenne Y outh Ac tivity a nd
Community Center (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
CONSIDERATION OF BIDS:
Consideration o f Bi d #M -12-10 f or a co ntract b etween t he C ity o f Cheyenne an d A ztec
Construction Co., Inc., of Cheyenne, for the Transfer Station Fire Main Loop Project (State Loan &
Investment Board).  Mr. Valdez moved to accept the bid in an amount not to exceed $113,724.00,
seconded by Ms. Ash.  Comments followed on SLIB projects and funding information to be provided
by the administration.  M r. Collins moved to postpone to Dec. 14, 2009, seconded by Mr. Brown.
Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, advised the potential postponement should not affect
project timing.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R- 4-10 for the surplus sale of one Deery Mastic Mixer to include eight
pallets o f hot app lied mastic pat ching material ut ilized by t he Public Works Department t o Vance
Brothers, Inc. of Aurora, CO.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) to reject the sole bid received carried.
ANNOUNCEMENTS/ REP ORTS /MOTIONS
[CA] Authorizing the City of Cheyenne, Golf Division, to purchase from C&M Golf and Grounds
Equipment of Denver, CO, one Front Deck Mower to replace mower currently used at Prairie View
Golf Course – referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of the Reappointment of John Goodier and Jerry Crader to the Art
in Public Places Committee; Randy Byers and Robert Clary to the Building Code Board of Appeals;
Mark A rcher, M arvin G ertsch a nd N oel G riffith J r. t o t he Contractor L icensing B oard; R onald
Duckworth to the Historic Preservation Board; and Stephen Ganison, Lily Clabots, and Carol Slane to
the Housing & Community Development Advisory Council, to be confirmed Dec. 14, 2009.
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Steve Rodriguez to the Art in Public Places
Committee; Michael Peel to the Building Code Board of Appeals; Kevin Paintner to the Cheyenne
Regional Airport Board; Lisa O’Sullivan, Kelly Weidlich, and James Rose to the Historic Preservation
Board; Jason Mitchell, Norman Jepson, and Khale Lenhart to the Housing & Community Development
Advisory Council; and Janet Tilton and Jeff Rayment to the Board of Adjustment, to be confirmed Dec.
14, 2009.
 
Under other City business and upon inquiry, Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, provided information
on the status of mortgage backed securities which are part of the City’s investment portfolio.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 8:13 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 3, 2009