MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2009-12-14 | CLIP_ID: 127 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 127

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
December 14, 2009
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS:
Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr.
Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items l isted with the desig nation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.) Mayor Kaysen explained a point of information pertaining to Agenda Item
#17(g), stating the item should have been introduced as a resolution instead of a contract and that it
would be referred to Finance Committee as a resolution instead of a contract.  Mr. Collins moved to
approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members
of the governing body.
[CA] MINUTES FROM REGULAR MEETING OF THE GOVERNING BODY ON NOVEMBER
23, 2009.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] MINUTES FROM VOUCHERS MEETING OF THE GOVERNING BODY ON DECEMBER
7, 2009.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Mr.
Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC
Services and vac ated Council Chambers.  Mr. Spiker moved to divide the question to allow for  a
separate vote on the voucher payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Mr. Spiker
moved to approve payment of the voucher payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, seconded by Mr.
Collins.  Mo tion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” – a ll m embers of  the  governing bo dy pr esent i n Co uncil
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, M r. Brown returned to Council Chambers.  Upon
inquiry reg arding a vouche r pay able to CivicPlus ( $850), City  Clerk Carol I ntlekofer explained
payment is for a one time setup fee for social networking sites Facebook and Twitter in conjunction
with the city’s website to disseminate information to the public. Motion to approve remaining vouchers
as presented carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
“AN O RDINANCE RE PEALING SE CTION 9 .08.030, G AMBLING-PROHIBITED-
EXCEPTIONS, AND SECT ION 9.08.040, VI OLATIONS BY  OWNER OR OCC UPANT OF
PREMISES WHERE GAMBLING CONDUCTED, OF TITLE 9, PUBLIC PEACE AND WELFARE,
CHAPTER 9.08, OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND DECENCY, OF THE CHEYENNE
CITY CODE.”  Bryan Grzegorczyk, speaking on behalf of the Laramie County Liquor Association,
stated that idea lly Association m embers would like to have state statutes pe rtaining to ga mbling
adopted without local ordinance provisions, but that the group is in favor of working with the governing
body on proposed ordinance changes.  Also providing comments on the proposed gambling ordinance
were:  Mike Ra ndelman, M ike L anghoff ( co-owner o f T wo B ar B owl), M atthew H avens, M ary
Shappell, Dan Shappell, Kenneth Atell and Donn Edmunds.  Topics presented and discussed included:
Repealing current city code and adopting state law; suggestion of postponement of the ordinance to
provide for input from poker players within the community; support of tournament-style poker games
and non-profit fund raising opportunities; opposition to minimum non-refundable $25.00 permit fee;
concerns with distribution of fees and lack of refunding a permit fee if a game is cancelled; who would
be authorized to examine or review the books and records involving an event for which a permit has
been obtained; permit application process and burden to applicants; advertising of games; poker as a
game of skill; on-line betting and football/sports-type pools; providing flexibility of gaming rules, and
support for changing current city code.  Upon inquiry during audience discussion, Dan White, City
Attorney, stated that most of the time a police officer would be the individual designated to review the
books and records involved with a poker event; advised of requirements under state law that must be
met to constitute a bona fide social relationship, and discussed distribution of gaming proceeds relative
to w hat c ould c onstitute p rofessional g ambling, a dvertising r estrictions, a nd in tent o f th e r evised
ordinance to provide a permitting process for certain types of tournament-style poker events.  Reporting
for Public Services Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by
Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute ordinance dated 12-9-09 which includes an
amendment recommended at the Public Services Committee meeting to change the word “present” to
“participating” in  Se ction 2 . o f th e o rdinance, Se ction 9 .08.030 B ., s econded b y M r. Pi erson.
Discussion followed on who would be required to apply for a permit (i.e. organizer of the event)
pursuant to wording that was changed in the substitute ordinance, and an affidavit requirement by the
property owner/proprietor of the fa cility where tournament-style poker events would be  held.  Mr.
Collins moved to amend the substitute with a revised substitute ordinance, seconded by Mr. Pierson.
Mr. Randelman, Mr. Langhoff, Mr. Shappell and Ms. Shappell questioned the advocacy of the city’s
involvement in gambling;  suggested changing the word “poker” to “gambling”, and discussed allowing
someone other than the applicant of the permit to be present at the games in case the applicant is unable
to be present, and the permit fee vs. participant buy-in amount.  Discussion followed on the purpose
of the orig inal ordinance, which was to repea l current city code a nd adopt state statute pr ovisions
involving gambling, and “compromising” to legally allow for tournament-style poker events as outlined
in the revised substitute.  Motion to amend the substitute with a revised substitute ordinanc e carried.
Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Brown and Ms. Case
voting “no”. Mr.  Collins moved to amend Section 2. of the ordinance, Section 9.08.030 D. from $25.00
to $5.00 as the minimum amount for the non-re fundable permit fee  or the a mount equal to the
participant’s buy-in, whichever is greater, seconded by Mr.  Spiker. Comments followed concerning
the assessment of a permit fee.  Upon inquiry, Mr. White explained the intent of a permit fee is t o
recoup the city’s cost involving permit processing and issuance; clarified that all funds of the game
must be distributed to game participants, and expressed his belief that the city would not be considered
as participating or endorsing gambling relative to liability concerns.  During discussion, Mr. Pierson
raised a point of order  with Mayor Kaysen concurring that comments should per tain to the cur rent
motion to amend involving the permit fee.  Further discussion followed on regulating poker events
affiliated with a permit vs. those poker events not requiring a permit.  Motion to amend failed (due to
a tie vote) .  Voting “ yes” – Ms. B royles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pi erson, Mr. Spiker  and Mayor Kaysen.
Voting “no” – M s. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Case, Dr. Rinne, and Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to
amend to rem ove sub-section D. in its  entirety.  Motion died due to lack of a  second.  D iscussion
continued on the proposed permit and fee.  Upon inquiry, City Clerk Carol Intlekofer advised upon her
brief review involving staff time and supply cost to process and issue a permit, she estimated the cost
would be approximately $30.  Ms. Ash moved to amend sub-section D. to state the amount of the non-
refundable permit fee shall be equal to the buy-in of the poker event if the buy-in is $25 or greater, and
if the buy-in is less than $25 then no permit would be required, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Langhoff,
Mr. Randelman, Mr . Shappell, Mr. Have ns, and Mr. Grz egorczyk commented on the pr oposed
amendment.  Topic s included wh ether other a reas of the ordina nce w ould be af fected by  the
amendment; support for the amendment; suggestion of postponing the ordinance for further review and
input; permitting vs. not permitting games under the buy-in amount, and permit application time frame
relative to each poker event.  Mr. Collins suggested a friendly amendment to the motion concerning
inclusion of affiliated wording in sub-section  B. (3) as well as within any other appropriate areas of
the ordinance.  Following a 5 minute recess to review ordinance areas that might involve additional
changes due to the proposed amendment, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 7:35 p.m.  J ohn
Knepper, Assistant City Attorney, stated there would be three places in the ordinance that would need
to be changed to effectuate the proposed amendment: Sub-section B.(3), and sub-sections C. and D.
Ms. Ash, with concurrence by Mr. Valdez as second to the motion, agreed to include changes to the
areas outlined by Mr. Knepper in her previous motion to amend.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Knepper clarified
the proposed or dinance does not aff ect a ny underlying requirements; that the ac tivity must be a
tournament-style poker game with participants being  at least 21 y ears of age.  Motion to amend as
revised carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Case
voting “no”.  Comments followed regarding lack of input on the proposed ordina nce provisions by
interested members of the community, and incidental affiliated monetary benefits, excluding gaming
proceeds, that may be received by certain businesses where poker events may be held.  Mo tion to
amend by substitute as amended by revised substitute ordinance, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes”
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Case voting “no”.  Discussion on the
main motion as amended followed and included comments regarding the minimum 21 years of age
requirement for poker event participants.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by striking sub-section B. (1)
in its entirety, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  (Clerk’s note - sub-section wording is as follows: “ ... The poker
event is a tournament-style poker game, in which all participants are at least 21 years of age, pay a fee
for participation, and all betting is conducted with chips allocated equally among all participants; ...”.)
Mr. Langhoff, Mr. Shappell and Mr. Havens spoke in favor of adopting state law vs. the ordinance, and
made comments either for or against the proposed amendment.  Mr. Brown withdrew his motion with
concurrence by Dr. Rinne as second to the motion. Mr. Valdez moved to postpone for 90 days (to
approximately March 8, 2010), seconded by Ms. Case.  Pacomio Sandoval commented on community
gambling and spoke in support of socialized gambling only.  Tom Sanders, Mr. Shappell, Julie Russell,
Mr. Grzeg orczyk and Ms. Shappell spoke in opposition t o postponement g enerally.  Additional
comments included support for repealing current city code and adopting state statute provisions, and
suggestion that a committee be formed to work on a draft for a future ordinance.  Upon inquiry, Mayor
Kaysen stated if the ordinance as amended is not approved, provisions of existing city code would be
enforced, a nd Mr. White reviewe d pos tponing the proposed or dinance vs. repe aling the exist ing
ordinance regulating gambling.  It was clarified that the proposed ordinance only regulates tournament-
style poker games and that all g ambling activities and eve nts must comply  with state statute.  Mr.
Valdez withdrew his motion to postpone with Ms. Case stating she was not in agreement and would
not withdraw her second to the motion.  Mr. Collins called for the previous question (to limit debate),
seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Intlekofer explained her understanding of the process
involving the call for the previous question, and stated the motion was non-debatable.  Motion (to limit
debate) carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Motion to postpone for 90 days
failed.  Voting “no”  – all members of the governing body.  Ms. Ash moved to amend sub-section B.
(1) by striking participants must be at least “ ... 21 years of age ...” and replacing with “ ... 18 years of
age ...”, se conded by Mr. Collins. Dis cussion followed o n the par ticipant ag e limit and included
comments of concern regarding correlation of youth drinking and gambling.  Mr. Brown called for the
previous question (to limit debate), seconded by Ms Ash.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Ms. Ash, Mr.
Brown, Mr. Collins, Mr. Valdez and May or Kaysen.  Voting  “no” – Ms. B royles, Ms. Case, Mr.
Pierson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Spiker.  Comments followed on the administrative guidelines affiliated with
poker event permit activities, and the proposed amendment to reduce the age of event participants from
21 to 18 years of age.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins, Dr.
Rinne, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” – Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Pierson a nd Mr.
Spiker.  Upon inquiry, Mr. White advised the administrative guidelines are subject to change and are
not a par t of the ac tual ordinance.  Comments followed on the g overning body’s ability to enac t
regulations more restrictive than state statute.  Mr. Pierson moved to amend Section 3. of the revised
and amended substitute ordinance by striking “but not sooner than F ebruary 1, 2010", e nabling the
ordinance to bec ome ef fective up on approval and publication, sec onded by  Ms. Broy les.  Mr.
Randelman, Mr. Atell, Mr. Langhoff, Mr. Edmunds and Ms. Shappell provided comments.  Topics
presented and discussed included: Opposition to the ordinance, possible future discussions which may
involve ordinanc e amendments, and ty pes of g ambling le gally allowed pe r state statute a nd the
ordinance.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Knepper clarified under the ordinance if poker is played in a public place
it has to be tournament-style poker.  Upon request to clarify amendments made to the ordinance during
the meeting, City Clerk I ntlekofer reviewed the mot ions that had been made  and appr oved during
discussion. Further  comments wer e made  reg arding controls and g uidelines for a llowing soc ial
gambling in the community, and when the ordinance would become effective.  Motion to amend to
provide for the effectiveness of the ordinance upon approval and publication carried.  Voting “yes” –
all members of the governing body.  Discussion continued on the proposed ordinance, current city code,
and adoption of state law provisions instead of the revised substitute ordinance as amended.  Ms. Ash
moved to amend sub-section C. by “ ... authorizing the mayor to appoint agents, including its police
officers, to seek any additional information ...”, se conded by Mr. Collins. M otion to amend carried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Case voting “no”.  Motion
carried to approve the revised substitute as amended.  Voting “yes” – all members of the g overning
body with the exception of Ms. Case voting  “no”.  Comments followed r egarding supporting a n
enforceable o rdinance, a thletic s ports p ools, a nd t ournament-style p oker g ames. M ain m otion to
approve as amended by revised substitute ordinance as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Brown and Ms. Case voting “no”. (#3877)
Following a ten minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 9:07 p.m.
“AN O RDINANCE AMEND ING T ITLE 17, Z ONING, CHAPTER 17.08, Z ONING
DISTRICTS ES TABLISHED AND SECTI ON 17.08.040 CHEYEN NE C ITY M AP OF TH E
CHEYENNE CITY CODE, BY CHANGING THE ZONING CLASSIFICATION FROM LI LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT TO CB COMMUNI TY BUSINESS DISTRICT FOR A PORTI ON OF
LOTS 6-17, AND V ACATED 16'  AL LEY, B LOCK 405, ORI GINAL CI TY, CHEYENN E,
WYOMING (L OCATED SOUTH O F AN D ADJACENT TO W. L INCOLNWAY, EAST OF
STINSON AVENUE).” Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#3878)
“AN O RDINANCE AMEND ING A PORTI ON OF  THE CI TY OF  CHEYE NNE’S
SANITATION FEE SCHEDULE PERTAINING TO THE RECYCLE RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION
MONTHLY FEE, AS APPROVED BY ORDINANCE NO. 3851 ON JUNE 8, 2009.”  Reporting for
Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Discussion followed on previous amendments and costs associated with implementing the recycling
program.  Mr. Collins moved to amend the fee for 60 gal. containers from $2.00 to $3.00, seconded by
Dr. Rinne. Upon inquiry, Public Works Director Jim Elias clarified staff’s initial fee proposal for 60
gal. containers was $5.00 and that a $3.00 fee was acceptable as a current option as data is still being
compiled as to operational costs for the program.  Upon inquiry pursuant to a point of clarification
being raised, it was advised the fee schedule would also be amended in conjunction with the ordinance.
Comments followed on an ame ndment approved at the last City  Council meeting vs. the  proposed
amendment.  Mr. E lias noted the proposed amendme nt would also aff ect Note 8 included in the
ordinance relative to t he 60 gallon trash/60 gallon recycle fee (ie: $15 to $16).  M r. Collins, with
concurrence by Dr. Rinne as se cond to the motion, revised his pre vious amendment to include the
change in fee also be reflected in Note 8 for 60 gal trash/60 gal recycle from $15 to $16.  Comments
followed regarding discussion held at the Finance Committee meeting regarding costs and proposed
fees.  Mayor Kaysen advised studies are currently being conducted to collect data to present a true cost
of services that will be reviewed in conjunction with the next regularly scheduled rate review ordinance
which is scheduled for an effective date of July 1, 2010.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all
members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case and Mr. Pierson voting
“no”. Comments followed in support of sustaining the residential recycling program and recouping
costs already invested. Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body with the exception of Ms. Case voting “no.” (#3879)
[CA] “A RESOLUTION CERTIFYING THAT THE GOV ERNING BODY OF THE CI TY OF
CHEYENNE IS I N AGREEMENT WI TH THE L ARAMIE COUNTY B OARD OF
COMMISSIONERS AS TO THE F EBRUARY 2010 APPL ICATION FOR THE COUNTYWI DE
CONSENSUS BLOCK GRANT (2009-2010 FISCAL BIENNIUM) TO THE STATE LOAN AND
INVESTMENT BOARD” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] “A RESOL UTION SUPPORTI NG THE CI TY OF  CHEYENNE’ S APP LICATION F OR
CONGESTION MITIGATION/AIR QUALITY (CMAQ) FUNDS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF
A M ODERN RO UNDABOUT A T T HE INTERSECTION OF PERSH ING B LVD./CONVERSE
AVE./19TH ST. (2007-2010 1% SALES TAX)” -- r eferred to Financ e Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Brown).
[CA] “A RESOLUTION  REQUESTI NG RELINQUISHMENT OF A P ORTION OF A STATE
HIGHWAY R IGHT-OF-WAY LO CATED WITHIN T HE C ITY O F C HEYENNE, LA RAMIE
COUNTY, WYOMING (LOCATED IN THE VICINITY OF NATIONWAY BETWEEN DUNN AND
LOGAN AVENUES)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] “A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR AND THE CITY CLERK TO SIGN A
FINAL PL AT F OR CATHEDRAL COMMONS, 2ND F ILING, A REPL AT OF  BL OCK ONE,
CATHEDRAL CO MMONS, CH EYENNE, WY OMING (LOCATED AT  TH E  N ORTHEAST
CORNER OF THE INTERSECTION OF YELLOWSTONE ROAD AND GARDENIA DRIVE)” --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] “A RESOLUTION DESIGNATING LOCAL BANKS AS DEPOSITORIES FOR MUNICIPAL
FUNDS” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez.).
PRELIMINARY PLATS/PRELIMINARY ZONE CHANGE:
[CA] Preliminary Plat f or Block 140, Orig inal City, 2   Filing , a re plat of L ots 1-8, Bloc k 140,nd
Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of E. 24th Street
and Warren Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Preliminary Zone Change from MR-1 Medium Density Residential-Established District to PUD
Planned Unit Development District for Lot 1, Original City Block 140, 2  Filing , Cheyenne, Wyomingnd
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of E. 24th Street and Warren Avenue) -- referred
to Public Services Committee.
LEASES/CONTRACTS/LEGAL:
[CA] Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives,
and Wyoming Department of Family Services, for grant funding for Intensive Support Mentoring for
youth in the Municipal Court System. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ($69,275.00 revenue to
City).  (#5491) Under other business later in the meeting, Ms. Ash distributed additional information
(on file with office of City Clerk) regarding the program.
[CA] Agreement of Ac ceptance between the City of Chey enne and the Wy oming Department of
Transportation for 0.16 acres of highway right-of-way adjacent to Nationway between Dunn Avenue
and Logan Avenue for the purpose of building Greenway Pathways (Greenway construction funded
by 2007 Norris TEAL Grant) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Lease Agreement between Francis E. Warren Post No. 1881, Veterans of Foreign Wars and the
City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, for the city’s use of Pride Park Softball Complex
-- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement with Laramie County to provide radio communications equipment to the Cit y of
Cheyenne, Public Works Depa rtment, purcha sed with funds fr om U.S. Depar tment of Ho meland
Security and administered by Wyoming Department of Homeland Security  (Partial 2007-2010 1%
Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Department of Transportation for a
Transportation Enhancement Activities - Local (TEAL) Grant for continuation of the Greenway System
(Walterscheid Pedestrian Underpass Project)  (1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Ayres Associates f or
design and construction engineering services for the E. Pershing Blvd. Reconstruction Project (Phase
IV) (2003-2006 & 2007 - 2010 1% Sales Tax, BOPU) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Authorization for the May or and City Clerk to execute a State Historic Pre servation Office
Certified Local Government Grant Award for a Class II Cultural Resource Survey of the Belvoir Ranch
Property -- referred to Finance Committee.  (Clerk’s note: Pursuant to information previously provided
by Mayor Kaysen during Consent Agenda action; this item is affiliated with a Resolution and would
be reflected as a Resolution on the next Finance Committee meeting agenda.)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Stride Learning Center for the lease of a transit
program bus to be used by Stride’s clients -- referred to Finance Committee.
CHANGE ORDERS/CONTRACT MODIFICATIONS:
[CA] Contract M odification N o. 2  t o C ontract N o. 5 316 b etween t he C ity of  Cheyenne a nd J2
Contracting for additional materials and labor for construction of David R. Romero South Cheyenne
Community Park (State Loan & Investment Board).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $142,841.67).  (#5316)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Bid No. M-5-09 between the City of Cheyenne and RECCO,
Inc. d/b/a Five-R-Co. for additional work and amenities for the Cheyenne Youth Activity and
Community Center (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried.  (amount not to
exceed $63,357.00).  (#5321)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5467 between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne
Light, F uel &  Power Com pany for a  reduc tion in cost of ext ension of ele ctric se rvice to the
Construction & Demolition Recycle Building  (State Loan & Investment Board) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 4769 between the City of Cheyenne and Attention Homes,
Inc. f or r ental r enewal o f r eal p roperty f or a n a dditional 2 4 mo nth te rm - - r eferred to  F inance
Committee.
CONSIDERATION OF BIDS:
Consideration of Bid #M-12-10 for  a contr act be tween the  City  of Chey enne a nd Aztec
Construction Co., Inc., of Cheyenne, for the Transfer Station Fire Main Loop Project (State Loan &
Investment Board) (postponed from 11-23-09).  Mr. Valdez moved to accept the bid in an amount not
to exceed $113,724.00, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Valdez moved to postpone to Dec. 28, 2009,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  It was advised the postponement is to allow time to receive an administrative
report on SLIB projects and funding information.  Mo tion to postpone carried.  Vo ting “yes” – a ll
members of the governing body. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-3-10 for one new 2011 cab & chassis truck with dump body, spreader,
snow plow and tarpaulin from Peterbilt of Wyoming for the Street and Alley Department (2003-2006
& 2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-5-10 for two 2010 4x4 Utility Vehicles from Greiner Ford, Casper,
WY for the Public Wo rks Dept and Construc tion Engineering Dept. (2007- 2010 1% Sales Ta x) --
referred to Finance Committee.
APPO INTM EN TS:
Reappointment of John Goodier and Jerry Crader to the Art in Public Places Committee; Randy
Byers and Robert Clary to the Building  Code Board of Appeals; Mark Archer, Marvin Gertsch and
Noel Griffith Jr. to the Contractor Licensing Board; Ronald Duckworth to the Historic Preservation
Board; and Stephen Ganison, Lily Clabots, and Carol Slane to the Housing & Community Development
Advisory Council.  Mr. Collins moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote
(Mayoral appointments).
Appointment of Steve Rodriguez to the Art in Public Places Committee; Michael Peel to the
Building Cod e B oard of  Ap peals; Ke vin Pa intner t o th e Che yenne Re gional A irport B oard; Lisa
O’Sullivan, Ke lly Wei dlich, a nd Jame s Ro se to t he Hi storic Preservation B oard; Jas on Mit chell,
Norman Jepson, and Khale Lenhart to the Housing & Community Development Advisory Council; and
Janet Tilton and Jeff Rayment to the Board of Adjustment.  Mr. Collins moved to approve, seconded
by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception
of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
AN NOU NC EMENT S/RE PORT S/MOT IONS
[CA] Authorizing the City of Cheyenne, Golf Division, to purchase from C&M Golf and Grounds
Equipment of Denver, CO, one Front Deck Mower to replace mower currently used at Prairie View
Golf Course.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $37,500.00).
 Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held December 28, 2009 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council
Chambers for a transfer of ownership for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City
Clerk’s Office for Wei Sheng Qiu d/b/a Golden House Chinese Restaurant, 1651 Carey Ave., Ste. 8,
Cheyenne, WY (License currently held by Yu Zheng d/b/a Golden House Restaurant, 1651 Carey Ave.,
Ste. 8, Cheyenne, WY).
Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held December 28, 2009 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council
Chambers to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402
exists for the parcels commonly known as Southwest Properties, situated in a portion of Sections 12
and 13, T. 13N., R. 67W., of the 6  P.M. Laramie County, WY. (Generally located east of Southwestth
Drive, South of I nterstate 80, West of B NSF Railroad, a nd North of Woodenshoe Road, inc luding
Cheyenne Animal Shelter and associated rights-of-way).
Announcement of Appointment of Philip Griggs to the Public Transit Advisory Board and Kurt
Zunker to the Fire Civil Service Commission, to be confirmed December 28, 2009.
Under other b usiness: Ms. Ash provided sug gestions for potential budg et cost re duction
measures due to current budgetary revenue concerns, and Mayor Kaysen extended holiday greetings
to council members, employees and community residents.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 9:37 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 28, 2009