MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-02-08 | CLIP_ID: 140 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 140

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
February 8, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  Pr esent w ere: M AYOR - Richard L . K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS: Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Spiker.
Absent: Mr. Collins and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Pierson and Ms. Broyles, agenda item #16(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr.
Brown m oved to a pprove r emaining C onsent A genda i tems, s econded b y Mr. S piker. M otion
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 25, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body on February 1, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Spiker moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Upon inquiry, City Treasurer Barb Dorr reviewed information available for the following vouchers
payable to: Brown’s Shoe Company ($27.50), copying and administrative fees pursuant to Police
Dept. investigation records request; Reiman Corp. ($210,257.00), Carey/Pioneer rehab. construction
project; Top Shelf Enterprises LLC, ($2,800.00), removal and discarding of structural mold/moisture
damage; Lock Shop of Cheyenne Inc. ($510.00), after hours services for Police Dept.; W. G. Dale
Electric Co. ($140.00), telephone system changes (Transit office); Ellenbecker Oil Inc. ($24,311.61),
diesel fuel purchases (Fleet Maint., Street & Alley and Sanitation); VISA charge to Audubohn Intl.
($200.00), membership dues (Golf Director). Also p roviding additional information pursuant to
vouchers involved in discussion were: Doug Vetter, City Engineer; Captain Jeff Schulz, I nterim
Police Chief; Jim Elias, Public Works Director, and Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
“Ordinance amending Section 6.08.020 (B), Keeping or slaughtering of certain animals -
Restrictions within City, of Chapter 6.08, Animal care and control regulations generally, of Title 6,
Animals, an d am ending Section 6. 20.010, Des ignation o f A nimal Sh elter, o f Ch apter 6. 20,
Impoundment, of Title 6, Animals, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.”  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr.
Rinne. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#3882)
“Ordinance a mending T itle 1 7, Z oning, C hapter 1 7.08, Z oning d istricts e stablished a nd
Section 1 7.08.040 C heyenne C ity m ap o f t he C heyenne City C ode, by  c hanging t he z oning
classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential-established district to MUB Mixed Use with
Business emphasis district for Lot 3 and the east 23-feet of Lot 4, Block 3, Alta-Vista Addition,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to E. 17  Street, west of Converse Avenue).”th
Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Mo tion carried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#3883)
“Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated in
Sections 12 and 13, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6  Principal Meridian, Laramieth
County, Wyoming (located east of Southwest Drive, south of Interstate 80, west of BNSF Railroad,
and north of Woodenshoe Road)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash). 
“Ordinance creating Chapter 8.68, Vacant and Abandoned Residential Structures, of Title
8, Hea lth an d Safety, o f t he C ode of the City o f Cheyenne, W yoming” --  referred t o F inance
Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).  
“Resolution determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402
exist for the property described as a parcel of land being situated in the SW¼ NW ¼ of  Section 21,
T. 14N.,  R. 66W., of the 6  P.M., Laramie County, WY (located south of Plain View Road, westth
of Point Bluff, and north of Apache Street).”  Ms. Ash moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Rinne.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#5184)
[CA] “Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in agreement with
the Laramie County Board of Commissioners as to the current countywide Consensus Block Grant
application to the State Loan and Investment Board” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -
Ms. Broyles).
[CA] “Resolution authorizing the transfer of funds in the approximate amount of $145,000 from
the C ity’s s elf-funded employee health b enefit plan t o the general fund” --  referred t o F inance
Committee (sponsors - Mayor Kaysen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Brown and Mr. Pierson).
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives and Laramie County
Community Partnership, Inc. to provide a range of academic and other enrichment activities to at
risk school age youth at  Johnson Jr. High.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5510)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and TriHydro Corp. for
environmental m onitoring a t H appy J ack L andfill ( Solid Wa ste F und).  M otion ( per C onsent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $209,220.00/three year term).  (#5511)
[CA] Cooperative A greement b etween th e C ity of  C heyenne a nd W yoming D epartment of
Transportation for Cheyenne Marginal-Vandehei Interchange (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).   Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5512)
[CA] Notice and Consent to Assignment of the Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of
Cheyenne and Cornerstone Programs Corporation dba Jeffrey C. Wardle Academy to Southeastern
Wyoming Juvenile Services, LLC -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Community Based Family Support and Preservation Grant Contract between the Wyoming
Department of  F amily S ervices, P rotective S ervices D ivision, a nd C ity of C heyenne, Y outh
Alternatives, to provide a family counselor to assist with transitional services -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Wyoming C hildren’s T rust F und G rant C ontract b etween th e W yoming D epartment of
Family S ervices, P rotective S ervices D ivision, a nd C ity of C heyenne, S pecial F riends -  Y outh
Alternatives, for the Special Friends Outreach Program -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Energy P erformance C ontract be tween the C ity o f C heyenne a nd L ong B uilding
Technologies, Inc. to provide equipment and services designed to save energy at 52 City o wned
facilities to include a  lighting retrofit, occupancy sensor installation, modular boiler in Fire Station
#1, an energy conservation education program and measurement and verification of energy savings
-- referred to Finance Committee.
 [CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of State Parks &
Cultural Resources for a Land and Water Conservation Fund Grant for a basketball court in Martin
Luther King Park -- referred to Finance Committee.
Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5428 between the City of Cheyenne and Mill
Brothers L andscape a nd N ursery, I nc., Ft . C ollins, CO, for additional i rrigation a nd g round
preparation for Saddle Ridge Neighborhood Park (School Dist. Rec. Mill).  Reporting for Finance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $9,825.88, seconded by Mr.
Spiker.  Mr Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Upon inquiry, Rick
Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, clarified an error in the wording contained in Section 1 of the
document was noticed following the Finance Committee meeting, and that the substitute corrects
the language.  H e indicated completion of the project will include sodding and seeding of some
areas.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main
motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing b ody
present.  (#5428)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-11-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman
Corp., for the East Cheyenne Greenway, Phase IIIb Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $358,328.55).  (#5513)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-8-10 for the Surplus Sale of “Two 1993 Toro Greens Aerators”
from the City of Cheyenne Golf Department -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-13-10 for a Contract between S&S Builders, of Cheyenne, WY,
and the City of Cheyenne for the Randall Bridge Enhancements Project  (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -
referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of Shane Moore, Gale Shenefelt, Charles Livermont, Daryl Hensel, Regina
Meena and Clayton Gray, to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities. Ms. Broyles moved
to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 22, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Co uncil Chambers for r enewal o f ex isting City L iquor L icenses (r etail, rest aurant, limited
retail, r esort, b ar a nd g rill l icenses, a nd m icrobrewery and w inery p ermits) f iled w ith th e C ity
Clerk’s Office.
Announcement was made that due to the President’s Day Holiday, on Monday, February 15,
2010, Finance Committee will meet at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet at 12:15
p.m. on Tuesday, February 16, 2010, in Council Meeting Room 122; Vouchers meeting will be held
in Council Chambers at Noon.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting w as
officially adjourned at 6:23 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 February 12, 2010