MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-02-22 | CLIP_ID: 142 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 142

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
February 22, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil Chambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS: Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr.
Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by
Ms. Ash and Mr. Collins, agenda item #13 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request
by Ms. Ash, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Rinne and Ms. Broyles, agenda item #16(c)
was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Brown moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda
items, seconded by Mr. Spiker. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 8, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body on February 16, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Spiker moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Brown.
Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to AVI, City Engineer Doug Vetter briefly reviewed the
status of the Henderson Basin project, stating there is some remaining work for remapping of the
flood plain prior to the project being completed.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of
the governing body.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for the purpose of receiving comments and input for
renewal of  e xisting City Liquor Licenses ( retail, re staurant, lim ited r etail, resort, b ar a nd g rill
licenses, and microbrewery and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  City Clerk Carol
Intlekofer noted for the record that one restaurant liquor licensee (Lucky 7) did not file for renewal,
and reviewed the parked license status for applicants C.B. & Potts, Hitching Post and On the Border.
She advised On the Border had submitted a written request for an additional one year extension, as
authorized by Wyo. Statute, to become operational, and stated that the Mayflower was temporarily
closed for  remode ling pur poses.  Chris Cantwell , Director of Ope rations for O n The B order
restaurant pro ject, reviewed the current status the projec t and explained, if the re quest for the
additional year is approved, it is anticipated building construction will be completed in Oct. 2010.
Upon inquiry, Captain J eff Schulz, I nterim Police Chief, re viewed underage compliance checks
recently conducted, responded to inquiry concerning non-compliance of TIPS training records, and
indicated he would provide underage compliance results pursuant to checks conducted last fall.
There being no further comments or input and purpose of the public hearing having been met,
Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the applications to Finance Committee.
“Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated in
Sections 12 and 13, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6  Principal Meridian, Laramieth
County, Wyoming (located east of Southwest Drive, south of Interstate 80, west of BNSF Railroad,
and north of Woodenshoe  Drive) .” Donn Edmunds questioned w hether any  studies had bee n
conducted regarding accessibility to the site, expressing concerns with traffic delays and the railroad
crossing in the area.  Gay Woodhouse, Woodhouse Roden LLC law firm, attorney representing area
home owners, requested a postponement to fur ther review impact issues involving the proposed
annexation and a Southwest Drive  Transpor tation Draina ge and U tility repor t that had bee n
prepared. She cited previous postponements requested by and approved for the developer for the
project, submitted a handout (on file with office of City Clerk) noting the prior postponement dates,
and requested equal consideration pursua nt to her client’s r equest for postponement.  Kathlee n
Sheehan, property owner near the proposed annexation area, requested a six month postponement
to allow time to re-e valuate he r prope rty situation and review  the re port.  Ken Clar k,
applicant/developer, pro vided in formation o n th e dr ainage report, n oting it w as ma iled to  Ms.
Sheehan in Aug. 2009, with Ms. Sheehan responding she did not receive the report.  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.
Ms. Ash moved to postpone for one month (to March 22, 2010), seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon
inquiry, City Clerk Carol Intlekofer advised a one month postponement would be to March 22 , atnd
which time the item would be referred back to Public Services Committee for review.  Discussion
followed and included the following topics: Annexation request by the property owner, state statute
annexation criteria and g overning body’s role in dete rmining whether criteria is met, and wha t
would be accomplished within a 30 day postponement relative to the annexation action vs. other
issues involving site plan/platting discussions.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Woodhouse reiterated the request
for postponement is to provide conce rned area property owners the same c ourtesy afforded Mr.
Clark (i.e. pr evious postponement re quests approved) to allow additio nal time to further r eview
documents.  Ms. Case moved to amend the motion to postpone from one month to three  months,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mike Basom, Dray, Thomson, Dyekman law firm, attorney representing
Mr. Clark, spoke in opposition to the motion to postpone and stated the issues of concern that have
been raised regarding access, transportation, utility, and drainage should be discussed during the
platting process.  Speaking in favor of postponement and against the annexation generally were Ms.
Sheehan and Doris Garcia, citing personal impact to property owners in the area if the annexation
and proposed development of the area as proceeds and expressing concerns with health, safety and
welfare of residents, and future residents, in the area.  Comments followed on the time frame (one
month increments) a nd purpose of past postponement reque sts made by  and appr oved for  the
developer, and included statements in support of the motion to postponement by Ms. Sheehan and
Ms. Woodhouse.  Motion to postpone for thre e months failed. Voting “yes” – Ms. Case and Mr.
Valdez.  Voting “no” – Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr.
Spiker and May or Kaysen. Discussion con tinued on the f ormer Swan Ranch a nnexation action
recently approved that involved similar concerns with access and traffic, and information obtained
from Mr. Clark on his hesitancy to move forward with the expense of having an engineering report
prepared to address issues of concern involving access, traffic, and drainage topics without knowing
whether the annexation request will be approved.  Motion to postpone for one month (to March 22,
2010) carried.  V oting “yes” – Ms. B royles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Dr . Rinne, Mr. Va ldez and
Mayor Kaysen. Voting “no” – Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Mr. Pierson and Mr. Spiker.
“Ordinance creating Chapter 8.68, Vacant and Abandoned Residential Structures, of Title
8, Health and Safety , of the Code of  the City  of Cheyenne, Wyoming.” Ian Cattalier, State of
Wyoming, Construction Mana gement, question ed the effect the ordinanc e may have on va cant
properties the State rec ently purcha sed (ne ar Saf eway store off  Pioneer Ave .); the aba ndoned
property definition, and the time fr ame for payment according to the fee structure for abandoned
properties.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, reviewed the basic aspects and provisions of
the ordinance in response to Mr. Cattalier’s inquiry.  Frank Cole, developer, spoke in opposition to
ordinance provisions involving specific requirements on boarding up the structure s, and stated a
better definition of “utilities” vs. provided “services” should be provided.  Steven Miller spoke in
favor of the ordinance and in support of holding property owners accountable, cleaning up blighted
and a bandoned r esidential pr operties, a nd e ffect on  the  ne ighborhood pr operty va lues.  Jea nie
Tucker questioned whether there was any protection for abandoned homes located in a designated
historic district and the fees to be assessed and also read a statement from Jan Nelson Schroll in
support of preserving and promoting neighborhoods and registering abandoned houses. Reporting
for Finance Committee, Mr. B rown stated the re was no re commendation on the item fr om the
committee.  Ms. Ash moved to appr ove on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Dr. Rinne
moved to amend Section 8.68.070 B.1. and B.2. to delete the language following the word “secured”
as follows: B.1. “ by the use of Phillip s head two-inch screws” and B.2. “by the use of 16 pe nny
common nails”, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members
of the governing body.  U pon inquiry regarding #6 in S ection 8.68.040, Mr. White advised this
wording was included to obtain information regarding plans or reasons why a particular structure
has bee n abandone d, and Of ficer Emmett L usher, Code Enf orcement, Ch eyenne Poli ce D ept.,
advised any information that can be utilized to quickly assist in identifying property ownership is
useful in abating properties.  Officer Lusher also advised it is important to board up properties to
protect them from crime and illegal activities, indicating every City Ward has issues with abandoned
properties.  Comments followed reg arding the diffe rence between utilities and service s.  Upon
inquiry, Mr. White advised the  International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) only applies to
dangerous or  unsafe  structure s that are  capa ble of collapse, and structur es unfit for huma n
occupancy and explained it is unlawful to sell property that is in violation of the IPMC unless the
new owner acknowledges and agrees to be res ponsible for violations.  Upon furthe r inquiry, Mr.
White advised the ordinance supplements the IPMC, provides a financial incentive to p roperty
owners to maintain their proper ties, provides funds to assist with monit oring the prope rties by
building officials and police , and plac es restrictions on the building to allow f or an inspec tion
process.  Discussion followed on the purpose of the ordinance and possible future similar ordinance
to ad dress abandoned commercial buildings.  U pon inquiry regarding the $250 fee, Mr. White
clarified once the abandoned building is registered and the fee paid, the building official would have
a list of abandoned/vacated properties for the police and building official to monitor.  Upon inquiry,
Mayor Kaysen advised the authority to monitor ordinance pr ovisions would fall un der the Chief
Building Official’s area with enforcement through Nuisance Control and/or Police Dept.  Discussion
continued on other potential changes to ordinance wording, compliance time frame and penalty
provisions.  Mr. Cole provided further comments on the difference between  utilities and services.
Upon inquiry regarding issuance of misdemeanor citations, Mr. White reviewed the role of the Chief
Building Official and police department relative to issuance of citations.  Comments followed on
uninhabitable structures, similar legislation for abandoned commercial structures, and the terms
“utility” vs. “services”.  Motion to approve as amended on second reading carried.  Voting “yes”
– all members of the governing body.
“An Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated
in the SW ¼ NW¼ of Section 21, T. 14N., R .66W., of the 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyomingth
(located south of Plain View Road, west of Point Bluff, and north of Apache Street) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in agreement with
the Laramie County Board of Commissioners as to the current countywide Consensus Block Grant
application to t he State L oan and I nvestment Boa rd.” Motion (pe r Consent Ag enda) car ried.
(#5185)
“Resolution authorizing the transfer of funds in the approximate amount of $145,000 from
the City’s self-funded employee health benefit plan to the general fund.”  Mr . Brown moved to
adopt, seconded by Mr. Spiker.   Dr. Rinne moved to amend the  6th Whereas pa ragraph and the
Now, The refore, B e It Resol ved paragraph to delete the f ollowing language at the e nd of the
sentences: “to re duce the  number of pote ntial u npaid employee f urlough day s which may  be
imposed due to current budgetary concerns and conditions,” seconded by Mr. Collins.  Comments
followed on the purpose of the proposed amendment, which is to utilize the dollars toward funding
of job s in  lie u o f a ny po tential r eduction in  e mployee fo rce measures in stead o f s pecifically
referencing unpaid employee furlough days.  Mayor Kaysen stated the monies are a one-time lump
sum amount and not an ongoing revenue source, and that the intent of the resolution is to hopefully
defer/reduce the need for furlough days.  Upon inquiry, City Treasurer Barb Dorr confirmed the
money is a one-time infusion of money.  Brief discussion followed on the purpose of the proposed
amendment, and time frame of funding transfer (current or next fiscal year).  Motion to amend
failed.  Voting “yes” – Ms. Ash and Dr. Rinne.  Voting “no” – Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case,
Mr. Collins, M r. Pierson, Mr. Spiker, Mr. V aldez and May or Kaysen.  Discussion followed on
possible unpaid employee furlough days, concern with protection of employee jobs, retaining the
funding relative to re-implementation of a possible future self-funded program as a health insurance
option, and fiscal responsibility.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” –  Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr.
Collins, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen. Voting “no” - Ms. Ash, Ms. Case
and Dr. Rinne.  (#5186)
[CA] “Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2010 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and §16-4-113” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -
Mr. Brown and Mr. Spiker).
[CA] “Resolution designating the Chey enne Animal Shelter, 800 Southwest Drive, Chey enne,
Wyoming, as an official animal shelter and animal control facility pursuant to Section 6.20.010 of
the Code of the City of Cheyenne” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
[CA] Notice and Consent to Assignment of the Juvenile Housing agreement between the City of
Cheyenne and Cornerstone Programs Corporation dba Jeffrey C. Wardle Academy to Southeastern
Wyoming Juvenile Services, LLC.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5460)
[CA] Community Based Family Support and Preservation Grant contract between the Wyoming
Department o f F amily Se rvices, Pr otective Se rvices D ivision, an d Ci ty of  Che yenne, Y outh
Alternatives, to provide a family counselor to assist with transitional services.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5514)
Wyoming Children’ s Trust Fu nd Gra nt contrac t betwee n the Wy oming De partment of
Family Services, Protective Services Division, and City of Cheyenne, Special Friends - Y outh
Alternatives, for the Special Friends Outreach Program.  Ms. Ash declared a conflict of interest
(participant o n th e Tr ust F und B oard) a nd va cated Cou ncil Ch ambers.  M r. B rown mov ed to
approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body present in City Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Ms. Ash returned
to Council Chambers.  (#5515)
[CA] Energy Perfor mance contra ct betwe en the City  of Chey enne and L ong Building
Technologies, Inc. to provide e quipment and services designed to save energy at 52 City  owned
facilities to include a  lighting retrofit, occupancy sensor installation, modular boiler in Fire Station
#1, an energy conservation education program and measurement and verification of energy savings.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5516)
 [CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of State Parks &
Cultural Resources for a Land and Water Conservation Fund Grant for a basketball court in Martin
Luther King Park.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (City’s portion- cash $9,597 and in-kind
match $9,416).  (#5517)
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, acting by and through its Board of Public
Utilities (BOPU), and Swan Ranch Development for Swan Ranch Development to construct and to
donate to BOPU a private water and sanitary sewer system that runs through the Swan Ranch Rail
Park -- referred to Finance Committee.    
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, acting by and through its
Board of Public Utilities (BOPU), and Cheyenne Frontier Days, to outline responsibilities for the
operation and maintenance of the sanitary waste station at Lake Absarraca -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of FAA Grant No. 3-56-0005-45 between the City of Cheyenne, County of
Laramie, and the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the Rehabilitation of Taxiways A3 and B2 --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Amendment No. 4 to State Lease Agreement No. 8-09466 between the City of Cheyenne and
State of Wyoming for parking spaces in the Cox Parking Facility -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-8-10 for the Surplus Sale of “Two 1993 Toro Greens Aerators”
from the City of Cheyenne Golf Department.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (Mountain Vista
Greens, Ft. Collins, CO (one aerator), revenue to City  $1,200.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-13-10 for a contract between S&S Builders, of Cheyenne, WY, and
the City of Cheyenne for the Randa ll Bridge Enhancements Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (rejected all bids).
Under other City  business:  J ohn Palmer expressed c oncerns with the g overning body’s
public participation process, commented on a recent editorial in the local newspaper written by a
member of City Council, and the city’s budget condition and costs associated with city services and
maintenance areas.  Joe E lkins, BC Cab, local business owner, expressed concerns with public
transport taxicab companies operating in violation of state law, referencing City Code provisions,
and lack of enforcement for the violations, which would provide revenue to the City to assist with
its financial situation.  Pacomio Sandoval also expressed co ncerns with the public participa tion
process at City Council meetings and with budget concerns and expenses, specifically referencing
the City ’s pas t Taco John’s Events Center  and B elvoir Ranch pur chases.  Donn Edmunds
commented on the budget situation and referenced a community in Colorado that is experiencing
the financial inability to provide support services involving urban growth (annexation) areas, and
urged the governing body to carefully consider housing development growth/annexation approval
actions in conjunction with the City’s financial ability to support affiliated services.
Mr. Collins made statements expressing his opinion regarding a recent executive session of
the governing body and allowable discussion topics.
City Attorney Dan White requested the governing body meet in executive session concerning
a pleading/filing involving litigation.  Ms. Broyles moved to meet in executive session, seconded
by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Mayor Kaysen
announced members would meet in executive session in Council Chambers, not open to the public;
requested the City Attorney, City Clerk, and other staff as requested by the City Attorney, be present
at the executive session, and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result
of the executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the
close of the executive session.  (Clerk’s Note: Executive session convened at 8:16 p.m.)
There being  no further  busine ss to come be fore the g overning body prior to executive
session, the meeting was officially adjourned at 8:34 p.m. following closure of the executive session.
 
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 March 4, 2010