MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-03-08 | CLIP_ID: 144 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 144

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
March 8, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  Pr esent w ere: M AYOR - Richard L . K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS: Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.
Absent:  M s. Case and Mr. Collins.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Spiker moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Brown. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 22, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body on March 1, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Upon inquiry, City Treasurer Barb Dorr provided information available for vouchers payable to
Willis o f W yo., I nc. ( $100.00), notary b ond p olicies ( $50/ea), an d VI SA/UMB
($1,111.31/$1,402.31), NAARSO carnival ride training expenses for building inspectors (reimbursed
by Cheyenne Frontier Days).  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body
present.
“Ordinance creating Chapter 8.68, Vacant and Abandoned Residential Structures, of Title
8, Health and Safety, o f the Code o f t he City o f Cheyenne, Wyoming.” Reporting for Finance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez. Mr.
Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  It was noted the substitute amends
Section 8.68.040 B. by changing “7 days” to “7 business days”.  Motion to amend carried. Voting
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Mr. Spiker moved to amend the substitute, as
amended, by a replacement substitute (dated by City Attorney as March 8, 2010), seconded by Mr.
Valdez.  Upon inquiry, City Attorney Dan White explained the changes contained in the substitute,
referencing Section 8.68.020, Definitions, Subsection 4. with regard to c onnection to u tilities or
services and definition of “abandoned”; Section 8.68.110 pertaining to structure registration and
property owner duty to comply with the International Property Maintenance Code, and insertion of
Section 3. providing for a sunset clause indicating the ordinance shall remain in effect from May 1,
2010 u ntil Au gust 1 , 2 011 w ith a  r eport r equirement f rom t he C hief B uilding O fficial to t he
governing body prior to August 1, 2011 to determine ordinance effectiveness.  Motion to amend the
substitute, a s a mended, by r eplacement s ubstitute c arried.  Voting “yes” –  a ll members o f t he
governing body present.  Mr. Pierson moved to amend Section 3. (sunset clause) by changing the
date of August 1, 2011 to November 1, 2011, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  He noted the proposed date
change would  provide more time for acquiring information to determine ordinance effectiveness.
Comments followed in support of the amendment.  Motion to amend Section 3. carried.  Voting
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend Section 8.68.020
by s triking Subs ection 4.  c. wh ich references t he C ity’s wat er supply s ystem.  F ollowing b rief
comments, Dr. Rinne withdrew the motion.  Upon inquiry regarding enforcement of the ordinance,
Matt Ashby, Planning Se rvices D irector, a dvised u pon a pproval of the o rdinance a  p reliminary
process will be developed regarding structure registration and enforcement procedures involving the
Chief Building Official with assistance from the Nuisance Code Enforcement Officer.  Main motion
as amended by substitute (three amendments) carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body present. (#3884)
“An Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated
in t he SW¼ NW¼ of Section 21, T. 14N., R.66W., of the 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyomingth
(located south of Plain View Road, west of Point Bluff, and north of Apache Street).  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.
Ms. Ash moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon inquiry, City Attorney Dan
White explained the substitute corrects erroneous language that indicated an official plat was on file.
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main motion
as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 1 7.08.040 C heyenne C ity m ap of the Cheyenne C ity C ode, by  c hanging t he z oning
classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential Established District to PUD Planned Unit
Development District for Lot 1, Original City Block 140, Refinement A, Cheyenne, Wy oming
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of  E. 24  Street and Warren Avenue)” -- referredth
to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
“An Ordinance amending a portion of the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation Fee Schedule to add
monthly r ecycle d umpster s ervice f ees f or a partments, m ultiplex d wellings, trailer c ourts a nd
optional commercial container service fees” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown
and Ms. Broyles).
“An Ordinance amending Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Beverages, Section 5.12.060, Sales and
Consumption - Restrictions, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City
Code pertaining to the David R. Romero South Cheyenne Community Park” -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] “Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2010 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to t he pro visions o f W .S. §16- 4-112 and §16-4- 113.”  M otion (per  Co nsent A genda) carr ied.
(#5187)
[CA] “Resolution designating t he Cheyenne Animal Shelter, 800 So uthwest Dr ive, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, as an official animal shelter and animal control facility pursuant to S ection 6.20.010 of
the Code of the City of Cheyenne.”  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5188)
[CA] “Resolution to amend the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plan for Fiscal Year 2009-2010
and reallocate funding for three Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Projects” -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles).
[CA] “A Resolution approving the City of Cheyenne’s Analysis of Impediments to Fair Housing
Choice prepared by the Housing and Community Development Office” -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles).
[CA] “A Resolution Amending Resolution No. 5183 authorizing the Mayor to offer f inancial
incentives to induce certain eligible employees to retire from city service during Fiscal Year 2009-
2010” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown). 
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor to offer retirement financial incentives to members of
the bargaining unit of Cheyenne Firefighters Local Union No. 279, International Association of
Firefighters” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).  
[CA] “A Resolution a uthorizing th e City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to l ease, w ith a n op tion to
purchase, c ertain e quipment for th e S anitation, Recycling a nd Landfill D ivisions” - - r eferred to
Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles).
[CA] “A Resolution approving Temporary Water Service, by User’s Agreement, between the City
of Cheyenne, Board of Public Utilities, and Suncor Energy USA Pipeline Company” -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] “A Resolution repealing Resolution No. 4378; creating a new Resolution establishing fees
and d amage/cleaning d eposits f or u se o f t he C ity o f C heyenne/Kiwanis C ommunity H ouse” --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] “A Resolution establishing fees and damage/cleaning deposits for use of the Community
Center, located at David R. Romero South Cheyenne Community Park” -- referred t o Fi nance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] “A Resolution repealing Resolution No. 4888 and creating a new Resolution establishing
fees for use of rental shelters in the following parks: Holliday Park, Lions Park, Mylar Park, Sun
Valley Park and  Pointe Park” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).  
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, acting by and through its Board of Public
Utilities (BOPU), and Swan Ranch Development for Swan Ranch Development to construct and to
donate to BOPU a private water and sanitary sewer system that runs through the Swan Ranch Rail
Park.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5520)  
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, acting by and through its
Board of Public Utilities (BOPU), and Cheyenne Frontier Days, to outline responsibilities for the
operation and maintenance of the sanitary waste station at Lake Absarraca.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5521)
[CA] Consideration of FAA Grant No. 3-56-0005-45 between the City of Cheyenne, County of
Laramie, and the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the Rehabilitation of Taxiways A3 and B2.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5522) 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, and Cheyenne Frontier Days,
to outline responsibilities during the 2010 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration (Lake Absaracca and
Lions Park areas) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Grant Agreement between the Wyoming Business Council, Business and Industry Division,
State Energy Office, and the City of Cheyenne, to provide State Energy Office - American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funds to the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 4 to State Lease Agreement No. 8-09466 between the City of Cheyenne and
State of Wyoming for parking spaces in the Cox Parking Facility.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.  (#5523)  
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5045 between the City of Cheyenne and J-R
Engineering, LLC for design of the 2009 C heyenne Transit Program Bus Stop Upgrades Project
(Federal Transit Authority/American Reinvestment and Recovery Act) -- referred to Fi nance
Committee.
Renewal of existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill
license, or microbrewery or winery permit) filed with the City Clerk’s Office: Wigwam, Inc. d/b/a
Redwood Lounge and Package Liquor, retail, 2105 E. Lincolnway; Cheyenne Vail Investments, Inc.
d/b/a Gus & Jon’s Crown Bar, retail, 222 West Lincolnway; Poor Richard's d/b/a Poor Richard’s,
retail, 2233 E. Lincolnway; W.W. Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Les’ Lamp Lounge and Drive-In Liquor,
retail, 101 W. 6th St.; The Blue Bird, Inc. d/b/a Uncle Charlie's, retail, 6001 Yellowstone Road;
Langhoff En terprises d/b /a Two  B ar B owl, ret ail, 740  C arlson; Cheyenne OTB , L LC d/b /a
Wyoming OTB, ret ail, 3307 Nat ionway; Fraternal Order o f Eagles Aerie #128, l td. ret ail, 1600
Thomes Ave.; B.P.O. Elks #660, ltd. retail, 100 E. 17th St.; Cheyenne 28, LLC d/b/a C.B. & Potts
Rest., retail, 1650 Dell Range Blvd.; KEG, Inc. d/b/a D.T.’s Liquor Mart & Tusker Bar, retail, 3310
Ridge Road; JKLL, Inc. d/b/a The Drunken Skunk, retail, 1617 Capitol Ave.; Twin Dragon Chinese
Rest., Inc. d/b/a Twin Dragon, rest., 1809 Carey Avenue; South Side Bar, Inc. d/b/a Keg 'n Kork
Liquors, retail, 822 Central Ave.; Rande’s Ritz, LLC d/b/a Midtown Tavern, retail, 1303 E. Pershing
Blvd.; Cheyenne Country Club, ltd. retail, 800 Stinner Road; F & G Corp. d/b/a The Green Door,
retail, 301 E . L incolnway; E NI, In c. d/b /a Eagl e's Nes t, ret ail, 1101 W . L incolnway; Out back
Steakhouse of Florida, LLC d/b/a Outback Steakhouse, retail, 1626 Fleischli Parkway; Bedrock
Seafood, Inc. d/b/a Mayflower Rest., retail, 112 W. 17th St.; Four Winds, Inc. d/b/a Four Winds,
retail, 1 103 E. P ershing; EKG, In c. d /b/a D .T.'s Pa ckage L iquor a nd L ounge, re tail, 2 121 E.
Lincolnway; Alf in Wyoming Enterprise, LLC d/b/a Alf's Pub and Package Liquor, retail, 1622 E.
19th St.; Flatland Investments, LLC d/b/a Godfather's Pizza, rest., 5719 Yellowstone Road; Francis
E. S elf P ost # 6 d /b/a T he A merican L egion Post #6, l td. r etail, 2 001 E . L incolnway; P rimos
Cheyenne d/b/a Sc otty’s Pizza Factory, res t., 18 02 Dell Range; F.E. Warren Post #1 881 d /b/a
V.F.W. Post #1881, ltd. retail, 2816 E. 7th St.; Knights of Columbus Council #801 d/b/a Casey's
Club, ltd. retail, 507 W. 28th St.; Blanne Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Cool River Wine & Spirits, retail,
5225 Yellowstone Rd.; Mantiff Cheyenne Hospitality, LLC d/b/a Hitching Post Inn, retail, 1600 W.
Lincolnway; Airport Golf Club, Inc., ltd. retail, 4801 Ce ntral Ave.; Qiu Wei Sheng d/b/a Golden
House Chinese Rest., rest., 1651 Carey Ave., #8; Katrina M. and Adam L. Howell d/b/a Scooter's
Scoreboard Bar, retail, 507 E. Lincolnway; Cloud 9, Inc. d/b/a Cloud 9 Rest. and Lounge, retail, 300
E. 8th Ave.; Texas Roadhouse of Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Texas Roadhouse, retail, 1931 Bluegrass
Circle; HEJE, Inc.d/b/a Outlaw Liquors, retail, 4503 Western Way; KZ Corporation d/b/a Goofy’s
Tavern, re tail, 2801 E. L incolnway; Stillwater, In c. d /b/a Mingles, re tail, 1 618 Stillwater Ave.;
Prairie View Golf Club, ltd. retail, 3600 Windmill Road; Albany, Inc. d/b/a Albany Rest., Bar and
Liquormart, retail, 1506 Capitol Ave.; Mehn, Inc. d/b/a Casa De Trujillo, rest., 122 W. 6th St.; S&W
Properties, LLC d/b/a Vinos Wine and Spirits, retail, 453 Vandehei Ave., #190;  The Plains Hotel
Co., LLC d/b/a The Plains Hotel, resort, 1600 Central Ave.; Real Mexican Foods, Inc. d/b/a Los
Amigos Rest.,  rest., 620 Central Ave.; Avanti, Inc. d/b/a Dell Range Liquor, retail, 3806 Dell Range
Blvd., Suite 4; Pizza Hut on Yellowstone, Inc, rest., 5320 Yellowstone Rd.; Hotel West I, LP d/b/a
Holiday Inn Cheyenne, re sort, 204 W. Fox Farm Rd.; AMVETS P ost # 10, ltd. re tail, 3 839 E.
Lincolnway; Mo reno & Re yes, LLC d /b/a G uadalajara Fa mily Me xican Rest., r est., 1 745 D ell
Range B lvd.; P izza H ut o f C heyenne d /b/a P izza H ut/Wing Street, rest., 4 503 W estern W ay;
Bighorn A ssociates, L C  d /b/a C hili's South west G rill a nd B ar, r etail, 1 320 D ell R ange B lvd.;
Appaloosa Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Sanford’s Grub & Pub, retail, 115 E. 17th St.; Wild West Apple
Ventures d/b/a Applebee's Neighborhood Grill and Bar, retail, 1401 Dell Range Blvd.; Delilah R.
Pineda d/b/a Estevan's Cafe, rest., 1820 Ridge Road; GMRI, Inc. d/b/a Red Lobster #639, retail,
1923 Dell Range Blvd.; Dynasty Café, Inc. d/b/a Dynasty Cafe, rest., 600 W. 19  St.; Mondelloth
Corporation d/b/a L’Osteria Mondello, rest., 1507 Stillwater; China Buffet, Inc. d/b/a China Buffet,
rest., 1958 Dell Range Blvd.; RGLM, Inc. d/b/a Avanti Italian Rest., rest., 4620 Grandview Ave.;
Shadows Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Shadows Pub & Grill, rest., 115 W. 15th St., #1; Jose Luis
Gomez-Salcedo d/b/a Los 3 Caballos, rest., 1907 E. Lincolnway; Nagle-Warren Mansion, LLC d/b/a
Nagle-Warren Mansion LLC, rest., 222 East 17  St.; OC Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Old Chicago Rest.,th
retail, 1734 Meadowland Dr.;  Sandra J. Innis d/b/a 2 Doors Down, rest., 118 E. 17th St.; Iron Chefs,
Inc. d/b/a Tokyo Bowl, rest., 1829 Dell Range Blvd.; Jerry P. Innis d/b/a Pizzeria Venti, rest., 112
E. 17  St.; Shadows Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Shadows Pub & Grill, microbrewery, 115 W. 15th St.;th
Suite 1901, CL LC d/b/a The Winery at 1901, winery, 1901 Central Ave.; OG o f Cheyenne, Inc.
d/b/a The Olive Garden Italian Rest., bar & grill, 1536 Dell Range Blvd.; Moreno and Aguilar, LLC
d/b/a Hacienda Guadalajara, bar & grill, 317 E. Lincolnway; O’Jackson’s, Inc. d/b/a  Jackson’s All
American Sports Bar & Grill, bar & grill, 1121 Old Town Lane; WYOMEX II, Inc. d/b/a On The
Border, bar & grill, address not issued (located on Meadowland Dr. across from Old Chicago); Suite
1901, CLLC d/b/a Suite 1901, bar & grill, 1901 Central Ave.  City Clerk Carol Intlekofer offered
a suggestion that in lieu of reading the list of liquor license renewals for the 2010-2011 t erm, as
shown on the meeting agenda, the listing itself be recorded in its entirety in the official minutes of
the meeting, together with any motions and votes.  She noted, pursuant to state statute requirements,
publication o f t he n otice o f ren ewal appl ications an d po sting o f n otices o n respe ctive l icensee
premises have been achieved and the holding of a public hearing before the governing body has been
conducted.  She further stated that the City Attorney has advised that this statement on the record
provides s ufficient d ocumentation t o identify t hose individual r enewal a pplications t hat may be
acted upon at the meeting.  Upon query by Mayor Kaysen to members of the governing body, there
was no objection voiced to recognize the renewal applicants as listed on the agenda in lieu of the
Clerk r eading t he individual applicants.  Mr.  Br own moved t o app rove t he r enewal app licants,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to divide the question to allow for a separate vote on
the renewal application filed by Sandra J. I nniss d/b/a 2 Do ors Down, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Motion to divide the question carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
Mr. Brown moved to approve the renewal application filed by Sandra J. Inniss d/b/a 2 Doors Down,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Spiker declared a conflict of interest (business interest) and vacated
Council Chambers.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in
Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Spiker returned to Council Chambers.
Mr. Brown moved to divide the question to allow for a separate vote on those renewal applicants
who received 2 or more failures during the Police Department’s last 2 compliance checks and also
for the renewal application for Bedrock Seafood, Inc. d/b/a Mayflower Restaurant, seconded by Mr.
Pierson. Motion to divide the question carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body
present.   Mr. Brown moved to approve the renewal applications as divided in the previous motion
that carried, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Mr. Brown stated that following discussion and conclusion
of last week’s Finance Committee meeting, information had been received from Capt. Schulz, Police
Dept., th at th ere w ere no renewal a pplicants th at r eceived 2  or  more failures d uring th e last 2
compliance checks,  t herefore, t he Mayflower Restaurant renewal application was t he o nly o ne
involved in the motion on the floor.  John Parker, owner of Mayflower Restaurant, reviewed the
current status (minor remodeling, new management, re-opening lounge only without food services
at this time) and future plans involving restaurant o perations.  C omments followed in support of
renewing t he l icense, di sturbances an d call s for police ser vices, co mpliance ch ecks, an d p ast
management co ncerns.  Upo n i nquiry, Po lice C hief Bri an K ozak rev iewed depart ment reco rds
research co ncerning t he number o f calls for service and repo rting part ies.  Comment was made
referencing a statement made by an applicant representative when the retail liquor license was before
City Council to approve a transfer of ownership to the current licensee (re: utilization of a bar and
grill liquor license instead of a retail liquor license).  Mr. Parker advised the statement was made by
a previous representative, who was no longer with the business, and clarified the facility does need
a full retail liquor license to operate as a lounge environment without restaurant (food) services.
Motion to approve the renewal application for Bedrock Seafood, Inc. d/b/a Mayflower Restaurant
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Comments followed regarding
the ne ed t o c ontinue p romotion o f p olice c ompliance c hecks a nd TIPS ( alcohol s erver a nd
employee) training.  M ain motion to approve remaining renewal applications (en masse) carried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 22, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for
Maria Ramos d/b/a El Charrito Mexican Grill, 216 E 17  Street, Cheyenne, WY.th
Announcement was made of a Public Meeting to be held March 22, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers for t he purpo se o f amending Re solution No . 4859 pert aining t o 2007-2010
Optional One Percent Sales Tax Funding due to a projected shortfall in collections.
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Lane Pilbin to the International Fire Code
Board of Appeals; Terry Livingston to the Greenway Advisory Committee; Cindy Pomeroy to the
Police Civil Service Commission; and Rita Watson and Rick Schum to the Personnel Commission,
to be confirmed March 22, 2010.
Under other City business:
Joe Elkins, Better Check Cab, local business owner, commended the Mayor and City Council
members on the recent hiring of Police Chief Brian Kozak, and expressed concerns with other public
transport t axicab co mpanies o perating i n v iolation o f s tate l aw, al so ref erencing Ci ty Co de
provisions, and lack of violation enforcement, which would provide revenue to the City to assist
with its financial situation. Mayor Kaysen advised a new ordinance is in draft form regarding public
transport companies. 
Mike Langhoff questioned guidelines for tournament-style poker events and enforcement
of g ames he  be lieved t o be  i llegal, r eferencing a dvertising f lyers he had a cquired r egarding
upcoming p oker e vents.  C omments f ollowed r egarding g ames being c onducted th at a re n ot
following the City’s recently enacted ordinance.  Upon inquiry, City Clerk Carol Intlekofer clarified
one permit had been issued since the ordinance went into effect and when individuals apply for a
tournament-style poker event permit in addition to the application form, they are also given a copy
of the ordinance and affiliated administrative guidelines. Comments continued on the administrative
guidelines.  Upon inquiry, City Attorney Dan White advised he would proceed with adopting the
administrative g uidelines u nder p rovisions o f t he Wy oming Ad ministrative P rocedure Ac t a nd
would communicate with Police Kozak to discuss the means of distribution of information to those
who may be affected.
Mr. Valdez commented on complaints he had received regarding pot holes throughout town.
Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, advised the formation of pot holes are an on-going
problem, exacerbated this winter by freezing/thawing conditions. He requested citizens report pot
holes requiring repair through the on-line (City’s website) Request Partner reporting system or by
phoning t he h ot line n umber a t 6 37-6263.  M ayor K aysen c ommented that o nly a  c old mix
temporary repair can be utilized during winter months and when warmer weather arrives a more
lasting patch can be applied, and expressed appreciation to the public for their patience.
Mayor Kaysen recognized youth members of the community in attendance at the meeting.
There b eing n o f urther b usiness t o come b efore t he go verning b ody, t he m eeting was
officially adjourned at 7:08 p.m. 
 
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 March 19, 2010