MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-03-22 | CLIP_ID: 146 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 146

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
March 22, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  Pr esent w ere: M AYOR - Richard L . K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS: Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Absent:
Ms. Case, Mr. Pierson and Dr. Rinne.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  Mayor Kaysen recognized members of Boy Scout Troop
216 who led the pledge of allegiance.
Ms. B royles r ecognized L isa S cholz, E xecutive D irector, Cheyenne-Laramie C ounty
Methamphetamine Initiative and expressed appreciation to the Meth Initiative Committee members.
She pro vided a b rief hi story o f t he es tablishment o f t he m eth i nitiative, h ow t he pro gram h as
benefitted the community through the Meth Resource Center and specifically noted Ms. Scholz’
efforts in educating the public on the dangers of using methamphetamine. Ms. Broyles advised the
meth initiative program will continue on a voluntary basis by interested members of the community.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Ms. Ash, and pursuant to support received by Mr.
Collins and Mr. Spiker, agenda item #34(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Collins
moved t o appro ve remaining Co nsent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Bro wn. Motion carried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 8, 2010.  M otion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body on March 15, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Upon i nquiry, C ity Cl erk C arol In tlekofer e xplained s everal b usiness l icense f ee re funds w ere
included in the voucher listing involving overpayments.  Upon further inquiry, City Treasurer Barb
Dorr, Parks and Recreation Asst. Director Todd Feezer and Engineering Services Director Nathan
Beauheim provided information available for a voucher payable to BOPU ($2,140.88) for water tap
fees at the David Romero Youth Activity Center. Mr. Spiker moved to remove the BOPU voucher
for payment until further clarification could be provided, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” - al l members o f t he go verning body present.  Upon inquiry regarding a v oucher
payable t o Meridan Fire & Security ($805), Fire Chief Guy Cameron advised services involved
repair of the fire system panel located at the Fire Training Facility.  Motion to approve remaining
vouchers carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive input and comments for a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Maria Ramos d/b/a El Charrito Mexican
Grill, 216 E 17  Street, Cheyenne, WY.  T here being no comments and purpose of the hearingth
having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the item to Finance Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public meeting to receive input and comments for the purpose of
amending Resolution No. 4859 pertaining to 2007-2010 Optional One Percent Sales Tax Funding
due t o a pr ojected shortfall in co llections.  Vicki Nemecek, A ssistant Director, P ublic Works,
advised a n anticipated r evenue shortfall o f 5  p enny sales t ax has necessitated a review o f t heth
recommended d istribution o f fu nds a nd r eported s ales t ax c ollections w ere e stimated t o fa ll
$4,999,500 short of the projected $45,000,000 original estimate.  She reviewed the status of projects
and proposed re-allocation of funds in various areas.  Mayor Kaysen advised an affiliated agenda
item (Resolution Amending Resolution No. 4859) would be reviewed at the Monday, April 5, 2010
(11:00 a.m.) Finance Committee meeting.  Frank Cole spoke in opposition to reduction in street
maintenance and construction (repair) projects, particularly regarding snow removal.  Connie Sloan-
Cathcart, Director, United Way of Laramie County, clarified 23 human resources agencies will be
affected by t he p roposed c uts in funding. There being no  further c omments o r d iscussion a nd
purpose of the meeting having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public meeting.
“An Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated
in the SW¼ NW¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., of the 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyomingth
(located south of Plain View Road, west of Point Bluff, and north of Apache Street).  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#3885)
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 1 7.08.040 C heyenne C ity m ap o f the Cheyenne C ity C ode, by  c hanging t he z oning
classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential Established District to PUD Planned Unit
Development District for Lot 1, Original City Block 140, Refinement A, Cheyenne, W yoming
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of  E. 24  Street and Warren Avenue).”  Bradth
Emmons, A VI r epresentative, r eviewed co ncerns t hat were di scussed at  t he Pub lic Serv ices
Committee meeting with regard to construction work hours, construction parking, clean-up of streets
during construction, and access to the construction area which will be located off of 25th Street.  Ms.
Ash moved to approve on second reading with staff recommendation #1, seconded by Mr. Collins.
Concerns were expressed regarding the effect of construction work times and parking involving the
neighborhood, replacement of trees and building design standards.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
– all members of the governing body present.
“An Ordinance amending a portion of the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation Fee Schedule to add
monthly r ecycle d umpster s ervice fees f or a partments, m ultiplex d wellings, t railer c ourts a nd
optional commercial container service fees.” Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown  moved
to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute,
seconded by Ms. Broyles.  I t was advised the proposed substitute involves language clarification
regarding commercial collection fees.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing b ody p resent.  M ain mo tion a s a mended by s ubstitute c arried.  V oting “ yes” –  a ll
members of the governing body present. 
“An Ordinance amending Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Beverages, Section 5.12.060, Sales and
Consumption - Restrictions, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City
Code pertaining to the David R. Romero South Cheyenne Community Park.”  Mr. Brown moved
to a pprove o n s econd r eading, s econded by Mr. V aldez.  M otion c arried.  V oting “ yes” –  a ll
members of the governing body present.
An Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated
in Sections 12 and 13, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6  Principal Meridian, Laramieth
County, Wyoming (located East of Southwest Drive, South of Interstate 80, West of BNSF Railroad,
and North of Woodenshoe Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee (due to postponement
from Feb. 22, 2010).
[CA] “Resolution to amend the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plan for Fiscal Year 2009-2010
and reallocate funding for three Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Projects.”  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5189)
[CA] “A Resolution approving the City of Cheyenne’s Analysis of Impediments to Fair Housing
Choice p repared by t he H ousing a nd C ommunity D evelopment O ffice.”  M otion ( per C onsent
Agenda) carried.  (#5190)
[CA] “A Resolution Amending Resolution No. 5183 authorizing the Mayor to o ffer f inancial
incentives to induce certain eligible employees to retire from city service during Fiscal Year 2009-
2010.”  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5191)
“A Resolution authorizing the Mayor to offer retirement financial incentives to members of
the bargaining unit of Cheyenne Firefighters Local Un ion No. 279, International Association of
Firefighters.”  Jon Narva,  President, Firefighters Local Union No. 279, and firefighters Bill Hinz,
and T. J. Haws, spoke in favor of the resolution, advising the proposed financial concessions would
save the city money, assist with reducing potential furlough days and reductions in work force, and
reflect s upport f or o ther C ity non-union e mployees. M r. B rown a dvised t here w as no
recommendation f rom t he Fi nance C ommittee.  T here being no  m otion o ffered t o a dopt, t he
resolution died due to lack of a motion.  Under other City business it was questioned whether there
was a connection between the retirement financial incentives and recent re-negotiation involving
the Firefighters contract.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Narva advised the funding for the financial incentives
was contingent upon City Council approval and was not related to re-negotiation of certain areas of
the Union contract with the City. Upon inquiry regarding whether the City would incur any savings
had the resolution been approved, Fire Chief Guy Cameron reviewed the voluntary Union contract
re-negotiation process initiated by City administration in light of the economy and reduced revenues
the City would be receiving from the state level, and components of topics involved in discussions
relative t o co st s avings (i .e. m anpower l evels, el imination o f Ci ty’s co ntribution t o def erred
compensation program an d reduct ion o f Ci ty’s co ntribution t o pen sion, un iform al lowance
reduction, medical examination costs, e tc.).  H e stated calculations involving t he resolution and
retirement financial incentives would result in minimal savings to the City.  Ms. Broyles clarified,
pursuant to a previous comment she had made during discussions on potential employee furlough
days, t hat if any furlough days were n ecessary as a co st savings measure t hat she would t ake a
proportionate cut in compensation relative to the reduced pay employees would receive.
[CA] “A Resolution a uthorizing th e City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to l ease, w ith a n op tion to
purchase, cert ain equipment for t he Sanitation, Recycling and Landfill Divisions.”  M otion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5192)
[CA] “A Resolution approving Temporary Water Service, by User’s Agreement, between the City
of Cheyenne, Board of Public Utilities, and Suncor Energy USA Pipeline Company.”  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5193)
[CA] “A Resolution repealing Resolution No. 4378; creating a new Resolution establishing fees
and damage/cleaning deposits for use of the City of Cheyenne/Kiwanis Community House.”  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5194)
[CA] “A Resolution establishing fees and damage/cleaning deposits for use of the Community
Center, located at David R. Romero South Cheyenne Community Park.”  M otion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5195)
“A Resolution repealing Resolution No. 4888 and creating a new Resolution establishing
fees for use of rental shelters in the following parks: Holliday Park, Lions Park, Mylar Park, Sun
Valley Park and  Pointe Park.”   Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown
moved t o amend by substitute t o include David R. Ro mero So uth Cheyenne Community Park,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body present.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body present.  (#5196)
“A Resolution authorizing submission of a Federal Mineral Royalty Capital Construction
Account Grant (Chapter 28) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the
Governing B ody f or t he C ity o f C heyenne f or t he p urpose o f p urchasing a  c onstruction a nd
demolition recycling material processing system” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Collins).  Mr. Brown advised the item was discussed under other items for the agenda at the Finance
Committee meeting and that provisions of Title 2, City Code, had been met.  Mr. Brown moved to
adopt, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body
present.  (#5197)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Original City
Block 140, Refinement A, a replat of Lots 1-8, Block 140, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of E. 24th Street and Warren Avenue)” -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution amending Resolution 4859 due to a shortfall in projected collection of the
Optional One Perce nt Sales Tax for calendar years 2007 t hrough 2010” --  referred t o Finance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the transfer of funds in the approximate amount of $400,000.00
from t he C ity’s So lid W aste M anagement F und t o t he Ge neral F und” --  ref erred t o F inance
Committee (sponsors - Ms. Broyles and Mr. Pierson).
[CA] “A Resolution amending Resolution No. 2852 establishing a payment schedule for Stage II
of the Cheyenne Water Project” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Ms. Broyles and Mr.
Pierson).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing
Body o f t he C ity o f C heyenne f or t he p urpose o f B uilding t he Ea st Pe rshing B oulevard
Reconstruction Project” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles and
Mr. Pierson.).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing
Body of the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of Purchasing a Fire Engine for Station #3” -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles and Mr. Pierson).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing
Body of th e City of Cheyenne for th e p urpose of Rehabilitating Westland Road” - - r eferred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
[CA] “A Resolution prioritizing the City of Cheyenne's three grant applications to the State Loan
and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne for Mineral Royalty
Capital Construction Account (Chapter 3) Funds” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms.
Broyles).
Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, and Cheyenne Frontier Days,
to outline responsibilities during the 2010 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration (Lake Absaracca and
Lions Park areas).  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to
amend the signature line for Cheyenne Frontier D ays by removing “CEO” and replacing it w ith
“General Chairman”, s econded b y Mr. V aldez.  M otion to amend c arried.  V oting “ yes” –  a ll
members o f the governing body present.  M ain motion as amended carried.  V oting “yes” – all
members of the governing body present.  (#5525)
[CA] Grant Agreement between the Wyoming Business Council, Business and Industry Division,
State Energy Office, and the City of Cheyenne, to provide State Energy Office - American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funds t o t he City o f Cheyenne.  Mo tion (per  Co nsent Agenda)
carried.  (#5526)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Josh Cossitt, to provide tennis services and
instruction for the 2010 season -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Patrick Swafford, to provide tennis services
and instruction for the 2010 season -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract b etween t he C ity o f Ch eyenne an d Sa nborn, Co lorado Spr ings, CO  f or Hi gh
Resolution Aerial Photography -- referred to Finance Committee.
Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5045 between the City of Cheyenne and J-R
Engineering, LLC for design of the 2009 C heyenne Transit Program Bus Stop Upgrades Project
(Federal T ransit A uthority/American R einvestment a nd Recovery A ct). M r. B rown m oved to
approve i n a n a mount n ot to e xceed $ 9,700.00, s econded b y M r. V aldez. U pon i nquiry, J oe
Dougherty, Director of Transit, clarified three new proposed bus stop locations for Frontier Mall,
Target a nd S tinson/Lincolnway w ere b eing e liminated d ue to r ight-of-way ( ROW)/acquisition
complications, and noted these stops would be maintained at their current locations.  He explained
the funding from the three eliminated stops will provide funding for 10-12 additional s helters
without R OW a cquisition r equirements. M otion c arried.  V oting “y es” – all m embers o f t he
governing body present.  (#5045)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-14-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Naranjo
Civil Constructors, Inc., of Greeley, CO for the 17  Street Parking Lot Project (State Loan andth
Investment Board)  -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of L ane Pi lbin t o t he In ternational F ire C ode B oard o f A ppeals; Te rry
Livingston to th e G reenway A dvisory C ommittee; C indy P omeroy to th e P olice C ivil S ervice
Commission; and Rita Watson and Rick Schum to the Personnel Commission.  Mr. Collins moved
to approve, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Under other City business, Frank Cole commented on unsightly recycling/trash containers
on City streets and suggested an analysis on the placement of the containers be conducted relative
to beautification efforts, noting some residents have no option for a container storage site.
In the absence o f Ms. Case, Ms. Broyles raised t he former’s concern regarding a recent
media announcement involving closure of restrooms in City parks.  Assistant Parks and Recreation
Director Todd Feezer clarified the restrooms are closed Nov. 1 thru March 31 but will be open April
1 through Oct. 31.
There b eing n o f urther b usiness t o co me b efore t he go verning b ody, t he m eeting was
officially adjourned at 7:18 p.m. 
 
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 April 3, 2010