MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-04-12 | CLIP_ID: 148 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 148

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
April 12, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil Chambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS: Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker
and Mr. Valdez.  Absent:  Ms. Case.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Valdez and Dr. Rinne, agenda items #15 and 16 were removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon
request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash, agenda item
#20 was re moved from the Consent Ag enda. Mr. Brown moved to appr ove remaining Consent
Agenda items, sec onded by  M r. Valdez. Motion carr ied. Voting  “y es” – a ll members of the
governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 22, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouche rs Meeting of the Gover ning Body on April 5, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Ms. Ash moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Ms. Broyles. Mr.
Collins and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers payable
to the Bicycle Station and Radio Station KYOY respectively) and vacated Council Chambers. Upon
inquiry, City Treasurer Barb Dorr, provided information available for vouchers payable to Dex West
LLC ($140.25), advertising in yellow pages for Civic Center and Sanitation Department, and Accent
Plumbing and He ating ($149.90), De pot building re stroom repa irs, and Cintas Fire  Protection
($323.30), annual inspection of kitchen system, hood, etc. in Depot building.  The City Attorney was
requested to revie w the lea se agreement regarding City vs. tenant De pot building maintenanc e
responsibilities.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in
Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Collins and Mr. Valdez returned to
Council Chambers. 
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential Established District to PUD Planned Unit
Development District for Lot 1, Orig inal City Block 140, Refinement A, Che yenne, Wyoming
(located at the nor thwest corn er of  the intersec tion of  E. 24  Street and Warr en Ave nue).”th
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  Ms. Ash moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon
inquiry, L isa Paffor d, Building  and De velopment offic e, ad vised the substitute includes
incorporation of pre vious staff re commendation #1 re garding landscape setbacks, and pr ovides
language regarding neighborhood architectural character considerations, size limitation for food
service area, additional landscaping and parking requirements, and elimination of freestanding signs.
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Comments
followed regarding the planting of replacement trees, pursuant to the orig inal street tree planting
system, incorporated into the PUD in a n effort to retain the area’s historic tree character.  Ma in
motion as amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
(#3886)
“An Ordinance amending a portion of the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation Fee Schedule to add
monthly rec ycle du mpster se rvice fee s for a partments, multiplex  dwelling s, trailer c ourts and
optional commercial container service fees.” Upon inquiry by Ed Strader, Dennis Pino, Solid Waste
Director, provided information on the proposed f ee sc hedule, whic h is based upon the
number/frequency of pickups.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez. Upon inquiry, Mr. Pino advised there is currently
one container placed at duplexes, clarified business recycling is currently voluntary, and explained
that apartments fall under the residential, not commercial, fee category.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#3887)
“An Ordinance amending Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Beverages, Section 5.12.060, Sales and
Consumption - Restrictions, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City
Code pertaining to the David R. Romero South Cheyenne Community Park.”  Mr. Brown moved
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all
members of the governing body present.   (#3888)
“An Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated
in Sections 12 and 13, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6  Principal Meridian, Laramieth
County, Wyoming (located East of Southwest Drive, South of Interstate 80, West of BNSF Railroad,
and North of Woodenshoe Drive).”  Kathleen Sheehan, area property owner, requested consideration
of a postponement to further research possible removal of Woodenshoe Drive from the proposed
annexation property, and to allow her additional time to evaluate potential future monetary liability
involving deve lopment cos ts.  Providing c omments in support of Ms. Sheehan’s r equest for
postponement were Dan Frank, Frank Law Office, attorney representing Ms. Sheehan, who also
reviewed boundaries of Ms. Sheehan’s property relative to affiliated potential development costs
due to annexation; Gay Woodhouse, attorney representing residents along Southwest Drive, and Leo
Garcia.  Topics presented included the City’s previous Swan Ranch annexation action currently in
litigation, contiguity issues, and prior postponements requested by and approved for the developer
of the proje ct.  Mike B asom, Dray, Thomson and Dy ekman law firm, attorney representing the
developer, spoke in opposition to postponement, noting previous postponements requested by the
developer were to address concerns expressed by residents in the area.  Mr. Basom requested the
annexation process be allowed to move f orward, and commented that any action on the previous
Swan Ranch annexation would be handle d through a court decision.  Ms. Sheehan indica ted her
belief that Woodenshoe Drive did not necessarily need to be included in the annexation area.  Ms.
Woodhouse noted previous postponements approved for the developer, noting a past postponement
was for the developer to seek permission from the railroad.  Ms. Ash moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Collins. Upon inqui ry regarding what communica tion or actions had
transpired between the developer and property owners since the last postponement wa s granted,
Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for applicant, clarified they had met with Ms. Sheehan r egarding the
annexation area and criteria to be designed through the platting process, and indicated until the plat
design is completed it is unknown whether Woodenshoe Drive should be included.  He stated they
have been working with City, County, WYDOT and BOPU staff on various issues.  Ms. Sheehan
verified she had met with the developer and certain staff involved and still has concerns regarding
several planning/development areas that could affect potential development of her property and the
financial burden annexation may cause her.  Ms. Woodhouse advised she has been meeting with her
clients as well as conducting other research during the most recent postponement time frame.  Ken
Clark, Gar rett Proper ties, develope r, advised h e started mee ting with landowne rs last summer
regarding the  pr oposed a nnexation a nd de velopment p roject to address i ssues, a nd sp oke in
opposition to postponement.  Comments followed regarding previously raised concerns with area
traffic, drainage, water and sewer, etc., which issues may not be able to be  completely addressed
until the platting process is started (i.e. after annexation), and cost to the developer to proceed with
the platting design process without knowing whether the annexation will be approved. Upon inquiry
regarding the inclusion of Woodenshoe Drive in the annexation area, Matt Ashby, Planning Services
Director, advised the key to including Woodenshoe Drive involves a long standing policy that has
been developed to assist with mitigating development impact on adjacent rights-of-way.  He noted
if changes were to be made to the annexation map by removing Woodenshoe Drive, “402 criteria”
would need to be re-evaluated.  Upon inquiry regarding measures taken to resolve Ms. Sheehan’s
concerns, Mr. Clark advised he has met with Ms. Sheehan and told her they would work with her
and others as the deve lopment moves forward during the plattin g process to seek solutions. M r.
Valdez moved to postpone for one month, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion to postpone failed.
Voting “yes” – Mr. Valdez.  Voting “no” –  Ms. Ash, Mr . Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr.
Pierson, Dr. Rin ne, Mr. Spiker and  Mayor Kaysen.  Ma in motion carried.  Vo ting “yes” – a ll
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Valdez voting “no”.
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 C heyenne City  map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from PUD Planned Unit Development District to MR-2 Medium Density Residential-
Developing District for L ots 1 through 14 inc lusive of Dry  Creek T win Homes Subdivision,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as a portion of Woodhaven Subdivision (located west of College
Drive, be tween the  Dry Creek  Channel and McCann A venue)” --  ref erred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential-Established District to MUB Mixed Use with
Business Emphasis District for L ots 1 and 2 ; and the north 66-feet of Lots 3 and 4, Bloc k 195,
Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. 23rd
Street and Russell Avenue)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Original City
Block 140, Refinement A, a  replat of L ots 1-8, Block 140, Orig inal City, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of E. 24th Street and Warren Avenue).”  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5198)
“A Resolution amending Resolution #4859 due to a shortfall in projected collection of the
Optional One Percent Sales Tax for calendar years 2007 through 2010.”  Mr. Brown moved to adopt,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Dept., provided information
on reduced level of funding percentages for certain areas and agencies affected, and clarified the
dollar amount proposed to be reduced for economic development.  Discussion followed on reduced
funding for economic development purposes; funding for the City’s LEADS membership, and other
available funding to assist with possible infrastructure requirements related to businesses that may
be intere sted in building in Chey enne.  Ms. Ne mecek provided in formation on infrastruc ture
development funding and explained the difference between budget line items for infr astructure
development vs. economic development and allowable use of each fund.  Concern was voiced with
reducing the funding level for economic development.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members
of the governing body present. (#5199)
“A Resolution authorizing the transfer of funds in the approximate amount of $400,000.00
from the City’s Solid Waste Management Fund to the General Fund.” Eric Hardgrave, Cheyenne
Public Employees Association (CPEA) President, spoke in favor of the resolution and intent of the
resolution.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Concerns were expressed that
transferring the funds into the general fund at this time may be premature based on the current fiscal
year (FY) 2010 budget and upcoming discussion on the FY2011 budget to be held at a Council work
session scheduled for April 22.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone for two weeks (to April 26, 2010)
to allow for discussion to be he ld involving the resolution at the Counci l’s budget work session,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  U pon inquiry, City Treasurer Barb Dorr stated, based upon the last
analysis of the current budget, it appears revenues and expenditures may balance out for the FY2010
budget but it is not absolutely certain yet whether the funds may be needed for the current fiscal
year, noting the f unds, or a  portion thereof, may be needed to balance next year’s budget which
currently reflects a $1.4 million shortfall.  Discussion followed and included the following topics:
Governing body’s fiscal responsibility, postponement of the resolution to allow for information on
next year’s budget to be received at the work session, intent of the resolution, which is to eliminate
possible employee furlough days for the remainder of the current budget year, need to utilize the
funding for either the current and/or next fiscal year, and suggested use of City reserves vs. funds
from the Solid Waste Management fund. Ms. Dorr clarified the $400,000.00 will be included in
discussion at the Council’s budg et work se ssion with May or Kaysen providing  additional
information of funding topics that will be discussed at the work session.  Discussion continued.  Ms.
Dorr provided additional information regarding level of revenues being received and, upon inquiry,
advised the estimated level of City reserves at the end of FY2010, if revenues and expenditures are
even, is $6.75 million of which $4.4 million is available for use (less than a 30 day reserve) with the
remaining funds being encumbered.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Brown, Ms.
Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. S piker and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting  “no” – Ms. Ash, Mr . Pierson, Dr.
Rinne and Mr. Valdez.
“A Resolution amending Resolution No. 2852 establishing a payment schedule for Stage II
of the  Che yenne Wat er P roject.”  Ed  Str ader s poke in favor o f t he re solution wh ich w ould
temporarily suspend the City’s annual payment to the Board of Public Utilities (BOPU).  Er ic
Hardgrave, CPEA President, spoke in favor of the resolution explaining suspension of the payment
will help save employee jobs.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Comments
followed on the upcoming Council work session to discuss the FY2011 budget.  Mr. Brown moved
to postpone for two weeks (to April 26, 2010), seconded by Mr Collins.  Mr. Hardgrave stated the
resolution, relative to the $1.4 milli on shortfall as previously identified by the City Treasurer for
next y ear’s budg et, is a key  component in balanc ing the  budg et. Comments followed on the
governing body’s fiscal responsibility, public perception on deferring the City’s annual payment to
the BOPU and indebtedness to future Council members, postponement to allow for information to
be received during the upcoming budget work session, and informal comments being made that are
causing fear to employ ees relative to fina ncial circumstances if the  City does make  the annua l
payment.  Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”.
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing
Body of the City  of Chey enne for the purpose of  Building  the East Pershing  Boule vard
Reconstruction Project.”  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5200)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing
Body of the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of Purchasing a Fire Engine for Station #3.”  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5201)
“A Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing
Body of the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of Rehabilitating Westland Road.”  Mr. Brown moved
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, which clarifies the
City’s grant match amount, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  U pon inquiry, Cindy Schneider, Grants
Manager, advised the original cost estimate was refined, resulting in a higher revised estimate which
affected the City’s match.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body present.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body present.  (#5202)
“A Resolution prioritizing the City of Cheyenne's three grant applications to the State Loan
and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne for Mineral Royalty
Capital Construction Account (Chapter 3) Funds.”  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.
Pierson.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon inquiry, Cindy
Schneider, Grants Manager, clarified the substitute provides for a clerical correction.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Upon inquiry regarding
inclusion of Snyder Avenue as one of the a pplication projects, Ms. Schneider advised due to the
timeliness of the upcoming  g rant a pplication deadline, inc lusion of that project c ould not be
achieved by the deadline.  Comment was made that perhaps the Snyder Avenue project could be
considered for future applications. Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” –
all members of the governing body present.  (#5203)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to s ign a Final Plat for BOPU
Subdivision, a replat of Block 149, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest
corner of the inter section of Sny der Avenue and W. 24  Street)” -- r eferred to Publi c Servicesth
Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution acknowledging receipt of and approving the “West Allison Road Corridor
Study” pre pared by Western R esearch and D evelopment, Ltd., for the Chey enne Me tropolitan
Planning Organization” -- r eferred to Publi c Services Committee (sponsors - Ms. Case a nd Mr.
Valdez).
[CA] “A Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in agreement
with the Laramie County Board of Commissioners as to the current Countywide Consensus Block
Grant application to the State L oan and I nvestment Boa rd” - - re ferred to F inance Commi ttee
(sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Woodhaven Subdivision, a replat of Lots 1 & 2, B lock 1, Fa rson
Addition and L ots 1 through 14 inclusive of D ry Creek T win Homes Subdivision, C heyenne,
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Wills Road, south of the Dry Creek Channel and Parkview
Drive) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Josh Cossitt, to provide tennis services and
instruction for the 2010 season.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to City in amount
of $500). (#5529)  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Patrick Swafford, to provide tennis services
and instruction for the 2010 season.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to C ity in
amount of $100). (#5530)  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Sanborn Map Co., Inc., Colorado Springs, CO
for High Resolution Aerial Photography.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5531)
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing be tween L aramie County , Wy oming, a nd the City  of
Cheyenne, to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College, the
City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to the City -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United States of America for limited hunting
within the boundaries of the Central Great Plains Field Station -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc. to authorize the
use of the parking lot leased from the United States Department of the Air Force, located on F.E.
Warren A ir F orce Base, f or t ransportation s ervices d uring t he 2 010 C heyenne F rontier D ays
celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School
District No. 1 to provide transportation services during the 2010 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration
-- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc. to authorize the
use of buses leased to the City by Laramie County School District No. 1 to provide transportation
services during the 2010 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement betwe en Laramie County , Wy oming, a nd the City  of Chey enne to pr ovide
methamphetamine p revention a nd e ducation p rogram s ervices. (American R ecovery &
Reinvestment Act, Edwa rd B yrne Me morial J ustice Assistance  Gran t) -- referred to Fina nce
Committee. 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School
District No.1 to provide transportation services for Summer Recreation Camp -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement between the City  of Chey enne, Par ks & Rec reation
Department, and Kone, Inc. for complete design and build of an Americans with Disabilities Act
compliant elevator at Taco John’s Ice & Event Center (State Loan & Investment Board) -- referred
to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion #1 to C ontract #5220 betwee n the City  of Chey enne Sanitation
Department and Tatooine Electronic Systems for the recycling of electronic waste -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #5052 betwe en the City  of Chey enne Sanitation
Department and Wyoming Salvage for removal of all appliances, metals and steel from the City
Landfill -- referred to Finance Committee.   
[CA] Contract Modifica tion #2 to C ontract #5056 betwee n the City  of Chey enne Sanitation
Department a nd Ma gic City  En terprises f or so rting, p rocessing, a nd ma rketing of  re cyclable
materials -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to  Contract between the City of Cheyenne and The Sanborn Map
Company, I nc., Co lorado Spr ings, CO , f or Hi gh Re solution Ae rial Ph otography --  re ferred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #5477 between the City of Cheyenne and Recco, Inc.,
d/b/a Five-R Company for Tyvek house wrap & reconfiguration of the retaining wall at the Transfer
Station (Solid Waste Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to C ontract #5468 between the City  of Chey enne and Reiman
Corp. to place existing traffic signal interconnect lines underground for the Carey Avenue & Pioneer
Avenue Rehabilitation Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Consideration of Bid #M-14-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Naranjo
Civil Constructors, I nc., of Greeley, CO for the 17  Street Parking  Lot Project (State L oan andth
Investment Board).   Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $97,017.00, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Spiker declared a conflict of interest (owner of business property located in the
vicinity) and vacated Council Chambers.  Upon inquiry regarding possible use of a portion of the
lot during construction, Bob Bradshaw, Special Projects Director, explained the contract is for a 30
day construction window and if any of the lot was left open for use during construction the project
could risk being delayed and it is planned to have the lot completed by the Cheyenne Frontier Days
celebration.  He stated notification through the Downtown Development Authority and the City will
be made to those individuals who utilize the parking lot advising of alternate parking areas during
construction.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  F ollowing a nnouncement o f t he vote, M r. Spi ker r eturned to  Cou ncil Ch ambers.
(#5532)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-16-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group,
Inc., d/b/a Knife River, for the FY 2010 Concrete Overlay Project for Street and Alley Department
(2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M -17-10 for a c ontract between the City of C heyenne and S&S
Builders, LLC, for FY 2010 Intersection Repair Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-18-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Don Kehn
Construction, Inc., Ft. Collins, CO, for FY 2010 Inlet Repair Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-19-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group,
Inc., d/b/a Knife  River, for a nnual contra ct for f urnishing a ggregates for  the Street a nd Alley
Department (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-20-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group,
Inc., d/b/a Knife River, for annual contract for hot plant mix, asphalt tack oil and cold mix for Street
and Alley Department (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-10-10 between the City of Cheyenne and Rehrig Pacific Co., Los
Angeles, CA, for  furnishing  and deliver ing 10,000 a utomated refuse carts for  the Sanitation
Department -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Restaurant liquor license applica tion filed with the C ity Clerk’s Office for Maria Ramos
d/b/a El Charrito Mexican Grill, 216 E. 17  Street, Cheyenne, WY. Motion (per Consent Agenda)th
carried.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held in City Council Chambers, 2101
O’Neil Avenue,  on April 26, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. for the City  of Chey enne Compre hensive
Consolidated Plan for 2010-2014 and the Annual Action Plan for Fiscal Year 2010-2011 for the City
of Cheyenne Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) entitlement.
Announcement was made  of the a ppointment of Edwar d F. Murr ay, III to the Chey enne
Downtown Development Authority Board, to be confirmed April 26, 2010.                                   
     
Announcement was made of the reappointment of John Parks to the International Fire Code
Board of Appeals and Mona Pearl to the Cheyenne-Laramie County Economic Development Joint
Powers Board, to be confirmed April 26, 2010.
Under other business, Mr. Collins congratulated Ms. Ash for recently acquiring her masters
degree in Public Administration from the University of Wyoming.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:43 p.m. 
 
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 April 23, 2010