MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-04-26 | CLIP_ID: 150 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 150

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
April 26, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil Chambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS: Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker
and Mr. Valdez.  Absent:  Ms. Case.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash, ag enda item #16 wa s removed f rom the Consent Ag enda. Mr. Spiker
moved to approve  remaining Consent Ag enda items, sec onded by Mr. Valde z. Motion carried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on April 12, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body on April 19, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for the purpose of receiving comments and input for
the City of Cheyenne Comprehensive Consolidated Plan for 2010-2014 and the Annual Action Plan
for Fiscal Year 2010-2011 for the City of Cheyenne Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
entitlement.  Deanne Widauf, Housing and Community Development Office, provided an overview
of the CDBG entitlement program and the Comprehensive Consolidated Plan, and cited some of the
identified Plan goals and objectives.  She noted the Consolidated Plan also incorporates the Annual
Action Pl an f or fi scal year 2 010-2011 fo r w hich th e City’s e stimated e ntitlement a llocation is
$580,253.00 with an anticipated additional $5,000 in program income.  Ms. Widauf described the
grant application process; public notifications and opportunities for input; oversig ht of the g rant
process by  the Adv isory Council, and the Advisory  Council’s review  and re commendations
involving elig ible applications.  She identi fied proposed re commended pr ojects and pr ogram
administration, and estimated funding allocation amount for each.  Upon inquiry regarding proposed
funding for a Parks and Recreation structural safety and restoration project, Rick Parish, Parks and
Recreation Direc tor, clar ified the proje ct involves re- siding a nd ener gy eff icient window
replacements for the Pioneer Park Activity Center.  Th ere being no further comments or input,
Mayor Kaysen advised the purpose of the hearing had been met and closed the hearing.
Mayor Kaysen welcomed students and their parents in the audience who were attending the
meeting in conjunction with a school project.
“An Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated
in Sections 12 and 13, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6  Principal Meridian, Laramieth
County, Wyoming (located East of Southwest Drive, South of Interstate 80, West of BNSF Railroad,
and North of Woodenshoe Drive).”  Francis Shive; Doris Garcia; Ellie Sturman; Leo Garcia; Dave
Wilkinson; Kathleen Sheehan; Gay Woodhouse,  attorney representing residents along Southwest
Drive; D an F rank, F rank L aw O ffice, a ttorney re presenting Ms. Sheehan, a nd Jef f K etcham,
Laramie County Commissioner, spoke in opposition of the proposed annexation.  Among the topics
presented and discussed were:  City/County zoning regulations; health, safety and welfare concerns
involving the volume of train and vehicular traffic and affiliated traffic congestion and delays;
unknown property development plans by the developer; annexation criteria pursuant to Wyo. Stat.
§15-1-402; contiguity concerns relative to annexation of Swan Ranch area; county island creation;
mental a nd fi nancial st ress t o area residents a nd c oncerns in volving fu ture mon etary lia bility
involving infrastructure costs; request to eliminate Woodenshoe Drive  from the annexation area;
timeliness of emergency services response, and suggestion that a “sketch plan” be required to review
developer’s proposed  i nfrastructure, transportation and drainage solutions. Mike Basom, Dray,
Thomson and Dy ekman law  firm, attorne y repr esenting the devel oper, spoke in fa vor of the
annexation to enable the platting process to move forward to address issues raised involving safety
and traffic concerns.  He stated no changes to the area after annexation will be made until a plat is
prepared and approved by the g overning body.  Reporting  for Public Services Committee, Mr.
Collins moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Discussion followed
and included: Area access; traffic and transportation issues; property owner’s (developer) request
for annexation; contiguity; area residents’ concerns that have been raised, and train traffic at the
crossing on Southwest Drive.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body
present with the exception of Mr. Valdez voting “no”. (#3889)
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Cheyenne City map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the z oning
classification from PUD Planned Unit Development District to MR-2 Medium Density Residential-
Developing District f or L ots 1 through 14 inc lusive of Dry  Creek Twin Homes Subdivi sion,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as a portion of Woodhaven Subdivision (located west of College
Drive, between the Dry Creek Channel and McCann Avenue).”  Mr. Collins moved to approve on
second r eading, s econded b y M s. A sh.  M r. Sp iker d eclared a  c onflict o f in terest ( distant
relationship with the developer) and vacated Council Chambers.  Concern was expressed with uses
allowed under the MR-2 zone as approved by the Board of Adjustment.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement
of the vote, Mr. Spiker returned to Council Chambers.
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08. 040 Chey enne City  map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential-Established District to MUB Mixed Use with
Business Emphasis District for Lots 1 and 2; and the north 66-feet of Lots 3 and 4, Block 195,
Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. 23rd
Street and Russell Avenue).” Dr. Stephanie Erlich, homeowner in the area, spoke in favor of the
zone chang e and pr oposed use of the building w ithin the hist oric ne ighborhood.  Rev. Dan
McKinley, SonRise Church of the Nazarene (property owner), requested approval of the ordinance,
advising the object of the re-zoning request involves potential sale of the property to assist with
building a new church; that the church has a contract with a funeral home interested in the property,
and that this type of use would be suitable for the location.  Mr. Collins moved to approve on second
reading with Planning Commission restriction that “the use be limited to allow only a funeral home
and related services,” seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Comments were made regarding restricted property
use if sale of the property to the funeral home did not occur, and possible further discussion on the
topic at the next Publ ic Services Committee meeting.  Upon inquiry on whether other re-zoning
actions had involved r estrictions on the ty pe of businesse s allowed, L isa Paffor d,
Building/Development Office, provided information on two recent conditional zoning restrictions
approved by the governing body.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the g overning
body present.
“A Resolution authorizing the transfer of funds in the approximate amount of $400,000.00
from the City’s Solid Waste Management Fund to the General Fund.” (Postponed on 04-12-10).
Reporting for F inance Committee, Mr. B rown moved to a dopt, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr.
Brown moved to postpone for two weeks (to May 10, 2010), seconded by Dr. Rinne.  It was noted
that the Committee’s recommendation to postpone was to allow time for information to be received
at the Council’s budget work session (held April 22 ).  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “no” –nd
all members of the governing body present.  Comments followed regarding the probability that the
funds would n ot be needed relative to FY 2010 employee furlough days or to balance the current
fiscal year budget, but that the funds will be needed to help balance the FY2011 budget; time frame
on transferring the amount into the g eneral fund, and replenishing the Solid W aste Management
Fund.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Ms. Ash, Mr. Collins and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#5204)
“A Resolution amending Resolution No. 2852 establishing a payment schedule for Stage II
of the Cheyenne Water Project.” (Postponed on 04-12-10).  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded
by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone for two weeks (to May 10, 2010).  Motion failed
due to lack of a second to the motion.  Di scussion followed and included: “on/off budgeting”
practices; current economic conditions; governing body’s fiscal responsibility; reduced municipal
funding from the state ; public perc eption on defe rring the City ’s annua l pay ment to BOPU;
indebtedness to future governing bodies; suggestion of inserting a specific date in the resolution as
to when payment(s) to repay BOPU would be made; ba lancing the budget being a separate issue
from 5  Penny Sales Tax; reducing budget costs through attrition instead of further reductions inth
employee work force; re visiting the re solution topic next fiscal y ear relative to status of budg et
revenues/expenditures; partial payments scenario; employee job security; legal reviews reflecting
the annual payment is not a requirement, and concern with the effect on public services if additional
reductions in work force occur.  Upon inquiry regarding how many employee jobs may be affected
if the $1,000,000 payment is not deferred, City Treasurer Barb Dorr responded that approximately
15 jobs equates to $1,000,000.  Discussion continued and included:  Options for consideration (i.e.
use general fund reserves for the payment; impose additional reductions in work force, or delay the
payment); willingness by BOPU to m ake the payment; public perception; reluctance to i mpose
further work force reductions; across-the-board employee salary cuts and job sharing as cost savings
measures, and status  of budget savings suggestions submitted from e mployees.  Ma yor Kaysen
provided the f ollowing information in response to discussion topics: Post poning action will not
achieve a balanced budget required to be approved by July 1 ; stronger revenues than anticipatedst
for next fiscal year could allow for  a payment(s) to BOPU to be ac ted upon; resolution wording
providing for  suspension of the bond pay ment, not forg iveness of ma king the  pay ment; non-
opposition by the BOPU regarding delay of the City’s payment; clarification that bondholders will
be paid, and that water rates, per information provided by BOPU, will not increase based upon the
City’s suspension of pay ment.  He further informed that employ ee suggestions that have be en
submitted are being pursued and some have merit; general fund reserves amount is “borderline”
pursuant to the Resolution on the level of cash reserves, and that across-the-board employee salary
reductions had been a nalyzed.  M r. Spiker moved to amend r esolution wording  in the Now,
Therefore, Be It Resolved paragraph as follows: “ ... that Resolution No. 2852, adopted F ebruary
11, 1985, is hereby amended to temporarily suspend the $1,000,000.00 pay ment to the Boa rd of
Public Utilities which is due on December 1, 2010, FOR A PERIOD OF 1 YEAR.”, and strike the
remainder of  th e s entence, s econded b y M r. B rown.  [C lerk’s n ote: R emainder o f th e c urrent
sentence to be removed reads: “and the suspension of said payment will remain in force and effect
until such tim e as the  governing body elects to repea l the suspension.”] Ms. Dorr advised the
proposed amendment would mean there would then be a $2,000,000 burden on the general fund
budget for that year, and commented generally on budget considerations.  Comment followed on the
intent of the motion to amend, which was not to incur a $2 million dollar payment within a fiscal
year, but to insert a date specific for the City to make payment.  Mr. Brown withdrew his second to
the motion. Upon request for amendment wording assistance, City Attorney Dan White suggested
proposed language could be as follows: “ ... that Resolution No. 2852, adopted February 11, 1985,
is h ereby a mended to  te mporarily su spend the  $1 ,000,000.00 p ayment t o th e Board of  Pub lic
Utilities which is due on December 1, 2010 until December 1, 2011, and to temporarily suspend the
$1,000,000.00 payment to the Board of Public Utilities which is due on December 1, 2011 until
December 1, 2012.”  Mr. Spiker moved to amend per Mr. White’s suggested wording, seconded by
Mr. Brown.  Comments followed on specifying payment dates vs. current wording addressing one
payment and BOPU approval with the current wording.  Mr. Spiker withdrew his motion to amend
with concurrence by Mr. Brown as second to the motion.  Mr. Spiker moved to amend the paragraph
as follows: “ ... temporarily suspend the $1,000,000.00 payment to the Board of Public Utilities
which is due on December 1, 2010 UNTIL DECEMBER 1, 2012.", and revise affiliated language
as necessary in the resolution, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” –
all members of the governing body present.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Dorr advised yearly payroll costs
in total is approximately $34,000,000.  Comments followed on reducing employees’ salaries to make
up the $1,000,000 def icit.  Ms. Dorr a dvised a g ood portion of the $34,000,000 pay roll budget
involves health insurance coverage costs and a  percentage cut in pay would not affe ct insurance
costs unless employees were asked to pay a larger portion of the insurance payment.  Main motion
as ame nded ca rried. V oting “ yes” – Mr . Br own, Ms. Br oyles, Mr. Pierson , Dr. Rinne, Mayor
Kaysen.  Voting “no” - Ms. Ash, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Spiker. (#5205)
“A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to s ign a Final Plat for BOPU
Subdivision, a replat of Block 149, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest
corner of the intersection of Snyder Avenue and W. 24  Street).”  Brad Emmons, AVI, agent forth
BOPU, advised the plat is for a new BOPU administration building, noting the preliminary plat had
been previously approved as well as a resolution relative to State Land and Investment Board (SLIB)
funding.  Mr. Col lins reported there was no re commendation on the item fr om Public Services
Committee.  Mr. Pierson moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Comments followed on whether
utilization of vacant building sites in the community had been investigated; support for the project
and area enhancement for the Snyder/24th site, and past Council work session discussion relative
to the project and building site, which will add on to a present building.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Collins and Dr. Rinne
voting “no”.  (#5206)
[CA] “A Resolution acknowledging receipt of and approving the “West Allison Road Corridor
Study” pre pared by Western Resea rch a nd Deve lopment, Ltd., for the Chey enne Me tropolitan
Planning Organization.” Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5207)

“A Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in agreement
with the Laramie County Board of Commissioners as to the current Countywide Consensus Block
Grant application to the State L oan and Investment Board.” Cate Cundall, Town of Pine Bluf fs
Clerk/Treasurer, and Cindy  Schn eider, G rants Mana ger, pr ovided information on a pr oposed
substitute resolution reassigning previously allocated project funds to the Town of Pine Bluffs to
a different Town pr oject due to an emergency situation invol ving the Town’s non-w orking 911
response system.  Ms. Schneider clarified that under the consensus process, funding from the past
biennium has already been allocated to the Town and to enable a project change it must be agreed
to by all entities within the county, stating the change involves no financial impact to the City.  Mr.
Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to am end b y s ubstitute,
seconded by Mr. Pierson.  It was advised the substitute would include language to “add one project
for the town of Pine Bluffs.”  Upon inquiry, Ms. Schneider confirmed the resolution, including the
amendment, is  a  tim ely ma tter d ue to S LIB’s a pplication d eadline, a nd tha t th e Cou nty
Commissioners have the item on their upcoming meeting agenda.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting
“yes” – a ll members of the g overning body  prese nt.  Comm ent was ma de supp orting other
communities’ needs involvin g the consensus block grant process.  Main motion as amende d by
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#5208)
[CA] “A Resolution adopting the City of Chey enne Comprehensive Consolidated Plan 2010-
2014, which has been prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office” --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Ms. Broyles and Mr. Pierson).
[CA] “A Resolution supporting providing funds from the City’s Optional One Percent Sales Tax
Infrastructure Development Fund for the pur pose of extending infrastructure required to provide
non-stop je t se rvice be tween Ch eyenne, Wy oming, a nd Da llas, Te xas, on  American A irlines”
((2007 - 2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms.
Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen).
Preliminary Plat for Woodhaven Subdivision, a replat of L ots 1 & 2, B lock 1, Fa rson
Addition and L ots 1 through 14 inc lusive of Dry  Creek T win Homes Subdivision, C heyenne,
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Wills Road, south of the Dry Creek Channel and Parkview
Drive).  Mr. Spiker declared a conflict of interest (distant family relationship) and vacated Council
Chambers.  Kelly Hafner, Benchmark Engineers, agent for the applicant and property owner, stated
the item is affiliated with an early item (#10) on the agenda and that the replat of previous items that
have come before the governing body and will clean up several issues involving the project area,
and noted development intent is for town homes (multi-family housing).  Mr . Collins moved to
acknowledge receipt of the pre liminary plat with staff re commendations #1 and staf f
recommendation #3 as outlined in the substitute staff report, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Concern was
expressed that alleyways should be provided behind housing developments to provide for rear vs.
street front garages.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in
Council Chambers with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Following announcement of the
vote, Mr. Spiker returned to Council Chambers.
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n L aramie Cou nty, Wy oming, a nd the City  of
Cheyenne, to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College, the
City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to the City.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (funding to the City in an amount not to exceed $71,347.65).  (#5534)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United States of America for limited hunting
within th e boundaries of the Central Gre at Plains Field Station. Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried.  (#5535)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc. to authorize the
use of the parking lot leased from the United States Department of the Air Force, located on F.E.
Warren A ir F orce B ase, f or t ransportation s ervices d uring t he 2 010 C heyenne F rontier D ays
celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5536)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School
District N o. 1  t o p rovide t ransportation s ervices during t he 2 010 C heyenne F rontier D ays
celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $30,000.00).  (#5537)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc. to authorize the
use of buses leased to the City by Laramie County School District No. 1 to provide transportation
services during  the 2010 Chey enne F rontier Da ys cele bration.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried.  (#5538)
[CA] Agreement betwee n L aramie County , Wy oming, a nd the Cit y of Cheyenne to pr ovide
methamphetamine p revention a nd e ducation p rogram services. ( American R ecovery &
Reinvestment Act, Edwa rd B yrne Me morial J ustice Assistance  Gra nt.   Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5539)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School
District No.1 to provide tra nsportation services for Summer Rec reation.  Moti on (per Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5540)
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the Cit y of Cheyenne, Par ks & Rec reation
Department, and Kone, Inc. for complete design and build of an Americans with Disabilities Act
compliant elevator at Taco John’s Ice & Event Center (State Loan & Investment Board).  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $247,457.00).  (#5541)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Boys and Girls Club of Cheyenne, Inc.,
to lease the building located at 1700 Snyder Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion #1 to C ontract #5220 betwee n the City  of Chey enne San itation
Department and Tatooine Electronic Systems for the recycling of electronic.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5220)
[CA] Contract Modifica tion #2 to C ontract #5052  between the City  of Chey enne Sanitation
Department and Wyoming Salvage for removal of all appliances, metals and steel from the City
Landfill.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5052)  
[CA] Contract Mo dification #2 to Contract #5056 be tween the  City  of Chey enne Sanitation
Department a nd Ma gic City  En terprises f or so rting, p rocessing, a nd ma rketing of  re cyclable
materials.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5056)

[CA] Contract Modification #1 to  Contract #5531 between the City of Cheyenne and The Sanborn
Map Company, Inc., Colorado Spring s, CO, for Hig h Resolution Aerial.  Moti on (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $98,702.26).  (#5531)
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #5477 between the City of Cheyenne and Recco, Inc.,
d/b/a Five-R Company for Tyvek house wrap & reconfiguration of the retaining wall at the Transfer
Station (Solid W aste F und).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$7,750.00).  (#5477)
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to C ontract #5468 between the City  of Chey enne and Reiman
Corp. to place existing traffic signal interconnect lines underground for the Carey Avenue & Pioneer
Avenue Rehabilitation Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $21,587.50).  (#5468)
[CA] Amendment #1 to Contract #5327, Transmission Easement License Agreement, between the
City of Cheyenne and Silver Sage Windpower, LLC for transmission of electricity across a certain
portion of the City's Happy Jack Landfill property -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-16-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group,
Inc., d/b/a Knife River, for the FY 2010 Concrete Overlay Project for Street and Alley Department
(2007-2010 1%  Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to exceed
$355,060.35).  (#5542)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-17-10 for a con tract between the City of C heyenne and S&S
Builders, LLC, for FY 2010 Intersection Repair Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $267,899.60).  (#5543)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-18-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Don Kehn
Construction, Inc., Ft. Collins, CO, for FY 2010 Inlet Repair Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $72,316.35).  (#5544)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-19-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group,
Inc., d/b/a Knife  River, for a nnual contract for fur nishing a ggregates for  the Street a nd Alley
Department (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  M otion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to
exceed $22,500.00).  (#5545)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-20-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group,
Inc., d/b/a Knife River, for annual contract for hot plant mix, asphalt tack oil and cold mix for Street
and Alley Department (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $377,080.00).  (#5546)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-10-10 between the City of Cheyenne and Rehrig Pacific Co., Los
Angeles, CA, for  furnishing and delivering  10,000 automated r efuse car ts for the Sanitation
Department.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $515,120.00).  (#5547)
Appointment of Edward F. Murray, III to the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority
Board.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve, seconded by Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote
(Mayoral appointment).
                                         
Reappointment of John P arks to the International Fire Code Board of Appeals and Mona
Pearl to the Cheyenne-Laramie County Economic Development Joint Powers Board.  Mr. Collins
moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing b ody present with the exception of May or Ka ysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointments).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 10, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat
§ 15-1-402 exists for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of Tracts 7 and 10, Dell Range
Addition 2  Filing; Lot 3, Smithson View, together with a portion of Carla Drive, Thomas Road andnd
College Drive, Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located north of and adjacent to Carla Drive,
between Ridge Road and College Drive).
Under other business, Ms. Ash provided brief information on an educational project through
the State Dept. of Education involving a NASA funded grant involving construction of wind turbines
and middle school student participation, and that the project may provide an opportunity for city
involvement.
There being  no further  business to come before the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:09 p.m. 
 
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 May 6, 2010