MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-05-10 | CLIP_ID: 152 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 152

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
May 10, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil Chambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS: Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr.
Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
RECOGNITION O F F IRE A ND R ESCUE C HIEF G UY E . C AMERON O N H IS
RETIREMENT.  City  Clerk Carol I ntlekofer rea d a May oral proc lamation into the rec ord
recognizing Chief Cameron for his years of service to the residents of Cheyenne and proclaiming
May 19, 2010 Guy  E. Cameron D ay.  May or Ka ysen pre sented Chief Came ron with the
proclamation, a plaque of appreciation for his 32 years of dedicated service to the City and a 100
year anniversary Fire Department commemorative medallion.  Appreciation was expressed by
Mayor Kaysen and members of the governing body on the Chief’s a chievements benefitting the
department and community.  Chief Cameron commented on his positive employment experience
with the City, and expressed appreciation to past and present mayors and members of the governing
body for their trust and confidence in him and also to co-staff with whom he has worked over the
years.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Pierson moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on April 26, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Gover ning Body on May  3, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services, and vacated Council Chambers. Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to
Union Pacific Railroad ($5,561.57 for flagging costs), Doug Vetter, City Engineer, explained the
majority of flagging expenses should be completed relative to the Norris Viaduct project.  Motion
carried.  Vo ting “ yes” – a ll m embers of the governing bo dy pr esent i n Co uncil Ch ambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for the purpose of receiving comments and input to
determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat § 15-1-402 exists
for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of Tracts 7 and 10, Dell Range Addition 2  Filing;nd
Lot 3, Smithson View, together with a portion of Carla  Drive, Thomas Road and College Drive,
Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located north of and adjacent to Carla Drive, between Ridge
Road and College Drive).  Don Threewitt, Urban Planning, reviewed requirements and compliance
of c onditions c ontained in  Wy o. St at. § 15-1-402, in cluding s pecific in formation in dicating
compliance with Wy o. Stat. §15-1-402(a )(i) throug h (vi). Robin Huber que stioned whether  a
development proposal had been submitted, and requested the name of the developer.  Mr. Threewitt
clarified a development plan had not yet been submitted, and provided the names of the developers,
who are the property owners.  Mayor Kaysen advised any questions involving the prope rty to be
annexed could be communicated to Mr. Threewitt.  There being no further comments or input and
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from PUD Planned Unit Development District to MR-2 Medium Density Residential-
Developing District f or L ots 1 through 14 inc lusive of Dry  Creek T win Homes Subdivision,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as a portion of Woodhaven Subdivision (located west of College
Drive, between the Dry Creek Channel and McCann Avenue).”   Due to any perception of conflict
involving distant family  ties with the develo per, Mr. Spiker dec lared a conf lict of interest a nd
vacated Council Chambers.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve
on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Collins.  M s. Ash moved to amend by  subst itute,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  It was noted, pursuant to discussion and amendments recommended by
the Public Services Committee, the substitute includes the addition of the word “conditional” in the
ordinance entitlement and in Section 1.; inserts a new section which reads as follows: “That the zone
change was conditioned by  the Gove rning Body to allow only those uses by  right and uses by
administrative approval.  No other uses shall be allowed by Board Approval.  All other requirements
for the MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing District will remain as outlined in Section
17.48 of the Cheyenne City Code.”, and includes the following staff recommendation: “A condition
be placed on the approval of the zone change that the applicant record a “Notice of Conditional
Zone” to provide public notification of specific restriction to prospective buyers”.  It was further
noted the intent of the changes is to protect the neighborhood by providing that any development
of apartment buildings/complexes would require the consent of the governing body.  M otion to
amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.
Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body
present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Spiker returned to Council
Chambers. (#3890)
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 1 7.08.040 Chey enne City  map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential-Established District to MUB Mixed Use with
Business Emphasis District for Lots 1 and 2; and the north 66- feet of Lots 3 and 4, Bloc k 195,
Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. 23rd
Street and Russell Avenue).”  Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by
Mr. Collins.  Ms. Ash moved to amend by  substitute, seconded by Mr. Collins.  I t was noted,
pursuant to discussion and ame ndments rec ommended by the Public Services Committee, the
substitute includes the addition of the word “conditional” in the ordinance entitlement and in Section
1.; inserts a new section which reads as follows: “That the zone change was conditioned by  the
Governing Body as follows : The uses by  right shall be limited to # 1. Funeral home and re lated
services within the existing building or #2. Church and related services within the existing building,
no other uses shall be allowed by Administrative or Board Approval.  All other requirements for the
MUB Mixed Use with Business Emphasis District will remain as outlined in Chapter 17.88 of the
Cheyenne City Code.”, and includes following staff recommendation: “A condition be placed on the
approval of the zone change that the applicant record a “Notice of Conditional Zone” to provide
public no tification of s pecific re striction to  pr ospective bu yers.”  Upon inquiry, L isa Paffor d,
Assistant Development Director, clarified related (funeral) services would include offices related
to the funeral business, and services provided for an actual funeral and viewing areas.  Sh e also
advised a crematorium use would not be allowed in this type of zoning district, and to change the
use to include other services would require re-zoning.  Comments followed on the historical nature
of the neighborhood; support received from neighbors concerning the proposed use of the property,
limiting use of the site, and request for postponement received from the applicant’s agent.  Motion
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Ms. Ash moved to postpone
for two weeks (to May 24, 2010), seconded by Mr. Collins.  John Steil, Steil Surveying Services,
agent for applicant, advised the proposed purchaser of the property has inquired about adding a
garage onto the existing building to house funeral service vehicles and with the current language this
would not be allowed.  He noted support for postponement, suggesting the governing body could
consider amending the wording a t the curr ent meeting and move f orward with approva l of the
ordinance.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
“An Ordinance appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said city and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said a ppropriation, all for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2010, and ending June 30, 2011” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms.
Broyles).
“An Ordinance approving and esta blishing revised water rates, as recommended by the
Board of Public Utilities to be effective January 1, 2011” –  referred to Finance Committee (sponsor
- Mr. Brown).
“An Ordinance approving and establishing revised sewer rates, as recommended by the
Board of Public Utilities to be effective January 1, 2011” –  referred to Finance Committee (sponsor
- Mr. Brown).
“An Ordinance approving and establishing revised tap fees, system development fees, pump
station fees a nd other re lated fees recommended by the B oard of Public Utilities to be e ffective
January 1, 2011” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
“An Ordinance approving and establishing revised administrative fees, service charges and
penalties as recommended by the Board of Public Utili ties to be eff ective January 1, 2011” --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
“An Ordinance approving and establishing revised septic waste dump rates and  commercial
waste rates recommended by the B oard of Public Utili ties to be eff ective January 1, 2011” --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] “A Resolution adopting the Cit y of Cheyenne Comprehensive Consolidated Plan 2010-
2014, which has been prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office”.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5209)
[CA] “A Resolution supporting providing funds from the City’s Optional One Percent Sales Tax
Infrastructure Development Fund for the purpose of  extending infrastructure required to provide
non-stop jet service between Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Dallas, Texas, on American Airlines”  (2007
- 2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (not to exceed $200,000.00).  (#5210)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Crow Creek
Water Reclamation Subdivision, situated in a portion of the SE¼ of Section 3, T.13N., R.66W., 6th
P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (l ocated south of S. I ndustrial Road, ea st of S. Col lege Drive)” --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for The Bluffs Subdivision, 8th Filing, situated in a portion of the SW¼
NW¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent
to Og den Road, be tween A pache Street and Plain View  Road) --  ref erred to Public Services
Committee.
[CA] County Preliminary Plat for Deerhaven Subdivision, a replat of Tract 6 and a portion of
Tract 7, Allison Tracts; Tract 2, Hermann Meadows Subdivision; Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 1, Block
1, Ley Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between E. Fox Farm and E. Jeffer son
Roads, east of S. Greeley Highway) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Boys and Girls Club of Cheyenne, Inc.,
to lease the building located at 1700 Snyder Avenue, Cheyenne, WY.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (Revenue to the City $12.00/annually)  (#5548)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use
of the Civic Center for the 2010-2011 Concert Season -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use
of the Civic Center for the Youth Education Concerts -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of WY for dental coverage for full
time city employees -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Authorization for the May or to sign State H istoric Preservation Office (SHPO) Certified
Local Government grant award # 56-10-00000.03 in the amount of $16,680.00 for Class II Cultural
Resource Survey of the Belvoir Ranch property -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment #1 to Contract #5327, Transmission Easement License Agreement, between the
City of Cheyenne and Silver Sage Windpower, LLC for transmission of electricity across a certain
portion of the City's Happy Jack Landfill property.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5327)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M- 15-10 for a contract be tween the  City of Chey enne a nd J TL
Group, Inc., d/b/a Knife River of Cheyenne, WY, for the FY 2010 City Overlay project -- referred
to Finance Committee.
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne
at the 2010 Wy oming Assoc iation of Municipalities convention --  ref erred to Public Services
Committee.
Announcement was made of a public hearing to be held May 24, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, for the purpose of receiving pu blic
comments on the propose d vacation of dedica ted public right-of-way of Civitan Place betwe en
Cribbon Ave. and Dey Ave., the dedicated alley located in Civitan Park between West Leisher Road
and Civitan Place, and the dedicated public park known as Civitan Park, in Arp Addition, 5  Filing,th
generally located south of West Leisher Road between Cribbon Ave. and Dey Ave., consisting of
approximately 54,325.3 sq. ft., for the intended purpose of making the property available for public
school or public educational purposes.   
There being no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:37 p.m. 
 
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 May 17, 2010