MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-05-24 | CLIP_ID: 155 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 155

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
May 24, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil Chambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS: Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and
Mr. V aldez.  A bsent: Dr . Ri nne.  A lso pr esent: Ca rol I ntlekofer, City  Cle rk; B arb Do rr, Ci ty
Treasurer, and Erik Rasmussen, Deputy City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
George Parks, Director of the Wyoming Association of Municipalities (WAM), recognized
Mrs. Johnna Lissman & the 9  Grade Class at Carey Jr. High School and the City of Cheyenne asth
a recipient of WAM’s Community Hero Award for a special community enhancement project.
Jason Sanchez, Director of Grounds and Facilities Maintenance, Parks & Recreation Dept., advised
Carey Jr. High  School’s 9th grade class has assisted the City with a community clean-up day for
the past 13 y ears providing swee ping, c leaning and debr is pickup. Ms. L issman expressed
appreciation to the City, WAM, Carey Jr. High School administration and students, and City staff
involved for providing an opportunity to s tudents to c ombine government education with civic
projects.  Ma yor Ka ysen r ecognized and  tha nked M s. L issman a nd Ca rey Jr. H igh f or the ir
involvement in the community.
Expression of Appreciation to Mayor’s Youth Council and State of the Youth Report.  Mayor
Kaysen and Jan Spires, Mayor’s Youth Council coordinator, commended members of the 2009-2010
Mayor’s Youth Council and presented each with a certificate and gift of appreciation. Youth Council
members recognized were: Kelsey James, Alissa Alyward, Kadi Davis, Samantha Heitsch, Josh
Herr, Karolyn Hopfensperger, Dean Jackson, Ashley Ortiz, Taylar Perez, Katie Poffenbarger, Gary
Sayler, and Mishayla Still.  Kelsey James, Youth Council President, provided a State of the Youth
report and described various accomplishments and issues they supported during the past school year,
and commented on members’ positive interactions and learning experiences through involvement
with local government issues.  Mayor Kaysen expressed appreciation to the members for their time,
commitment and dedication as Youth Council members.  
Recognition of Public Works Project of the Year 2010 Award from the American Public
Works Association, Rocky Mountain Chapter, to the City of Cheyenne for the Dry Creek Sheridan
Reach Flood Control Improvement Project. Doug Vetter, City Engineer, advised it was an honor to
receive this award for a very worthy project that addresses very high life safety and property damage
concerns along Dry Creek.  Mr . Vetter recognized the engineering firm of Ayres Associates and
general contractor, Tarco, that assisted with the project and presented Mayor Kaysen with the plaque
that had been received.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.) Upon request by Ms. Broyles, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Collins and Mr. Brow n, agenda item #30(a) was removed f rom the Consent Ag enda. Upon
request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support rec eived by Mr. Pierson and Mr. B rown, agenda
item #29(b) wa s removed f rom the Consent Ag enda.  Mr . Collins moved to approve  remaining
Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Brown. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Governing Body on May  10, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Gove rning Body on May 17, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Minutes from Special Meetings of the Governing Body on May 4, 2010 and May 18, 2010.
Mayor Kaysen and Ms. Case advised they would not be participating in the discussion or vote as
they were not participants of the governing body for which the Special Meetings were held.  Mr.
Pierson moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” –  all members
of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Case and Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.
Mr. Brown moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Upon inquiry regarding a vouche r payable to Expr ess Towing and Rec overy ($1,755.00), Doug
Vetter, City Engineer, provided information on the service s provided, which involved towing  of
vehicles in conjunction with a crack seal street project.  Upon inquiry regarding vouchers payable
to several bands for upcoming performances at the Depot Plaza for the Hispanic Festival, City
Treasurer Barb Dorr and Mayor Kaysen provided information on funding sources that reimburse the
City for the cost of the bands.  Mr. Collins declared a conflict of interest (business interest involving
the Bicycle Station) and did n ot participate in discussion and the vote . Upon inquiry , Ms. Dorr
reviewed vouc hers pa yable to Ne eds, I nc. ($2,000) , C DBG grant funds f or food to qualifie d
recipients; ARMA (Association of Records Managers and Administrators) International ($190.00),
membership dues; and WAM (Wyoming Association of Municipalities) ($190), annual conference
registration fee. Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen explained the WAM voucher amount is an early
registration rate pa id from the cur rent FY2 010 budget.  Ms. Dorr c larified the  City ’s cur rent
membership in WAM is effective for the remainder of this fiscal y ear.  Motion carr ied.  Voting
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Collins who did not
vote.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for the purpose of receiving public comments on the
proposed vacation of dedicated public right-of-way of Civitan Place between Cribbon Ave. and Dey
Ave., the dedicated alley located in Civitan Park between West Leisher Road and Civitan Place, and
the dedicated public park known as Civitan Park, in Arp Addition, 5  Filing, generally located southth
of West Leisher Road between Cribbon Ave. and Dey Ave., consisting of approximately 54,325.3
sq. f t., fo r the i ntended p urpose of  ma king the  pr operty a vailable fo r p ublic sc hool o r p ublic
educational purposes.  Todd Feezer, Assistant Director, Parks and Recreation Dept., displayed a site
map of the proposed property to be vacated and explained the purpose of vacating the property is
to allow for a new school to be built within the park area.  He stated a land trade between the City
and school district would also be involved.  D ennis Auker, LCSD#1, clarified the property to the
City being considered for exchange is 5 acres in Sun Valley park located on 12  St. He advised anth
appraisal had been done for both properties t o be traded and adjustments have bee n made for an
equal trade.  He advised there is a proposed Greenway along Cribbon Ave.  There being no further
comments and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential-Established District to MUB Mixed Use with
Business Emphasis District for Lots 1 and 2; and the north 66-feet of Lots 3 and 4, Bloc k 195,
Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. 23rd
Street and Russell Avenue).” Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Ms. Ash moved to amend by substitute which
inserts a new section #4 to read as follows: “Placement of up to a 750 square foot addition and/or
accessory building would be permitted” and by renumbering remaining sections, seconded by Mr.
Collins.  Discussion followed on proposed use for the building as a funeral home and the need for
an addition to the building for a garage to store hearses.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” –
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Case and Mr. Valdez voting
“no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
(#3891)
“An Ordinance appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said city and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, all for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2010, and ending June 30, 2011.”  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all
members of the governing body present. Under other business, Mr. Spiker questioned the inclusion
of the City ’s WAM membership dues in the F Y2011 budget with Barb Dor r, City Trea surer,
clarifying the annual LEADS payment, WAM dues and Chamber of Commerce dues are included
in the budget ordinance.
“An Ordinance approving and esta blishing revised water rates, as recommended by the
Board of Public Utilities to be effective January 1, 2011.” Mr. Brown moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute to amend the rate
increase to 3.4% , seconded by Ms. Broyles. Upon inquiry, Tim Wilson, BOPU Director, clarified
the BOPU approved a 6% r ate increase based on the All Urba n Consumer Price I ndex which
encompasses all urban c onsumers water and sewage maintenance and tak es into account r ates
nationwide. He provided information the Board considered relative to determining the amount of
increase, which includes re view of c ost areas during budget preparations, specific infrastructure
projects and p ersonnel costs.   Concer n was e xpressed regarding the basis for the  proposed 6%
increase, and the type of Consumer Price Index information utilized relative to the original intent
of providing for annual review and/or revisions to rates.  Discussion included index information (not
specific to the state or region) used in ascertaining the percentage of rate increase; infrastructure and
BOPU budget needs; increased cost of employee health and pension funding; amount of BOPU
water and sewer reserves; projected revenue to be received if a 3.4% increase is implemented, and
concern with maintaining infrastructure, BOPU loans for current and future specific projects (re:
Southern Transmission project) and consumer rate increase effect.  Motion to amend carried. Voting
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Case voting “ no”.
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with
the exception of Ms. Case voting “no”. 
“An Ordinance approving and esta blishing revised sewer rates, as re commended by the
Board of Public Utilities to be effective January 1, 2011.” Mr. Brown moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute to amend the rate
increase to 3.4%, seconded by Mr. Pierson. Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members
of the g overning body prese nt with the exception of Ms. Case  voting “ no”.  Main motion as
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of
Ms. Case voting “no”. 
“An Ordinance approving and establishing revised tap fees, system development fees, pump
station fees a nd other re lated fees recommended by the Board of Public Utili ties to be eff ective
January 1, 2011.” Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr.
Brown moved to amend by substitute to amend the rate increase to 3.4%, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Motion to amend car ried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the g overning body present with the
exception of Ms. Case voting “no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members
of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Case voting “no”. 
“An Ordinance approving and establishing revised administrative fees, service charges and
penalties as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities to be e ffective January 1, 2011.” Mr.
Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Brown moved to amend
by substitute to amend the amount of the rate increase to 3.4%, seconded by Ms. Broyles. Motion
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of
Ms. Case voting “ no”.  Main motion as amended ca rried.  V oting “yes” – a ll members of the
governing body present with the exception of Ms. Case voting “no”. 
“An Ordinance approving and establishing revised septic waste dump rates and  commercial
waste rates recommended by the Board of Public Utilities to be effective January 1, 2011.” Mr.
Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Brown moved to amend
by substitute to amend the amount of the rate increase for certain areas to 3.4%, seconded by Mr.
Pierson. Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with
the exception of Ms Case voting “no”.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes”
– all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Case voting “no”. 
“An Or dinance amending  Ordinanc e No. 3 880 defining  the Ter ms and Conditions  of
employment for non- uniformed e mployees of  the City  of Ch eyenne” - - re ferred to F inance
Committee (sponsors - Ms. Broyles and Mr. Valdez).
 
“An Or dinance amending  Ordinan ce No. 3881 def ining the T erms and Conditions of
employment for uniformed employees of the Cheyenne Police Department” -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsors - Ms. Broyles and Mr. Valdez).
“An Ordinance amending the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation fee schedule” -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown). 
 
“An Ordinance vacating the 15-foot alley within Civitan Park, two parcels of Civitan Park
and the 60-foot right-of-way of Civitan Place between Cribbon and Dey Avenues, Arp Addition,
Fifth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Cribbon and Dey Avenues, south of W. Leisher
Road)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
“A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Crow Creek
Water Reclamation Subdivision, situated in a portion of the SE¼ of Section 3, T.13N., R.66W., 6th
P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of S. Industrial Road, east of S.  College Drive).” Ms. Ash
moved to  a dopt w ith Pla nning Com mission r ecommendation # 1, se conded b y Mr . Co llins.
Comments followed regarding paving of the street into the facility and who utilizes the road.  Upon
inquiry, Tim Wilson, Director, BOPU, clarified the road primarily serves the employees and uses
of the City of Cheyenne Water Reclamation facilities.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members
of the governing body present.  (#5211)
[CA] “A Resolu tion supporting the City  of Chey enne’s application for  Transpor tation
Enhancement Activities - local (TEAL) funds for landscaping & enhancements on the East Pershing
Blvd. Reconstruction Project and authorizing the Mayor to s ign an  agreement with the State if
awarded” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson and Mr. Brown).
[CA] “A Resolution determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyoming Statute
§15-1-402 exist for the property described as a parcel of land being situated in a portion of Tracts
7 and 10, Dell Range Addition 2  Filing; Lot 3 Smithson View, together with a portion of Carland
Drive, Thomas Road, and College Drive, Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located north of
and a djacent t o Ca rla Dr ive, b etween Ri dge Ro ad and  Col lege Dr ive)” --  re ferred to  Pub lic
Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution increasing the level of funding placed into the Solid Waste Management
Fund for the specific purpose of providing funding to pay for solid waste tipping fees, increased
recycling costs, and paying for the lease purchase of solid waste equipment” -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
Preliminary Plat for The Bluffs Subdivision, 8th Filing, situated in a portion of the SW¼
NW¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent
to Ogden Road, between Apache Street and Plain View Road).  Ms. Ash moved to acknowledge
receipt with s taff recommendation #1, sec onded by  Mr. Collins.  Upon inqui ry reg arding
connectivity to the west of the development (Plain View to Converse Ave.) pursuant to discussion
at the Public Service s Committee meeting, Nathan B eauheim, Engineering Services Director,
advised staff is not in receipt of that information from the developer.  It was noted the item relates
to the Preliminary Plat, not a final plat action.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body present.
County Preliminary Plat for Deerhaven Subdivision, a replat of Tract 6 and a portion of
Tract 7, Allison Tracts; Tract 2, Hermann Meadows Subdivision; Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 1,
Block 1, L ey Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between E. Fox  Farm and E.
Jefferson Roads, east of S. Greeley Highway).  Kelly Hefner, Benchmark Engineers and agent for
the applicant, spoke in s upport of acknowledgment and clarified the purpose of the plat is to
develop the north/south roads in the area.  Mr. Spiker declared a conflict of interest and vacated
Council Chambers. Ms. Ash moved to acknowledge receipt with Laramie County Planning staff
recommendations #1-5, Laramie County Planning Commission recommendations #6 and 7, and
City staff r ecommendations #10, 11, 12, 14, 15 and 18, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Co mments
followed r egarding a nnexation a greements inv olving adja cent l and ow ners, a nd c ommunity
growth.  Mr. Collins moved to postpone to June 28, 2010, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Hefner
advised they would have no objection to the postponement a nd stated there are a lot of issues
involving annexation that they would like to discuss during the postponement time frame.  Upon
inquiry, John Knepper, Asst. City Attorney, clarified the annexation agreements were signed as
covenants to the property and as part of the creation of the South Side Water and Sewer District,
binding present and future property owners.  Upon furthe r inquiry, Mr. Knepper advised if the
properties are annexed there would be adequate contiguity to the City.  Paula Qu alls, Board
member of South Side Water and Sewer District, stated it was her understanding that individual
property owners could not annex, and that any annexation had to involve the entire District.  She
advised many of the c urrent property  owner s have no ide a about the a nnexation
agreement/requirement, and spoke in support of the motion to postpone.  It was advised further
concerns regarding recommendations were raised at the Public Services Committee and should
also be addressed during t he postponement.  Mo tion to postpone carried.  Vo ting “yes” – a ll
members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the
vote, Mr. Spiker returned to Council Chambers.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use
of the Civic Center f or the 2010-2011 Concert Season.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(revenue to City in the amount of $3,200.00 per performance) (#5552)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use
of the Civic Center f or the Youth Educ ation Concerts.  I t was advised the  annual agreement
involves an event that is part of the Symphony’s education program to 5  and 6  graders inth th
Laramie County . Chloe I lloway, Chey enne Sy mphony, explained the prog ram p rovides an
opportunity for student education and participation in music.  Mr. Brown moved to approve in an
amount not to exceed $6,585.00, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Illoway advised the
money assists with payment of professional musicians. Concern was expressed with use of City
funds for the  activity  and City  vs. school dis trict’s re sponsibilities involving this ty pe of
educational program.  Ms. Illoway advised the Symphony pays the City for use of the Civic Center
facility and provided information on funding and support of music education through the school
district.  C omments followed in s upport of the concerts.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes” – a ll
members of the governing body present.  (#5553)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of WY for dental coverage for
full time city employees.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5554)
[CA] Authorization for the Mayor to sign State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) Certified
Local G overnment g rant a ward #  5 6-10-00000.03 i n t he a mount o f $ 16,680.00 f or C lass II
Cultural Resource Survey of the Belvoir Ranch property.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5555)
[CA] Amendments to A greement N os. 5 436-5458 fo r Huma n Se rvices in  the  c ommunity
between the City of Cheyenne and American Red Cross; Boys and Girls Club o f C heyenne,
Wyoming, Inc.; CASA of Laramie County; Cheyenne Health and Wellness Center (Dental Access
and Unified Human Service Eligibility); CIHN (Cheyenne Interfaith Hospitality Network); Climb
Wyoming; Comea, Inc. (Basic Emergency Shelter Services and Transitional Living); Consumer
Credit Counseling Services; Laramie County Community Partnership (Connections Corner and
Cheyenne Area Centralized Pharmacy); Meals on Wheels of Cheyenne, Inc.; Needs, Inc.; Peak
Wellness Center, Inc.; Retired and Senior Volunteer Program; Safe Harbor, A Children's Justice
Center; Safehouse/Sexual Assault Services, Inc.; Southeast Wyoming Foster Grandparent Program
(Helping Community and Helping Youth); Special Friends of Cheyenne; Stride Learning Center,
and Wyoming Senior Citizens, Inc. -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract for auditing services between the City of Cheyenne and McGee, Hearne & Paiz,
LLP for the fiscal years ending June 30, 2010, 2011, and 2012 -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Grant Ag reement betwee n the Wy oming B usiness Council, Busi ness and I ndustry
Division, State Energy Office and City of Cheyenne for American Rescue and Recovery Energy
Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Retrofit 2 -- referred to Finance Committee.
Consideration of B id #M-15-10 for  a contr act between the City of Chey enne and JTL
Group, Inc., d/b/a Knife River of Cheyenne, WY, for the FY 2010 City Overlay project.  Mr.
Brown moved to ac cept the bid in an a mount not to ex ceed $1,062,173.00, s econded by Mr.
Pierson. Upon inquiry regarding the Vandehei portion of the project, Doug Vetter, City Engineer,
discussed the following: Drainage issues on Vandehei, west of Yellowstone; necessity for overlay
work; schedule for WYDOT’s new Vandehei interchange; proposal for new center medians and
removing calming islands (a/k/a “ side-ins”); geometric design; traffic, safety and maintena nce
issues involving the calming islands; opportunity to improve street design features; concern with
setting back the project time frame, and modifying the project without re-bidding.  Comments
followed both for and against the calming islands, and slowing of traffic.  Joe Wiesen, Knife River
representative, clarified they would be willing to work with leaving the calming islands in place
and could work around them to get the project done. Upon inquiry regarding other locations of
calming islands in Cheyenne, Mr. Vetter advised the only other location they have calming islands
is on 12  Street and c larified there has to be a de monstrated need bef ore these are installed.th
Discussion follo wed on snow plow issues with navig ating around the  islands, infrastruc ture,
calming islands and pros and cons, potential alterations to the project, and long term cost effect
regarding maintenance.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Vetter advised they will not get the best overlay trying
to work around the side-ins and paving around them will be a problem. Upon inquiry, Jim Elias,
Public Works Director, advised it is a cha llenge working around the islands with plows, street
sweepers and Sanitation trucks, indicating they can not plow between the islands and curbs. Upon
inquiry, E rik Rasmussen, D eputy City  At torney, a dvised if  the  bid  do cuments ha d s pecific
specifications intermingle d for a ll of the p rojects (3), t he integ rity of the bid could be
compromised if it were modified for one of the projects. Concerns were expressed with changing
the Vandehei project as bid, and discussion was held on utilization of calming islands; change
orders, value engineering and contract modifications; fairness to bidders; intermingling of all
projects in bids received, pedestrian and traffic safety issues. Mr. Collins moved to postpone to
June 14, 2010 to allow for  leg al revie w of the issues r aised during  discussion and the bid,
seconded by Ms. Broy les.  Motion to postpone carried.  V oting “yes” – a ll members of the
governing body present with the exception of Ms. Case and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-22-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL
Group, Inc., d/b/a Knife River of Cheyenne, WY, for the 2009 Cheyenne Transit Program Bus
Stop Upgrades project -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne
at the 2010 Wyoming Association of Municipalities convention.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (Mayor Kaysen Official Voting Delegate; Councilman Spiker Alternate Delegate).
Announcement was made of a public hearing to be held Monday, June 14, 2010 at 6:00
p.m. in City Council Chambers for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public
Utilities for fiscal year 2011.
Under other business, Ms. Broyles announced that a Calcutta will be held Thursday, June
3, 2010  beginning at 7:00 p.m. at Uncle Charlie’s Lounge, 6001 Yellowstone Road, Cheyenne,
WY, in conjunction with the annual Uncle Charlie’s DONE golf tournament to be held June 5,
2010 at the Airport Golf Club (15% of proceeds to benefit the Cheyenne Boys and Girls Club).
Comments followed regarding standing water observed at the Romero  Park parking lot
after the last snow storm.   Todd Feezer, Assistant Director, Parks and Recreation Dept., clarified
mitigation work in the area has been done to reduce or eliminate any standing water in the future.
In response to a c omment regarding water flooding the par k located ne ar Sunrise School, Mr.
Feezer advised irrigation systems in the parks are on a computer controlled system and he was not
aware of any water problems but would check into the matter.
There being no further  business to come bef ore the g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:50 p.m. 
 
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 4, 2010
 