MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-06-14 | CLIP_ID: 158 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 158

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
June 14, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil Chambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and
Mr. Valdez.  A bsent: Mr. Collins.  A lso present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal se quence on  the  a genda.)  Ma yor Kaysen a nnounced th at A genda Item #1 9 c ontains a
clerical error reflecting the item had been referred to Public Services Committee; it should instead
be listed as the Finance Committee.  Upon request by Ms. Case, and pursuant to support received
by Mr. S piker and Ms. Broyles, agenda item #19 wa s removed. Ms. Case  requested removal of
Agenda Item #32(c) with Mayor Kaysen advising the item is a referral to Committee and was not
eligible to b e removed from the Consent Agenda.  U pon request by Ms. Case, and pursuant to
support received by Mr. Spiker and Mr Pierson, agenda item #21 was removed from the Consent
Agenda.  Mr. Brown moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on May 24, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Gove rning Body on J une 7, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to
vouchers payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and radio station KYOY respectively, and vacated
Council Chambers. Upon inquiry , City  Trea surer Barb Dor r and City  Eng ineer Doug  Vetter
provided information available concerning a voucher payable to M&F Towing and Recovery LLC,
towing of vehicles i n conjunction with the street overlay project.  Mr. Spiker moved to approve
payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Pierson. Upon inquiry, Dennis Pino, Solid
Waste Direc tor, provided infor mation conce rning a vouche r payable to Pioneer  Printing for
residential recycling program informational brochures, and Vicki Nemecek, Assistant Public Works
Director, provided information affiliated with a voucher payable to the Wyoming Tribune Eagle for
5  Penny Sales Tax brochures.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing bodyth
present in Council C hambers. Following announcement of the vote, Mr . Brown and Mr. Valdez
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for the purpose of receiving public comments on the
proposed budget for the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities (BOPU) for fiscal year 2011.
City Treasurer Barb Dorr provided a brief summary on the proposed budget explaining the total
appropriation is $119,528,474.00 of which $46,260,700.00 comprises the general fund with a total
City budget of $66,648,774. 00.  The proposed BOPU budget amount is $52,879,700.00.  S he
reported department heads met the goal of a 12% budget cut from the 2010 budget, and provided
other budget information relative to a suspended $1,000,000.00 BOPU payment and savings from
the employee volunteer early retirement offering.  Randy Hayes, BOPU Administration Manager,
provided a brief summary on the proposed BOPU budget explaining the water fund appropriation
is $43,163,700.00 and the sewer fund budget is $9,716,000.00.  He provided further information on
anticipated revenue amounts for each fund, potential grant assistance, and amounts to be funded out
of cash.  There  being no fur ther comments and purpose  of the he aring having been me t, Mayor
Kaysen closed the hearing.
“An Ordinance appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said city and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, all for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2010, and ending  J une 30, 2011.”  E d Melko questioned whe ther propose d
sanitation fee increases were included in the ordinance with Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, responding
that the FY2011 budget includes a 1% increase and if there were any increases following budget
approval, a budget reappropriation could correct the amounts.  Reporting for Finance Committee,
Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Pierson. Dr. Rinne moved
to amend the ordinance to add funding for a child care assistant position for Parks and Recreation’s
Latch Key program in the amount of $41,877.72 to include benefits, and, in the affiliated revenue
line item, to add $42,000.00 to reflect funding to be received to cover the position expense with the
condition that if program revenue generated can not cover position expenses, funding will come out
of the Parks and Recreation budget, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation
Director, e xplained th ere a re tw o f acilities th at have  the  L atch K ey a nd Sum mer R ec. Ca mp
programs (Pioneer Park a nd David R. Rom ero Youth Activity Center) and stated his belief  that
enough revenue can be g enerated through registration fees t o cover the position ex pense.  H e
reviewed registration participation numbers, waiting lists for those interested in registering for the
programs, and program benefits to community youth.  Up on inquiry, Ms. Do rr and Mr. Parish
reviewed program registration fees. Discussion included program benefits and revenue generation,
and Parks and Recreation loan repayment schedule affiliated with construction of the Romero Youth
Activity Center.  Motion to amend c arried.  Voting  “yes” – a ll members of the g overning body
present with the exception of Ms. Case voting “no”.  Upon inquiry regarding the possibility of filling
the position by former employees affected by the reduction in work force, Mr. Parish advised job
description criteria must be met with Mayor Kaysen requesting Mr. Parish communicate with the
Human Resources Director on the topic.  Comments followed on funding included in the budget for
the City’s annual membership dues to the Wy oming Association of Municipali ties (WAM) and
membership services provided.  Ms. Ash moved to strike budget funding for the dues in the amount
of $40,485.00, sec onded by  Dr. Rinne.  Discussion followed a nd included support of WAM
membership, City’s representation on the WAM Board, and WAM’s budgetary assistance to its
membership by reducing next fiscal year’s dues amount by 10%.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Ms.
Ash and Dr. Rinne.  Voting “no” – Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker, Mr.
Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body present with the exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”. (#3892)
“An Ordinance app roving and establishing revised water rates, as re commended by the
Board of Public Utilities to be effective January 1, 2011.”  Eric Russell questioned the relationship
of proposed fee increases for this ordinance (and following affiliated ordinances on the agenda) with
the City’s deferred $1,000,000.00 bond payment to BOPU.  Randy Hayes, BOPU, reviewed BOPU’s
budget preparation time frame and advised the budget as it stands has no relationship to the million
dollar deferred payment.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Spiker.  Discussion included a request to BOPU to review current watering restrictions for possible
modification, opposition to proposed rate increases, and determination/justification for proposed fee
increases.  Upon inquiry, Tim Wilson, BOPU Director, provided information on proposed increases
based on a nalysis and projec tions, degree of inflation, and a dditional factors.  Motion ca rried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Case and Mr.
Valdez voting “no”. (#3893)
“An Ordinance approving and establishing revised sewer rates, as recommended by the
Board of Public Utilities to be effective January 1, 2011.” Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and
final re ading, seconde d by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” – a ll members of  the
governing body present with the exception of Ms. Case and Mr. Valdez voting “no”. (#3894)
“An Ordinance approving and establishing revised tap fees, system development fees, pump
station fees and other  related fees recommended by the B oard of Public Utili ties to be eff ective
January 1,  20 11.” Mr . B rown mov ed to approve on thi rd a nd fi nal r eading, s econded b y Ms.
Broyles. Comment of concern was expressed regarding proposed increases and potential hardship
on community construction and busine sses.  Motion carr ied.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body present with the exception of M s. Case, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Va ldez voting “no”.
(#3895)
“An Ordinance approving and establishing revised administrative fees, service charges and
penalties as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities to be effective January 1, 2011.” Eric
Russell raised concerns with increases for administrators and raising fees that citizens can’t afford.
Randy Hayes, BOPU Administration Manager, explained administrative fees include such items as
late charges on past due accounts, NSF (non-sufficient funds) fees and other misc. fees affiliated
with cost of services provided, and stated the increase is not related to wages.  Mr. Brown moved
to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Ms. Broy les. Comment followed on the fe e
amount pertaining to production of electronic maps with Tim Wilson, BOPU Director, advising the
cost for some of the electronic areas may be set by the intra-governmental GIS cooperative and that
he would check on this for fee consistency.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles
and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” – Ms. Ash, Ms. Case, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr.
Valdez.
“An Ordinance approving and establishing revised septic waste dump rates and  commercial
waste rates recommended by the Board of Public Utilities to be e ffective January 1, 2011.” Mr.
Brown moved to appr ove on third and f inal reading, seconded by Mr. Pierson. Motion car ried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Case and Mr.
Valdez voting “no”. (#3896)
“An Ordinance a mending Ordinanc e No. 3880 de fining the Ter ms and Conditions  of
employment for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne.” Mr. Brown moved to approve
on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body present. 
 
“An Or dinance amending  Ordinance No. 3881 defining the Te rms and Conditions of
employment for uniformed employees of the Cheyenne Police Department.” Mr. Brown moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Pierson. Dr. Rinne moved to a mend by striking the
word leadership following the words “city council” in Section 8 regarding furlough days, seconded
by Ms. Ash. It was noted if the amendment is approved, the section would then read as follows: The
mayor, after consulting with city council, shall have discre tionary authority to declare furlo ugh
days, if necessary, due to budget constraints.  Discussion included comments in support and non-
support of the a mendment, past discussions o n purpose of the  current wording, communication
concerns, Council members’ opportunity to provide input to the mayor, and whether “consulting”
means a meeting would be required.  It was noted that similar wording was included in the previous
ordinance a pproved o n 2  re ading re lative to non- uniformed e mployees.  Up on inq uiry, Ci tynd
Attorney Dan White clarified if the amendment was approved no formal meeting may be required,
and that the mayor would have the duty to consult with City Council members but that the ultimate
decision would be the may or’s.  Motion to amend ca rried.  V oting “yes” – a ll members of the
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Br own, Mr. Pierson and Mayor Kaysen voting
“no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
“An Ordinance amending the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation fee schedule.” Eric Russell read
a statement expressing c oncerns w ith the proposed increases, the r ecycling program, affiliated
sanitation costs, and fiscal responsibility, and Ed Melko commented on concerns with fees, costs
of hauling waste to A ult, CO, life of current landfill and development status of a new landfill,
current economic situation and recycling limitation on accepted materials.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Pierson. Mr. Brown moved to amend to reduce the fee
for 95 gal. residential recycling containers to $5.00 and 60 gal. residential recycling containers to
$3.00, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Comment followed on the purpose of the amendment.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Discussion included
Sanitation r evenue o ffsetting e xpenses f or c ity d epartments; f actors in volving p otential
establishment of a sanitation enterprise fund; recycling program; hauling waste to Ault in an effort
to extend the life of the landfill; Sanitation fee revenues, and fiscal responsibility.  Upon inquiry,
Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, clarified next fiscal year’s budget for Sanitation fees was increased by
1% overall.  Mr. Spiker moved to amend by reducing the proposed 3.4% increase to 1%, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Dorr clarified any excess funds received over the budgeted 1%
increase could go into the general fund reserves or be reappropriated.  She advised in the past year,
revenues did not come in as anticipated, resulting in a reappropriation.  Upon inquiry, Jim Elias,
Public Works Director, explained the process utilized for reviewing fee structures with Consumer
Price Index numbers, and clarified those areas within the proposed schedule that were unrelated to
the 3.4% increase, specifically referencing Manual Collection Waste, Yard Waste Collection (95
gal. container) and Transfer Station fees.  Ms. Dorr advised during the budget preparation process
not all individual fee a reas were increased across the board.  Mr. Elias noted the propose d 3.4%
increase for certain areas was based on the Consumer Price Index as required by the cu rrent
ordinance.  Mr. Spiker r evised his motion to amend to refle ct the areas previously noted by Mr.
Elias, as being unrelated to the proposed 3.4% increase, would remain unchanged as presented and
not be included in the proposed amendme nt.  Mr. Valdez, as sec ond to the motion to amend,
concurred with the revision.  Motion to amend as re vised failed.  V oting “yes” – Ms. Ash, Mr.
Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Voting “no” – Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne
and Mayor Kaysen.  Further discussion included: Suggestion of reducing recycling pickup times;
streamlining services fo r efficiency; minimum sanitation servicing  schedule; sanitation staffing
level, and c ommunity concerns with reducing the number of  minimum service pickups.  Upon
inquiry, Dennis Pino, Solid Waste Director, provided information on staffing levels, cross-training
efforts, and utilization of temporary help.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voti ng “yes” – all
members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Ash, Ms. Case, Mr. Spiker and
Mr. Valdez voting “no”. 
“An Ordinance vacating the 15-foot alley within Civitan Park, two parcels of Civitan Park
and the 60-foot right-of-way of Civitan Place between Cribbon and Dey Avenues, Arp Addition,
Fifth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Cribbon and Dey Avenues, south of W. Leisher
Road).”  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Ms. Broyles. Ms. Ash decla red a conflict of inter est (family affiliated ownership of
property in the adjacent vicinity) and vacated Council Chambers.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” –
all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the
vote, Ms. Ash returned to Council Chambers.
“A Resolution supporting the  City  of Chey enne’s application for  Transpor tation
Enhancement A ctivities -  loc al ( TEAL) f unds for l andscaping a nd e nhancements on  the  Ea st
Pershing Blvd. Reconstruction Project and authorizing the Mayor to sign a n agreement with the
State if awarded.” Mr. Brown moved to adopt, sec onded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry, Nathan
Beauheim, Engineering Services Director, advised the grant request is affiliated with the roundabout
and provided information available on possible landscaping and enhancements that may be proposed
(ex: stamped decorative concrete), and Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager, stated the grant request
amount is $500,000.00 with an 80/20 match, and that general landscaping items could include such
things as shrubs and trees.  In response to query concerning local providers for landscaping items,
Mr. Beauheim i ndicated a bid would be issued and if Federal funds were involved an in-state
preference could not be utilized.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body
present. (#5212)
“A Resolution determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyoming Statute
§15-1-402 exist for the property described as a parcel of land being situated in a portion of Tracts
7 and 10, Dell Range Addition 2  Filing; Lot 3 Smithson View, together with a portion of Carland
Drive, Thomas Road, and College Drive, Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located north of
and adjacent to Carla Drive, between Ridge Road and College Drive.”  Ms. Ash moved to adopt,
seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” – a ll members of the governing body
present. (#5213)
“A Resolution increasing the level of funding placed into the Solid Waste Management
Fund for the specific purpose of providing funding to pay for solid waste tipping fees, increased
recycling costs, and paying for the lease purchase of solid waste equipment.”  Mr. Brown moved
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body present. (#5214)
[CA] “A Resolution re -appropriating the fiscal year 2010 budget of the City of C heyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. 16-4-112 & 16- 4-113” -- referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] “A R esolution aut horizing the  fi ling of  a n a pplication w ith the  F ederal T ransit
Administration, an operating administration of the United States Department of Transportation,
for Federal Transportation Assistance authorized by Title 49, United States Code, Section 5307” --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Program Grant, for the purpose of
assisting in providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit
Program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. § 5311” -- re ferred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Brown).
[CA] “A Resolution implementing the provisions of Section 414(h)(2) of the Internal Revenue
Code, reg arding employ er pa yment of employ ee r etirement contribution s to the Wy oming
Retirement System - sworn of ficers of the F ire Department” -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] “A Resolution implementing the provisions of Section 414(h)(2) of the Internal Revenue
Code, reg arding employ er pa yment of employ ee r etirement contributions to the Wy oming
Retirement System - non uniformed and sworn officers of the Police Department” -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] “A Resolution Approving Temporary Water Service, by User’s Agreement, Stonehouse
Incorporated” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Spiker).
[CA] “A Resolution Approving Water/Sanitary Sewer Service, by User’s Agreement, Mary A.
Symons.” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Spiker).
[CA] “A Resolution acknowledging receipt of and approving the 'Missile Drive Corridor Plan'
prepared by Ayres Associates for the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization” -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsors - Ms. Ash, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne).
[CA] “A Resolution acknowledging receipt of and approving the 'Cheyenne Wayfinding Plan
Phase II' prepared by Quinby Clune Design and Nolte Associates for the Cheyenne Metropolitan
Planning Organization” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsors - Ms. Ash, Mr. Collins,
Dr. Rinne).
[CA] Amendments to Agreements for Human Services in the community between the City of
Cheyenne and American Red Cross; Boys and Girls Club of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Inc.; CASA
of Laramie County; Cheyenne Health and Wellness Center (Dental Access and Unified Human
Service Eligibility); CIHN (Cheyenne Interfaith Hospitality Network); Climb Wyoming; Comea,
Inc. (Basic Emergency Shelter Services and Transitional Living); Consumer Credit Counseling
Services; L aramie County  Communi ty Partnersh ip (Connections Corner  and Chey enne A rea
Centralized Pharmacy); Meals on Wheels of Cheyenne, Inc.; Needs, Inc.; Peak Wellness Center,
Inc.; Retired a nd Senior Volunteer  Prog ram; Safe  Har bor, A Children' s J ustice Center ;
Safehouse/Sexual Assault Services, Inc.; Southeast Wyoming Foster Grandparent P rogram
(Helping Community and Helping Youth); Special Friends of Cheyenne; Stride Learning Center,
and Wyoming Senior Citizens, Inc.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5436-#5458)
[CA] Contract for auditing services between the City of Cheyenne and McGee, Hearne & Paiz,
LLP for the fisca l years ending June 30, 2010, 2011, and 2012. Motion (pe r Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5560)
[CA] Grant Ag reement betwee n the Wy oming B usiness Council, Business and I ndustry
Division, State Energy Office and City of Cheyenne for American Rescue and Recovery Energy
Efficiency an d Conservation B lock Grant Retrofit 2.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5561)
[CA]  Agreement between the Ci ty of Cheyenne and Bill G. Hibbler for Professional Legal
Services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department and the Cheyenne
Regional Airport Board for law enforcement services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School District No. 1 for
school resource officers for the 2010- 2011 school year -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]  Juvenile Housing Agre ement between the C ity of Chey enne and Southeast Wyoming
Juvenile Services, LLC -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and
Laramie County, Wyoming, for the housing of city prisoners at the Laramie County Detention
Facility -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA]  Agreement for the Human Services in the Community between the City of Cheyenne and
(1) Cheyenne Housing Authority, (2) Peak Wellness Center, I nc., Alcohol Receiving Center --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA]  Agreement betwee n the C ity of Cheyenne and Stride Learning Center to provide
cooperative transit services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification # 5 to Contract #4817 between the City of Cheyenne and H.W.
Lochner, Inc. for additional services to prepare and submit Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) to
FEMA f or C row Creek Fl ood C ontrol I mprovements P roject (1 % S ales T ax-Drainage
Maintenance) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to C ontract #5045 betwee n the City  of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for preparation and submission of an additional LOMR to FEMA for the Lower Dry
Creek Reach between US 30 and the UPRR crossing as part of the Dry Creek - Sheridan Reach
Flood Control Improvements Project (2007-2010 1% Sales and Use Tax) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract #            between JTL Group dba Knife River for
the FY2010 City Overlay Project to leave  existing traffic calming islands in place , delete new
traffic safety islands from contract, place storm sewer in new alignment adding one 5 ft diameter
storm sewer manhole to avoid conflicts with existing islands (2007-2010 1% Sales and Use Tax) --
referred to Finance Committee.
Consideration of B id #M-15-10 for  a contr act between the City of Cheyenne and JTL
Group, Inc., d/b/a Knife  River of Chey enne, WY, for  the FY  2010 City  Overlay project.  J oe
Stephenson, Knife River, spoke in support of providing services under the contract regardless of
the Vandehei calming islands portion of the pr oject.  Nathan B eauheim, Engineering Services
Director, explained agenda item #32(c) (contract modification referred to Finance Committee) is
a companion to this  item and should City  Council awar d the contract and w ish to leave the
calming islands in place, the contract modification would provide the mechanism to do so.  Mr.
Brown reported there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown
moved to accept the bid in an amount not to exceed $1,062,173.00,  seconded by Mr. Pierson.
Discussion included support of the c ontract per the bid doc ument; removal of c urrent calming
islands; project timing; use of  funds for othe r stree t projects; other pr ojects included in t he
bid/contract; WYDOT I–25 interchange project time frame, and delaying of other projects.  Upon
inquiry, Mr. Beauheim provided information on median heights, and Doug Vetter, City Engineer,
provided information on estimated costs affiliated with the calming islands and the intent to
improve traffic hazards and reduce maintenance costs. Further comments on the Vandehei portion
of the project included: Other areas in the City requiring street work (i.e. Snyder Ave.); delaying
the work to a  future da te; addressing drainage proble ms, and WYDOT’s pr oject in the ar ea.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of
Ms. Ash and Mr. Spiker voting “no”. (#5562)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-22-10 for  a contr act between the City  of Chey enne and JTL
Group, Inc., d/b/a Knife River of Cheyenne, WY, for the 2009 Cheyenne Transit Program Bus
Stop Upgrades project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5563) 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid # R-13-10, for furnishing seven (7) new 2010 Ford Crown Victoria
vehicles with police package from Spradley Barr Motors of Cheyenne, WY, for the City Police
Dept. -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-16-10 f or fur nishing e ight ( 8) portable  multi-paramete r
defibrillators from Physio-Control, Inc. of Redmond, WA for the City  of Chey enne Fire and
Rescue  Department -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Announcement was made  of the re -appointments of J o Butler , Robert Kana rd, B ebe
Molway, Carol Matteson Pascal, Terry Livingston, Abby Yenco, Jay Guerin, Dick Krahenbuhl,
Bradley Ober g, Doyle Tra vis, Tom DeHoff , Nanc y Olson and Rick Parish to the Gre enway
Advisory Committee to be confirmed June 28, 2010. 
Announcement was made of the appointment of Laura Page to the Greenway Advisory
Committee to be confirmed June 28, 2010. 
Announcement was made of a Public Meeting to be held June 28, 2010, at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambe rs, 2101 O'Neil, for the purpose of receiving public co mment o n the
submission of a 5307 Federal Grant to fund transportation services by Cheyenne Transit for FY
2011. 
Under other City  business, Frank Cole, deve loper, commented on pre vious discussion
involving the approval of Vouchers with reference to the towing of vehicles affiliated with street
work projects and past practice of street signage serving as notification to homeowners; stated his
belief that any amendments to the budget ordinance should be by ordinance and not resolution;
expressed concern with the Consent Agenda process, and stated, relative to agenda item discussion
involving the Overlay Project contract awarded to Knife River, that years ago Council reviewed
bid items prior to advertising  for bids. Also under  other business, in re sponse to Mr. Cole’s
previous comments re lative to the Consent Agenda process, it was note d that members of  the
public can request an item be removed from the Consent Agenda by contacting a Council member.
Also under other business, concern was expressed regarding the complaint driven process
for enforcement of zoning sign violations, and sprinklers operating at Sun Valley park during rain
and the ability to monitor operational time frames.
It was announced the public ribbon cutting for the grand opening of the David R. Romero
Park would be held Thursday, June 17 at 1:30 p.m.  Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director,
provided brief information on the ribbon cutting pr ogram and participants with Mayor Kaysen
noting the park is still in its first phase of development. 
There being no further  business to come bef ore the governing body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:50 p.m. 
 
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 24, 2010