MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-06-28 | CLIP_ID: 160 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 160

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
June 28, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil Chambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr.
Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Recognition of 2010 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Innovation Awards to the City
of Cheyenne.  Mayor Kaysen advised the City was recognized with the following innovation awards
recently at the Wyoming Association of Municipalities summer convention:  Fire and Rescue Dept.,
Emergency Services Rehabilitation Unit; Sanitation Zonar GPS System; Parks and Recreation Dept.,
David R. Romero Youth Ac tivity and Community  Center, a nd Metropolitan Tra nsportation
Organization, Transportation Safety Implementation Effort and Wayfinding Plan.  Mayor Kaysen
recognized individual st aff members whose  depar tments rece ived awa rds, and e xpressed
appreciation to all staff who assisted with the program areas that had been recognized by WAM.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Ms. Case, and pursuant to support received by
Ms. Broyles and Mr. Pierson, agenda items #23 and #24  were removed from the Consent Agenda.
Comment on removal of agenda item #25 followed with Mayor Kaysen advising the item was not
eligible to be removed from the Consent Agenda, pursuant to approved procedures by Council, as
it was a referral to committee.  During further comment, Mr. Brown raised a point of order stating
the Mayor had already ruled that the item c ould not be removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr.
Collins moved to approve  remaining Consent A genda items, seconde d by Mr. B rown. Motion
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Case voting
“no”.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on June 14, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Gove rning Body on June 21, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a  voucher payable to
Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, a nd vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Pierson moved to a pprove
payment of vouchers a s p resented, se conded b y Mr . V aldez. U pon in quiry, D oug Vetter, City
Engineer, provided information concerning a voucher payable to AVI Engineering for professional
services for Henderson Basin Project, stating services being provided is follow-up to the Henderson
project which required re-mapping of area flood improvements.  Upon inquiry involving a voucher
payable to the Laramie County Treasurer for property tax due on the former Mary’s Bake Shoppe
site, now owned by the City, Dan White, City Attorney, advised he would research the C ity’s
exempt st atus requir ements re lative to proper ty tax assessments.  Ci ty Trea surer Ba rb Dorr
indicated, due to timeliness involved with the payment, a manual check had been issued.  Motion
carried.  Vo ting “ yes” – a ll m embers of  the  g overning body present in Co uncil Ch ambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a Public Meeting for the purpose of receiving public comments for
the submission of a 5307 Federal Grant to fund transportation services by Cheyenne Transit for
FY2011.   Joe Dougherty, Cheyenne Transit Director, advised the grant application is a request for
operating and capitol assistance to help fund the Transit program; provided a hand-out (on file with
City Clerk’s office) referencing the budget for the grant, noting the funding level available is less
than last year, and provided program operational information.  There being no further comments or
input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
“An Or dinance amen ding Ordinanc e No. 3880 de fining the terms and c onditions of
employment for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne.” Reporting for Fi nance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Dr.
Rinne moved to amend Section 7, referencing furlough days, by deleting the wor d leadership
following the words “city council,” seconded by Ms. Ash. Comments followed on the purpose of
the amendment, which would provide that the Mayor consult with all City Council members if
furlough days are proposed.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mr. B rown and Mr. Pierson voting “ no”.  Main motion as amende d
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#3897)
“An Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 3881 defining the terms and conditions of
employment for uniformed employees of the Cheyenne Police Department.”  Mr. Brown moved to
approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez. It was clarified the word leadership
had been previously deleted from the section involving furlough days pursuant to an amendment
approved at the June 14  meeting.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governingth
body. (#3898)
“An Ordinance amending the City  of Chey enne’s Sanitation fee sc hedule.” M r. Brown
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Brown moved to amend
by substitut e, noting the amendme nt would reduc e the r ate increase to 1% with the following
exceptions: leaving the recycle rates as approved through the previous substitute, and leaving the
following rates as originally proposed: Residential Manual Collection fee, $20.00; Transfer Station
Dumping Residential Fee, $10.00; Yard Waste Collection Monthly Fee 95 Gallon, $6.00 and Yard
Waste Collection Monthly Fee for Residential and Commercial 1.5 CY fee, $15.00, seconded by Dr.
Rinne.  Comments follow ed on increasing the rates pursuant to the Consumer Price  Index to be
consistent with other sanitation fe e increases of 3.4%, a pproval of ba lanced budget with a 1%
increase, monthly difference between a 3.4% increase ($.54) and 1% increase ($.16), effect of rate
increases on low income residents, incremental and more frequent increases vs. larger non-frequent
increases, and estimated FY2011 budget revenues/expenditures.  Up on inquiry, Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, advised unknown e xpenses during a fiscal year could af fect budget figures, citing an
example involving a previous budget, following approval, involving increases in fuel costs for Fleet
Maintenance.  During discussion, City Clerk Carol Intlekofer reviewed the motions on the floor.
Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mr. Brown and Mr. Pierson voting “no.”  Ma in motion as amended by substitute
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Brown, Ms.
Case and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”. (#3899)
“An Ordinance vacating the 15-foot alley within Civitan Park, two parcels of Civitan Park
and the 60-foot right-of-way of Civitan Place between Cribbon and Dey Avenues, Arp Addition,
Fifth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Cribbon and Dey Avenues, south of W. Leisher
Road).”  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve on third and final
reading, se conded by  Ms. Broy les.  Ms. Ash decla red a  conflict of interes t (family aff iliated
ownership of property in the adjacent vicinity), and vacated Council Chambers.  Motion car ried.
Voting “ yes” – a ll members of the g overning body present in Council C hambers.  Following
announcement of the vote, Ms. Ash returned to Council Chambers. (#3900)
“An Ordinance repealing Chapter 5.72, Public Transport, in its entirety and re -creating
Chapter 5.72, Public Transportation, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne
City Code” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
“An Or dinance annexing to the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming, a  parcel of l and being
situated in a portion of tra cts 7 and 10 , Dell Range Addition, 2  Filing; Lot 3 Smithson View,nd
together w ith a  p ortion of C arla D rive, T homas R oad a nd C ollege D rive, L aramie C ounty,
Wyoming (generally located nor th of and a djacent to Carla Drive , between Ridge Road and
College Drive)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution re- appropriating the  fiscal y ear 2010 budg et o f the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S. 16-4-112 & 16-4-113”.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5215)
“A R esolution a uthorizing the filing of  a n a pplication w ith the  F ederal T ransit
Administration, an operating administration of the United States Department of Transportation,
for Federal Transportation Assistance authorized by Title 49, United States Code, Section 5307”.
Mr. B rown mov ed to  a dopt, se conded by Mr. Collins.  M otion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” – a ll
members of the governing body.  (#5216)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a Wy oming Rural Public Transportation Program Grant, for the purpose of
assisting in providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit
Program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. § 5311.”  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5217)
[CA] “A Resolution implementing the provisions of Section 414(h)(2) of the Internal Revenue
Code, reg arding employ er pa yment of employ ee retireme nt contributions to the W yoming
Retirement System for sworn officers of the F ire Department.” Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried.  (#5218)
[CA] “A Resolution implementing the provisions of Section 414(h)(2) of the Internal Revenue
Code, reg arding employ er pa yment of employ ee r etirement contributions to the W yoming
Retirement System for non-uniformed and sworn officers of the Police Department.” Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5219)
[CA] “A Resolution Approving Temporary Water Service, by User’s Agreement, Stonehouse
Incorporated.” Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5220)
[CA] “A Resolution Approving Water/Sanitary Sewer Service, by User’s Agreement, Mary A.
Symons.” Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5221)
“A Resolution acknowledging receipt of and approving the 'Missile Drive Corridor Plan'
prepared by Ayres Associates for the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization.”  Mr. Collins
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon inquiry, Sreyoshi Chakraborty, MPO, provided
information on project costs, including the e stimated cost ($5.2 million) to im plement the plan
which w ill i nclude G reenway e xtension a nd a menities, a nd f unding s ources, a dvising tha t
implementation funding has not yet been identified. Upon further inquiry, Tom Mason, MPO
Director, advised it will be up to the governing body to determine when to move forward with the
engineering design stage and construction, contingent upon funding, and noted ther e are many
elements affiliated with the projec t.  He discussed pote ntial funding  source s and financ ial
involvement by WYDOT in conjunction with prepa ration of the plan.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#5222)
“A Resolution acknowledging receipt of and approving the 'Cheyenne Wayfinding Plan
Phase II' prepared by Quinby Clune Design and Nolte Associates for the Cheyenne Metropolitan
Planning Organization.” Paula Qualls spoke in support of the plan generally, expressing concern
with the proposed signage design, and stated she would like to see a similar Wayfinding plan for
the South Greeley highway area. Mr. Collins moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Ash. Upon inquiry,
MPO Directo r Tom Mason and Srey oshi Chakraborty , MPO, reviewe d contra ctors (a nd
subcontractors) involved with plan preparation and reviewed funding received toward the plan
cost.  Ms. Chakraborty reported the cost to implement the plan would be approximately $520,000
and that no funding source has been identified at this time but that grant opportunities were being
researched. Ms. Chakraborty explained this is a “stand alone” plan relative to the PlanCheyenne
document, and reviewed sign design limitations pursuant to the MUTC D (Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices).  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
(#5223)
[CA] “A Resolution supporting the  continuation o f the Optional One Per cent Sales Ta x for
Calendar Years 2011 through 2014 and pledging that all revenues from this tax will be used for
projects   described in this resolution.” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown,
Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mayor Kaysen).
 
[CA] County Preliminary Plat for Deerhaven Subdivision, a replat of Tract 6 and a portion of
Tract 7, Allison Tracts; Tract 2, Hermann Meadows Subdivision; Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 1,
Block 1, L ey Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between E. Fox Farm and E.
Jefferson Roads, east of S. Greeley Highway) – referred to Public Services Committee (due to
postponement from May 24, 2010).
[CA]  Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Bill G. Hibbler for Professional Legal
Services. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5564)
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department and the Cheyenne
Regional Airport B oard for law enforcement services. Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5565)
Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School District No. 1 for
school resource officers for the 2010-2011 school year.  Mr.  Brown moved to approve, seconded
by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone to July 26, 2010, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  It was
noted the reason for postponement is to allow for continuing discussion with the school district.
Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
[CA]  Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Southeast Wyoming
Juvenile Services, LLC. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5566)
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and
Laramie County, Wyoming, for the housing of city prisoners at the Laramie County Detention
Facility. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5567) 
[CA]  Agreement for the Human Services in the Community between the City of Cheyenne and
(1) Cheyenne Housing Authority, (2) Pea k Wellness Center, I nc., Alcohol Rec eiving Center.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5568/5569) 
[CA]  Agreement betwee n the City of Cheyenne and Stride Learning Center to provide
cooperative transit services. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5570)
[CA]  Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Contract between the State of Wyoming,  Department
of Family Services, Division of Juvenile Services and the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA]  Ex tension of Contract #5400 be tween the City of Chey enne, T ransit Division, and
NextMedia Outdoor, Inc. for the purchase of advertising space on Cheyenne Transit Buses --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Diversion and Transitional Services contract between State of Wyoming, Department of
Family Services, Division of Juvenile Services and the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification #5 to Contract #4817 between the City of Cheyenne and H.W.
Lochner, Inc. for additional services to prepare and submit Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) to
FEMA f or C row Creek Fl ood C ontrol I mprovements P roject (1 % S ales T ax-Drainage
Maintenance). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $14,266.00).  (#4817)
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to C ontract #5045 between the City  of Chey enne and Ayres
Associates for preparation and submission of an additional LOMR to FEMA for the Lower Dry
Creek Reach between US 30 and the UPRR crossing as part of the Dry Creek - Sheridan Reach
Flood Control Improvements Project (2007-2010 1% Sales and Use Tax. Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $58,920.00).  (#5045)
Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract #5562 between JTL Group dba Knife River for
the FY2010 City Overlay Project to leave  existing traffic calming islands in place, de lete new
traffic safety islands from contract, place storm sewer in new alignment adding one 5 ft diameter
storm sewer manhole to avoid conflicts with existing islands (2007-2010 1% Sales and Use Tax).
Mr. Brown reported there was no recommendation on the item from F inance Committee.  Mr.
Collins moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Di scussion included the following topics:
Accident traffic st udy relative to calming  island are as on Va ndehei; cost to re move exist ing
islands; comments and input received from the public by Council members regarding the islands;
traffic maneuvering and pedestrian safety concerns, and law enforcement of speed limits in lieu
of calming islands.  Upon in quiry, Tom Mason, MPO Direc tor, reviewed traffic data history
involving speeds in the area, and noted the islands were originally installed at the request of the
neighborhood.  Mr. Mason also reviewed the use of center medians instead of calming islands to
keep speeds down, and explained the purpose and general provisions of the neighborhood traffic
management program.  Discussion continued and included: Truck traffic off I-25 as a reason for
the original installation of calming  is lands on Va ndehei, public mee tings held as part of  the
planning process involving the decision to implement the calming islands, and other needed street
repair projects and prioritization of same. Upon inquiry whether a modification could be made to
another area of the original contract, unrelated to the calming islands modification item on the
agenda, City Attorney Dan White advised this would require preparation of a separate contract
modification.  Continuing discussion followed.  Pursuant to questions and comments raised during
discussion, Mayor Kaysen provided information on the proposed remedy to address any increase
in traffic speeds if the current islands are removed (i.e. median re-design pursuant to the original
contract without the modification), clarified his [election] campaign promise was only to review
the calming island issue, and a dvised of input he ha d received from the public conce rning the
islands.  Motion failed.  Voting “ yes” – Ms. Ash, Ms. B royles, Mr. Collins and Mr. Spiker.
Voting “no” – Mr. Brown, Ms. Case, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.
[CA]  Consideration of Bid # R-13-10, for furnishing seven (7) new 2010 Ford Crown Victoria
vehicles with police package from Spradley Barr Motors of Cheyenne, WY, for the City Police
Dept. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $159,686.80).
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-16-10 for f urnishing e ight ( 8) portable  multi-paramete r
defibrillators from Physio-Control, Inc. of Redmond, WA for the City  of Chey enne Fire and
Rescue  Department. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $223,194.95).
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #R-14-10 for furnishing one new Wheel Excavator for the City of
Cheyenne Sanitation/Landfill Department. (Solid Waste Management Fund) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-15-10 for furnishing one new  Rubber Tire Tool Carrier Loader
for the City of Cheyenne Sanitation/Landfill Department -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #R-17-10 for furnishing & installing police car equipment in 6 new
police cars from Wireless Advanced of Evans, CO for the City Police Department. (2007-2010
1% Sales and Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-23- 10 for a  contract between the City  of Chey enne and JTL
Group Inc. d/b/a Knife River of Cheyenne, WY, for the Dell Range resurfacing project -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
Re-appointments of Jo Butler, Robert Kanard, Bebe Molway, Carol Matteson Pascal, Terry
Livingston, Abby Yenc o, J ay Guer in, Dick Kra henbuhl, B radley Ober g, Doyle Travis, Tom
DeHoff, Nancy Olson and Rick Parish to the Greenway Advisory Committee.  Mr. Pierson moved
to approv e, seconded by  Mr. Collins.  M otion carr ied.  Voting  “y es” – a ll members of the
governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Appointment of Laura Page to the Greenway Advisory Committee.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
[CA] Annual Report to the City  of Chey enne r egarding ca pital improvements made a t the
Airport Golf Course as required by Lease Agreement -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made that due to the 4th of July holiday on Monday, July 5, 2010, the
following meetings have been rescheduled for Tuesday, July 6, 2010: Finance Committee at 11:00
a.m., Ro om 1 22;  r egular V ouchers meeting of  the  Go verning B ody a t N oon, City  Cou ncil
Chambers, and Public Services Committee at 12:15 p.m., Room 122, Municipal Building, 2101
O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, WY.
Announcement was made of a Calcutta to be held Saturday, July 31, 2010 beginning at
5:30 p.m. at the VIP/Sponsor Tent located in Frontier Park in conjunction with the 2010 Cheyenne
Frontier Days Rodeo. Proceeds to benefit Cheyenne area charities.
Announcement was made of a Calcutta to be held Friday, August 27, 2010 beginning at
5:30 p.m. at the Old West Museum, 4610 Carey Avenue, in conjunction with Laramie County
Republican Party Fall fundraiser. Proceeds to benefit Laramie County Republican Party.
Under other business:
Lucinda Schmid expressed concerns with proposed expansion plans by Cheyenne Regional
Medical Center into the Lakeview and Rainsford Historic Districts and submitted a petition (on
file with City  Clerk’s off ice) signed by interested individuals re questing City communication
assistance with the hospital.  Mayor Kaysen advised the City is aware of expansion plans by the
Medical Center and Doug Vetter, City Engineer, stated no formal plans have been submitted yet
to the City.  I t was noted the City process will involve the opportunity for public input.  Ms.
Schmidt expressed that she feels there has been a lack of communication between the hospital and
the neighborhood.  Jan Nelson-Schroll also expressed co ncerns with the expansion plans and
commented on community planning and City Council’s role, encouraging the Council to be pre-
active in promoting vital neighborhoods; light and noise pollution and preserving historic districts.
Police Chief Brian Kozak recognized the upcoming Neighborhood Night Out community
event scheduled for July 13, 2010; advised the graffitti abatement program began June 28, 2010,
and stated a drug recognition class for parents was scheduled for June 30, 2010, 6:00 p.m. at the
Cheyenne Police Department. Upon inquiry later under other business, Chief Kozak advised 36
tickets were issued last month for violation of the cell phone usage while driving ordinance.
Comment was made concerning employee diligence when mowing around signs during
maintenance operations.
City Attorney Dan White requested the governing body meet in executive session (legal
briefing) on new litigation concerning the Southwest Drive annexation, and a potential complaint
that may be filed by the City against the Laramie County Commissioners regarding a re-platting
issue.  Mr. Pierson moved to meet in executive session, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Mayor Kaysen announced members would
meet in  e xecutive se ssion in C ouncil Chambers, n ot o pen to  the  pu blic; r equested th e City
Attorney, City Clerk, and other staff as requested by the City Attorney, be present at the executive
session, and stated ther e would b e no action taken by  the g overning body as a r esult of the
executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close
of the executive session.  (Clerk’s Note: Executive session convened at 8:10 p.m. following a brief
recess.)
There being no further  business to come bef ore the governing body prior to executive
session, the meeting  was officially adjourned at 8:27 p.m. following c losure of the  executive
session.
 
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 9, 2010