MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-07-12 | CLIP_ID: 162 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 162

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
July 12, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil Chambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Absent:
Ms. Ash, Mr. Collins and Mr. Pierson.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Ms. Broyles and Mr. Spiker agenda items #19(a) and (b)  were removed from the Consent Agenda.
Mr. Brown  moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Spiker. Motion
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on J une 28, 20 10.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Gover ning Body on J uly 6, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a  voucher payable to
Ameri-Tech H VAC Service s, and vac ated Council Chamber s.  Mr. Va ldez moved to approve
payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Upon inquiry, City Treasurer Barb Dorr
reviewed a voucher payable to All-Irwin Corporation ($285.13), sand for Airport Golf Course, and
explained payment of sales tax was included as other states do not have to recognize Wyoming’s
state sales tax exemption for municipalities.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. B rown
returned to Council Chambers.
“An Ordinance repealing Chapter 5.72, Pub lic Transport, in it s entirety and re -creating
Chapter 5.72, Public Transportation, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne
City Code.” Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by  Mr. Spiker.  Comments fol lowed regarding Section 5.72.010 C. which provides
authorization for the police chief to recommend denial of an application within a one year time
frame of an applicant being convicted of various offenses, and costs associated with fingerprinting
and background checks.  Upon inquiry, Lt. Mark Munari, Cheyenne Police Dept., advised research
conducted reflected the one year review time frame was comparable with what other cities have in
place, and provided information on fees assessed per state law for applicant background checks.  Mr.
Spiker moved to amend Section 5.72.030 D. to change the word “may” to “shall”, seconded by Ms.
Broyles, which would enable the section to read as follows: “The chief of police SHALL impose
a reasonable fee for costs assoc iated with any  criminal or other  background investigation of an
applicant, including the costs of fingerprinting.”  Lt. Munari advised the same language appears in
Section 5.72.050 C.  Mr. Spiker, with concurrence by Ms. Broyles as second to the motion, revised
the motion to include the same change to Section 5.72.050 C. and any other areas in the ordinance
pertaining to the same topic and fee.  Donald James Perot McNeil commented that the word “shall”
is more forc eful than “ may”.  Discussion followed on providing  discretionary authority for the
police chief through the more pe rmissible term “may ”, and c onsistency in assessing  a fe e for
fingerprinting and background checks.  Following inquiry to Mr. Spiker, as maker of the motion,
Mayor Kaysen clarified the specific ordinance sections proposed for change (i.e. striking “may” and
inserting “shall”) p ursuant t o th e mot ion to a mend were Se ction 5 .72.030 D . a nd 5. 72.050 C.
Motion to amend car ried.  Vo ting “yes” – all members of the g overning body present with the
exception of Ms. Case voting “no”.  Upon inquiry, City Attorney Dan White clarified the current
smoking in public places ordinance prohibits smoking in public transpor tation conveyances, and
advised the inclusion of wording in the ordinance pertaining to the prohibition of cell phone use
while operating a conveyance was to make it perfectly clear that drivers can not conduct business
through use of a cell phone while driving unless they are in compliance with city code.  Main motion
as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception
of Ms. Case voting “no”. 
“An Or dinance annexing to the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming, a par cel of  land being
situated in a portion of tracts 7 and 10, Dell Rang e Addition, 2  Filing; Lot 3 Smithson View,nd
together w ith a  p ortion o f C arla D rive, T homas R oad and C ollege D rive, L aramie C ounty,
Wyoming (generally located nor th of and adjacent to Carla Dr ive, between Ridge Road a nd
College Drive).” Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Brown. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body present. 
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established
and Section 17.08.040 Cheyenne City map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning
classification from P Public District to HR-2 Hig h Density-Residential Developing District for
Fincher Block, a replat of Lots 1-8, Block 193, and vacated 16-foot alley contained within said
Block 193, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Bradley and Morrie Avenues,
and E. 22nd and 23rd Streets)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne c ity map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from P-Publi c, MR-1-Me dium Res idential Established and L I-Light I ndustrial
Districts to LI-Light Industrial District for BOPU Subdivision, a replat of portions of Blocks 98, 99,
and 151; all of Blocks 149 and 150; and va cated streets and alleyways, Original City, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Snyder Avenue and W. 24th Street)”
-- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the zoning
classification from P Publ ic District to MUR Mix ed Use-With Residential Emphasis District for
Garey Addition, 2  Filing, a replat of a portion of Lot 2 and all of Lots 3 and 4, Garey Addition,nd
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to W. Fox Farm Road, West of Walterscheid
Boulevard)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
“A Resolution supporting the  continuation of the Optional One Percent Sales Tax for
Calendar Years 2011 through 2014 and pledging that all revenues from this tax will be used f or
projects describe d in this resolution.” Speaking  in su pport of the r esolution and funding  for
community Human Services agencies were: Connie Sloan-Cathcart, United Way of Laramie County;
Carol Matteson Pascal; Judith Johnston, Foster Grandparent program; Ken Burke, Laramie County
Centralized Pharmacy; Lynne Weidel, Chey enne Community Health and Wellness  Center, and
Sharon Benson, Meals on W heels.  Comments ref erenced the history of whe n Human Services
agencies were included in 5  penny sales tax funding; community partnership and goals; Humanth
Services Advisory Committee’s role; funding amount allocated to agencies; support for the joint
application and review process involving the City/County and United Way; use of funding received
to match federal and state dollars for programs, and funding continuation to assist with increased
program usage. Joe Morelli questioned use of overage monies, and prioritization of road projects,
specifically Christensen Road.  Dona ld James Perot McNeil spoke in opposition to t he 5  pennyth
sales tax ballot question in general. Karolyn Middleton questioned funding for the Christensen Road
overpass project relative to the improvement benefitting private developers, and Pacomio Sandoval
expressed concern with use, including the approval process, of overage monies.  Mr. Brown moved
to adopt, s econded by Mr. Valdez.  M r. Brown moved to amend by substitute resolution which
amends page 2, Sections #7(d) and #7(e), Street and Road Maintenance and Construction projects,
by reversing th e p rioritization o rder to  r eflect # 7(e) ( Design a nd e nvironmental c learance f or
Christensen Rd. overpass) as #4 and #7(d) (Replace culverts at 19th St. and Crow Creek and Hilltop
over Dry Creek) as #5, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Ms. Case raised a point of clarification regarding
the public comment proc ess with May or Ka ysen advising  he would di vert from the normal
procedure if the public has further questions/comments.  Discussion topics included the purpose for
the proposed change in the priority listing; anticipated revenue level, which may not be sufficient
to f und all of the priority items; Christensen Rd. overpass project, which involves desig n, not
construction, to have a  “shovel re ady” proje ct when f unding is a vailable; culve rt repla cement
project, and future fire station planned for the Christensen Rd. area and response time the overpass
would provide.  John Volk, Campstool Land Co., provided information on development of land in
the Christensen Rd. area, noting land donations for rights-of-way and infrastructure assistance that
have been provided by the company; spoke in favor of the Christiansen Rd. overpass work that will
assist with ve hicular connection to that par t of the City , and future  commercial recruiting and
development in the ar ea, a nd commented on the importa nce of  desig n-ready projec ts, lim ited
funding sources available, growth in the eastern part of the community and economic development.
Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemecek, Asst. Public Works Director, explained the optional one percent sales
tax revenue collection process and time frame, and stated the amount estimated to be collected for
the next 4 year term is $40,000,000.  She further explained the definition of overage monies (funds
collected that exceed the estimated amount), noting the resolution specifies that 80% of any overage
funds is to be utilized for street and road maintenance and construction projects as proposed in the
resolution, and provided information on projects that will not be funded unless overage funds are
received.  Conce rn with public input and timing for  input was expressed by Mr. Morelli, and
concerns with funding the Christensen Rd. overpass project were conveyed by Mr. Morelli and Mr.
McNeil.  Ms. Pascal questioned the percentage distribution for use of overage monies, if received.
Ms. Nemecek explained the public meeting and governing body approval process involving use of
overage funds.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body present.  Mr. Spiker moved to amend the  secon d “Be It Further Resolved” paragraph as
follows: “Excess monies shall be distributed as follows: 80% shall be allocated to Street and Road
Maintenance and Construction projects listed on page 2 of this resolution; 10% shall be distributed
to Human Services Agencies in accordance with recommendations made by the Human Services
Advisory Council and approved by the governing body; and the remaining 10% of excess monies
shall be spent for such purposes, as may be approved by the governing body following a public
hearing,” seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. McNeil commented in opposition of the sales tax ballot
question.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Burke provided information on the ty pe of medications distributed
through the Laramie County Centralized Pharmacy program, and Ms. Johnston clarified volunteers,
who must meet Federal guidelines, for the Foster Grandparent program receive a Federal stipend
amount for personal use.  Discussion on the proposed amendment involved comment that Human
Services agencies will not benefit from the amendment unless overage monies are received, history
of 1% sa les tax funding for  Human Servic es agencies since 1986, a nd suggestion that proposed
funding for Street and Road Maintenance and Construction be reduced by $400,000 and inserted in
the Human Ser vices agencies line item.  Mr. Spi ker withdrew his motion to amend. Dr. Rinne
moved to amend to redistribute $400,000 from the propose d Street and Road Ma intenance and
Construction line item and to the line item for Human Service agencies, and in the second “Be It
Further Resolved”  para graph to chang e 80% of  excess monies allocate d to Street and Road
Maintenance and Construction to 90%, leaving the remaining10% of excess monies to be spent for
such purposes as may be approved by the governing body following a public hearing, seconded by
Mr. Spiker.  Ms. Sloan-Cathca rt spoke in favor of the motion to amend, a nd provided additional
information on the stipend received by volunteers involved with certain programs.  Upon inquiry
by Mayor Kaysen, Ms. Br oyles, as sec ond to the motion to amend as pre viously made by  Mr.
Spiker, conc urred with Mr. Spiker’s re quest to withd raw the motion.  Ms. Case ra ised a
parliamentary procedural question involving the proper process to be followed under Robert’s Rules
of Order (RROO) r elative to wit hdrawing a motion after it “be longs to the body .”  F ollowing
discussion on parliamentary procedures, Mayor Kaysen indicated the governing body could vote on
the previous motion offered by Mr. Spiker, and stated the wording of the motion.  Upon inquiry,
City Attorney Dan White, referenced RROO and advised before a motion has been stated by the
chair, it is the property of the mover , who ca n withdraw the  motion; i f the c hair has stated the
question then it is the property  of the Council and sho uld be voted upon prior to ac ting on a
secondary motion as offered by Dr. Rinne. He offered to research RROO further if desired.  Mayor
Kaysen recessed the me eting for 10 minutes to allow fur ther procedural review by Mr. White.
Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 7:55 p.m. and stated Mr. Spiker’s motion t o amend
remained on the floor.  Mr. Spiker requested his motion be withdrawn.  Mayor Kaysen questioned
whether there was any objection by City Council members regarding the request to withdraw the
motion and, upon no objection being voiced, stated the motion was being withdrawn.  Dr. Rinne
reiterated his previous motion to amend to redistribute $400,000 from the proposed Street and Road
Maintenance and Construction line item and move the amount to the line item for Human Services
agencies, and in the second “Be It Further Resolved” paragraph to change 80% of excess monies
allocated to Street and Road Maintenance and Construction to 90%, leaving the remaining10% of
excess monies to be spent for such purposes as may be approved by the governing body following
a public hea ring, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Discussion followed on the  intent and effect of the
motion to amend with regard to community street and road projects and amount of overage funds
that would be required to replenish the amount proposed to be removed from that line item; status
of the West Pershing, west of Snyder Avenue, project; intent of the resolution, as initially presented,
to use 80% of funding for street and road projects, and leaving monies earmarked for projects as is.
During discussion, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, and Ms. Nemecek provided information on
the estimated overage amount that would need to be collected to replenish the line item if it were
reduced, and Doug Vetter, City Engineer, advised the West Pershing project is being designed by
WYDOT with construction anticipated to begin in 2012.  Motion to amend failed. Voting “yes” –
Dr. Rinne and Mr . Spiker.  Voting  “no” – Mr . Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Va ldez and
Mayor Ka ysen.  Mr. Spiker moved to a mend the sec ond “B e I t Furthe r Resolved”  para graph
concerning excess monies t o read  “Excess monies shall be distributed a s follows: 80% shall be
allocated to  Str eet a nd Roa d M aintenance a nd Con struction p rojects l isted on page 2 of this
resolution; 10 % s hall be distributed to  Hu man Se rvices a gencies in  a ccordance wi th
recommendations made by the Human Services Advisory Council and approved by the governing
body; and the remaining 10% of excess monies shall be spent for such purposes, as may be approved
by the governing body following a public hearing,” seconded by Mr. Valdez. Mr. McNeil stated he
did not see the necessity of the amendment.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek reviewed the purpose of
removing revolv ing loan fund lang uage fr om the second “ Be I t Furthe r Resolved”  para graph,
indicating use of revolving loan funds has been approved by a separate  resolution and is coordinated
through Urban Planning, as well as removal of wording in the same paragraph relative to excess
funds that may be used to repair City facilities, explaining this is already included in individual line
items. Comments followed regarding the motion on the floor vs. removal of additional language as
discussed by Ms. Nemecek.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Mr. Brown and Ms. Case voting “no”.  U pon inquiry, Ms.
Nemecek advised an additional amendment, pursuant to her previous comments, would serve to
“clean up” language in the second “Be It Further Resolved” paragraph and that the proposed change
in wording was pursuant to recommendation by the City Attorney.  Mr. Spiker moved to amend by
striking the following sentences at the end of the second “Be It Further Resolved” paragraph: “This
portion of excess funds may also be used to c onstruct and r epair city facilities and e stablish a
revolving loan fund to assist property owners in repairing or building infrastructure (curb, gutter,
sidewalk, streets, utility connections, etc.).  Appropriation of the remaining 20% of excess interest
or overage funds requires a public meeting and approval of the governing body.”, seconded by Mr.
Valdez.  City Clerk Carol Intlekofer requested clarification of the wording of the motion with regard
to the previous amendment to the paragraph. Ms. Nemecek reviewed the intended wording for the
paragraph.  Mr. Spiker clarified intent of  his motion to a mend would result in t he f ollowing
paragraph wording in its entirety:  “Be It Further Resolved that all funds realized from the 2011-
2014 optional one percent sales tax shall be spent to complete one percent sales tax projects.  Funds
collected from the optional one percent sales tax which exceed the estimate of $40,000,000 (overage
funds) and interest earned on one percent sales tax fund deposits which exceed administrative costs
(excess interest funds) are for the purposes of this resolution collectively described as  ‘exc ess
monies’.  Excess monies shall be distributed as follows: 80% shall be allocated to Street and Road
Maintenance and Construction projects listed on page 2 of this resolution; 10% shall be distributed
to Human Services agencies in accordance with recommendations made by the Human Ser vices
Advisory Council and approved by the governing body; and the remaining 10% of excess monies
shall be spent for such purposes, as may be approved by the governing body following a pu blic
hearing.”  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
Comment was made that c ertain items under #7 on the Stree t and Road Maintena nce a nd
Construction priority listing will be unfunded if overage revenues are not received, and, if the items
are listed, the public may perceive these as projects to be completed.  Dr. Rinne moved to delete
items #7(c)(d) and (e) from the priority listing.  Motion died due to lack of a second.  Main motion
as amended three times carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#5224)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cheyenne
Business Pa rkway, First F iling Re finement A , a  r eplat o f Lots 1 0 a nd 1 1, Block 1 , Ch eyenne
Business Parkway, First Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of t he
intersection of Echosta r Drive and Campstool Road)” - - referred to Public Service s Committee
(sponsor - Ms. Ash).
 
[CA] “A Resolution acknowledging receipt of the Cheyenne Safety Assessment Report prepared
by Di ExSys LLC f or the  Che yenne Me tropolitan Pla nning Or ganization” --  re ferred to  Pub lic
Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
 
County Preliminary Plat for Deerhaven Subdivision, a replat of Tract 6 and a portion of Tract
7, Allison Tracts; Tract 2, Hermann Meadows Subdivision; Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 1, Block 1,
Ley Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between E. Fox Farm and E. Jefferson Roads,
east o f S . G reeley Hi ghway. M r. Spi ker de clared a  c onflict of  int erest a nd va cated Co uncil
Chambers.  Dr. Rinne moved to acknowledge receipt with staff recommendations #1 through 8, and
#11, 12, 15, 16 and 17, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of
the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Spiker
returned to Council Chambers.
[CA]  Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Contract between the State of Wyoming,  Department
of Family Services, Division of Juvenile Services and the City of Cheyenne.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (# 5573)
[CA] Extension o f Co ntract # 5400 b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne, T ransit D ivision, and
NextMedia Outdoor, Inc. for the purchase of advertising space on Cheyenne Transit.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5400)
[CA] Diversion and T ransitional Services contract between State of Wyoming, Department of
Family Services, Division of Juvenile Services and the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alt ernatives.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5574)
[CA] Consideration of FAA Grant #3-56-0005-47 between the City of Cheyenne, the County of
Laramie, and the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the implementation of a Safety Management
System Program (Phase ll) and for airport operations -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #5563 between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group,
Inc. dba Knife River for the construction of the 2009 Cheyenne Transit Program Bus Stop Upgrades
Project (Federal Transportation Administration/American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds) --
referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Change Or der #1 to a ccepted B id #R-7-10 betwe en the City  of Chey enne and J DM
Equipment, LLC, for an upper hopper extension to the baler conveyor located at the Transfer Station
(State Land and Investment Board funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 Consideration of Bid #R-14-10 for furnishing one new Wheel Excavator for the City  of
Cheyenne Sanitation/Landfill Department (Solid Waste Management Fund).  Mr. Brown moved to
accept the bid of Wy oming Machinery Co., Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $330,011.00,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Discussion followed regarding bids received and staff recommendation
to not accept the lowest bid; bid equipment specifications; difference in bid amounts, and equipment
capability needs.  U pon inquiry , Dennis Pino, Sol id Waste Director , p rovided information
concerning equipment spec ifications and nec essary equipment func tions needed r elative to the
intended use of  the equipm ent; fleet maintena nce’s staff r ecommendation, and rea son for the
length/reach of the boom and horsepower capability to safely move heavy materials, and reviewed
areas that we re not met by  the lowest bidder.  U pon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public W orks Director,
advised dealers having other equipment brands did not submit  bids, and explained there may be
some remediation  work that will have to be done at the landfill and the specifications regarding the
boom reach, lifting capacity and horsepower of the equipment were important areas.  Comments
followed on possible re -bidding for the e quipment. Upon inquiry , Mr. Pino provided additional
information on items that did no t meet specifications by the low bidder; re viewed how  staff,
including Fleet Maintenance, compiled equipment bid specifications, and advised if the equipment
was to be re-bid, it would put the project behind but would not affect compliance issues.  Following
further comments, motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with
the exception of Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Spiker  voting “no”.
 
Consideration of Bid #R-15-10 for furnishing one new  Rubber Tire Tool Carrier Loader for
the City of Cheyenne Sanitation/Landfill Department.  Mr. Brown moved to accept the bid from
Wyoming Machinery Co., Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $220,598.00, seconded by Mr.
Valdez.  M r. Brown moved to c all for the que stion.  Brief  review of pa rliamentary procedure
regarding the motion followed.  Motion died due to lack of a second.  Upon inquiry, Dennis Pino,
Solid Waste Director, explained the intended use for the loader, which includes removal of materials
from an olde r ar ea of  the landfill requir ing a  “bre ak-out for ce” capabi lity of seve ral thousand
pounds.  Mo tion carried.  Voting  “yes” – a ll members of the g overning body present with the
exception of Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Spiker  voting “no”.
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #R-17-10 for furnishing & installing police car equipment in 6 new
police cars from Wireless Advanced of Evans, CO for the City Police Department (2007-2010 1%
Sales and Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $45,729.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-23-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group
Inc. d/b/a Knife  River of Chey enne, WY, for  the Dell Range  resurfacing project.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $1,499,843.60). (#5575)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-24-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and  Colorado
Lining International of Parker, CO for the Third Evaporation Pond project at the landfill -- referred
to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-1-11 for furnishing 4 new Medium/Heavy Duty, Body on Chassis
Transit Buses for the City of Cheyenne Transit Department, from Intermountain Coach Leasing,
Inc., Colorado Springs, CO -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Annual Report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements made at the Airport
Golf Course as required by Lease Agreement. Motion (per Consent Agenda) to acknowledge receipt
of the report carried. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, July 26, 2010 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY to receive public comments on the
proposed trade of real properties owned by the City of Cheyenne, being two parcels of land which
comprised the former Civitan Park, the north half of the right-of-way for Civitan Place, a platted but
unbuilt street, and the right-of-way for a platted, but unbuilt, alley, all of which are located in Arp
Addition, 5  Filing, generally located south of West Leisher Road between Cribbon Avenue andth
Dey Avenue, and all of w hich were vacated by t he Governing Body of the City  of Chey enne
pursuant to Ordinance No. 3900, approved June 28, 2010, and together consisting of approximately
45,519 square feet +/- (estimated value of $80,000.00), to Laramie County School District No. 1 for
real property  owned by  L aramie County  School District No. 1 described as a strip of land
approximately 126 ft. wide from east to west and approximately 398 ft. long from north to south,
consisting of approximately 50,148 square feet +/- (estimated value of $80,000.00), situated in the
eastern part of Sunrise Elementary School site within Lot 1, Block 1, Sun Valley School Addition,
Cheyenne, WY generally located on the north side of East 12  St, adjacent to Sun Valley Park.th
Under other business:
Bryan Grzegorczyk, President, Laramie County Liquor Association, provided information
on a taxi ride program that will be implemented during this year’s Cheyenne Frontier Days, stating
a liquor representative is purchasing 1,000 free taxi rides to assist people in being transported safely
to/from liquor establishments.  He advise d advertising of the program will be conducted.  Mayor
Kaysen expressed appreciation to the Association for program efforts involving residents’ safety.
Mayor Kaysen reminded the public the first Cheyenne Neighborhood Night Out event will
be Tu esday e vening, July  13 , 2010 a t di fferent l ocations thr oughout t he c ommunity, a nd a lso
advised a public forum would be held Wednesday, July 14, 2010 beginning at 6:00 p.m., Council
Chambers, regarding the issue of trees in Lions Park and air traffic involving Cheyenne Regional
Airport.
There being  no further  business to come before the g overning body , Mayor Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 8:48 p.m. 
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 24, 2010