MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-07-26 | CLIP_ID: 164 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 164

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
July 26, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil Chambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr.
Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)   Mr. Spiker  moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Brown. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes fr om Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 12, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouche rs Meeting of the Gover ning Body on July 19, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez and Mr. Collins each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to radio station KYOY and Bicycle Station, Inc. respectively).  Mr. Valdez vacated Council
Chambers.  Mr. Brown  mo ved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr.
Spiker.  Upon inquiry , City Treasurer Barb Dorr reviewed information available on a vouc her
payable to Alco Mobile Storage LLC ($150.00), rent for temporary storage unit at Depot Plaza, and
Mayor Kaysen advised information would be provided relative to completion of the Depot Plaza
Operations building and termination of storage rentals. Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable
to American Medical Response ($522.50), ambulance services, Todd Feezer, Asst. Director, Parks
and Recreation Dept., expressed his belief that the contract agreement with the event organizer for
use of the Taco John’s Events Center for the MMA Fight required an on-site ambulance during the
event, noting that contra ct (lease of the f acility) revenue off-sets the expense.  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers with the exception
of Mr. Collins, who did not vote.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Valdez returned to
Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input on the proposed trade
of real properties owned by the City of Cheyenne, being two parcels of land which comprised the
former Civitan Park, the north half of the right-of-way for Civitan Place, a platted but unbuilt street,
and the right-of-way for a platted, but unbuilt, alley, all of which are located in Arp Addition, 5 th
Filing, generally located south of West Leisher Road between Cribbon Avenue and Dey Avenue,
and a ll o f w hich w ere va cated by  the Governing B ody of  the  City  of  Che yenne pu rsuant t o
Ordinance No. 3900, a pproved June 28 , 2010, and tog ether consisting of  approximately 45,519
square feet +/- (estimated value of $80,000.00), to Laramie County School District No. 1 for real
property owned by Laramie County School District No. 1 described as a strip of land approximately
126 ft. wide fr om east to wes t and approximately 398 ft. long  from north to south, consisting of
approximately 50,148 square feet +/- (estimated value of $80,000.00), situated in the eastern part
of Sunrise Elementary School site within Lot 1, Block 1, Sun Valley School Addition, Cheyenne,
WY generally located on the north side of East 12  St, adjacent to Sun Valley Park.  Todd Feezer,th
Asst. Director, Parks and Recreation Dept., referenced two maps he displayed reflecting the parcels
involved in the property trade, which will benefit the new Goins Elementary school building and
new park land for the City.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing
having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
“An Ordinance repealing Chapter 5.72, Public Transport, in its entirety and re -creating
Chapter 5.72, Public Transportation, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne
City Code.” Joe Elkins, owner, B.C. Cab, expressed concerns with several sections of the proposed
ordinance and discussed leasing of public transportation conveyances to drivers; proof of vehicle
insurance; carrying or delivering of alcoholic or malt beverages; metered vs. non-metered tracking
relative to daily trip sheet requirements, and offering cab companies the option to have a distinctive
color scheme (logo) similar to the option provided to limousine and carriage service providers.  Mr.
Elkins further c ommented on lack of  enforcement of curr ent code and state statutes involving
business practices by other c ab companies that he fe lt were in violation of law.  Upon inquiry
regarding the proposed e ffective date of the ordina nce, if approved, City Clerk Car ol Intlekofer
stated provisions of the ordinance indicate effectiveness would be upon approval of the ordinance
on 3  and final reading and publication of the ordinance in the local newspaper, which would berd
some time the week following final approval to allow time to finalize revised business and permit
application forms.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and
final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  I t was advised the  substitut e includes i nserting the words “ and public tra nsportation
conveyances” in Section 5.72.010, para graph I ., betwee n the words “ records” and “r elating.”
Discussion topi cs in cluded: L anguage c onsistency; va gueness o f w ording in c ertain s ections;
specification of fees relative to criminal or background checks; time frame of applicant disclosure
of convictions; language involving reasons for the chief’s disapproval of an application; definition
of terms contained in Section 5.72.060 A. 1. and whether the section applied to on-duty as well as
off-duty drivers; daily trip sheets and record keeping requirements; taxicab logos and approval of
same by the police chief; posting of driver permit with photo within conveyances; fees assessed for
transportation services; safety issues and concerns, and clarification of wording in certain sections
of the ordinance.  Ms. Broyles moved to postpone for 2 weeks, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Dr. Rinne
raised a point of order regarding the procedural process involving the motion to amend by substitute
vs. the motion to postpone.  Upon inquiry regarding the amended substitute language, Dan White,
City Attorney, explained the change was made pursuant to discussion and recommendation by the
Finance Committee, noting previous changes were also included.  Following comments on voting
on the proposed substitute prior to the motion to postpone, Mayor Kaysen advised the motion to
amend by substitute would be the motion on the floor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members
of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown and Dr. Rinne voting “no.”  Mayor
Kaysen advised the motion to amend by  substitute carried.  Pursuant to comments reg arding the
procedural process, Ms. Broyles withdrew her motion to postpone with concurrence by Mr. Valdez
as second to the motion.  Mr. Brown requested a point of clarification regarding what motion had
been voted upon with Mayor Kaysen stating the motion to amend by substitute was the motion acted
upon and approved.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone for 2 weeks (to August 9, 2010), seconded by
Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Elkins spoke in support of postponement and commented on ordinance sections
he felt should be clarified or reviewed for discrepancies.  Discussion included enforcement; whether
the postponement time frame would be adequate to review issues that had been raised; request to
Mr. Elkins to submit written comments for suggested changes, and what would transpire during the
postponement time frame regarding further review and potential changes to the ordinance.  Mayor
Kaysen confirmed the dates/times of Finance Committee and City Council meeting schedules on
the ordinance if the postponement was approved.  Upon inquiry, Lt. Mark Munari, Police Dept.
Patrol Division Commander, provided information on meetings and communications that had been
held with public transportation companies and the opportunity for their input regarding the proposed
ordinance, stating the ordinance was drafted pursuant to cab companies’ r equest and that their
comments had been taken into consideration when drafting the ordinance.  He advised he will work
with the City Attorney and public transportation companies to further review the ordinance during
the postponement time frame.  Comment was made on the proposed postponement time frame.  Mr.
Brown withdrew his motion to postpone for 2 weeks with concurrence by Ms. Broyles as second
to the motion.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone for 4 weeks, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Elkins
spoke in support of the motion.  May or Kaysen clarified if the postponement  was a pproved, the
item would come before City Council at the August 23, 2010 meeting for referral back to Finance
Committee.  Motion to postpone (to August 23, 2010) carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body.
“An Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being  situated
in a portion of Tracts 7 and 10, Dell Range Addition, 2  Filing; Lot 3 Smithson View, together withnd
a portion of Carla Drive, Thomas Road and College Drive, Laramie County, Wyoming (generally
located north of and adjacent to Carla Drive, between Ridge Road and College Drive).”  Reporting
for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by
Mr. Collins. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#3901) 
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the zoning
classification from P Public District to HR-2 Hig h Density-Residential Developing District for
Fincher Block, a replat of Lots 1-8, Block 193, and vacated 16-foot alley contained within said
Block 193, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Bradley and Morrie Avenues, and
E. 22nd and 23rd Streets).”  Ms. Ash moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne c ity map of the Chey enne City  Co de, by changing the  zoning
classification from  P-Publi c, MR-1-Me dium Residential Established and L I-Light I ndustrial
Districts to LI-Light Industrial District for BOPU Subdivision, a replat of portions of Blocks 98, 99,
and 151; all of Blocks 149 and 150; and vacated streets and alleyways, Original City, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located a t th e no rthwest c orner o f t he int ersection o f S nyder A venue a nd W. 2 4th
Street).”  Ms. Ash moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the zoning
classification from P Publ ic District to MUR Mix ed Use-With Residential Emphasis District for
Garey Addition, 2  Filing, a replat of a portion of Lot 2 and all of Lots 3 and 4, Garey Addition,nd
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to W. Fox Farm Road, West of Walterscheid
Boulevard).” Ms. Ash moved to appr ove on sec ond reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mot ion
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cheyenne
Business Parkway, First Filing Refinement A, a replat of  Lots 10 and 11, Block 1 , C heyenne
Business Par kway, First F iling, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located a t the northwest cor ner of  the
intersection of Echostar D rive and Ca mpstool Road).”  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5225)
 
[CA] “A Resolution acknowledging receipt of the Cheyenne Safety Assessment Report prepared
by DiExSys LLC for the Chey enne Metropolitan Planning Organization.”  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5226)
 
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor to sign a memorandum of understanding with Laramie
County to apply for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program” -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] “A Resolution approvi ng the submittal of an applica tion to the W yoming Water
Development Commission for funding for the Southern Water Transmission Main - Phase II project
and authorizing the director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and all related
documents” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] “A Resolution approving a user water and sewer services agreement between the Board of
Public Utilities and the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research.(UCAR)” -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Ma yor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for F incher
Block, a replat of Lots 1 thru 8, Block 193, and vacated 16-foot alley contained within said Block
193, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Bradley and Morr ie Avenues, and E.
22nd and 23rd Streets)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for BOPU
Subdivision, a replat of portions of Blocks 98, 99, and 151; all of Blocks 149 and 150; and  vacated
streets and alleyways, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the
intersection of Sny der A venue a nd W. 24th S treet)” --  re ferred to Publi c Servic es Committ ee
(sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the May or and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for Garey
Addition, 2nd Filing, a  repla t of a port ion of Lot 2 and all of L ots 3 and 4, Gar ey Addition,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to W. Fox Farm Road, west of Walterscheid
Boulevard)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne to execute
a memorandum of understanding for the trade of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne  to
Laramie County School District No. 1, described as two parcels of land which comprised the  former
Civitan Park, the north half of the right-of-way of Civitan Place, a platted, but unbuilt, street and the
right-of-way of a platted, but unbuilt, alley, all of which are located in Arp Addition, 5  filing,th
generally located south of West L eisher Roa d betwee n Cribbon and Dey  Avenue s, toge ther
consisting of approximately 45,519 square feet,  (estimated value of  $80,000.00) in exchange for
real property  o wned by Laramie County  School District No. 1, descr ibed as a  strip of land
approximately 126 ft. in width and approximately 398 ft. in length, consisting of approximately
50,148 s quare f eet ( estimated v alue o f $ 80,000.00), s ituated i n t he e astern p art o f t he S unrise
Elementary School site within Lot 1, Block 1, Sun Alley School addition, Cheyenne, WY, generally
located on the north side of e ast 12  Street, adja cent to Sun Valley  Park” - - referred to F inanceth
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Consideration of FAA Grant #3-56-0005-46 between the City of Cheyenne, the County of
Laramie, and the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the implementation of a Safety Management
System Progr am (Phase I I) and  for airport oper ations.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried.
(#5576)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School District No.1 for school
resource of ficers f or the 2010-2011 s chool y ear - - r eferred to  F inance Com mittee (d ue to
postponement from 06/28/10).
[CA] Contract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne Pub lic Wor ks Sa nitation D ivision a nd Was te
Management D isposal Se rvices o f C olorado, Inc. to  a ccept p ermitted s olid waste a t th e Wel d
landfill, Ault, CO (Solid Waste fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #5563 between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group,
Inc. dba Knife River for the construction of the 2009 Cheyenne Transit Program Bus Stop Upgrades
Project (Federal Transportation Administration/American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $101,968.90). (#5563)  
[CA] Change Or der #1 to a ccepted Bid #R-7-10 betwe en the City  of Chey enne a nd J DM
Equipment, LLC, for an upper hopper extension to the baler conveyor located at the Transfer Station
(State Land and Investment Board funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to
exceed $6,012.00). 
 [CA] Consideration of Bid #M-24-10 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and  Colorado
Lining International of Parker, CO for the Third Evaporation Pond project at the landfill. Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $157,824.60). (#5577)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-1-11 for furnishing 4 new Medium/Heavy Duty, Body on Chassis
Transit Buses for the City of Cheyenne Transit Department, from Intermountain Coach Leasing,
Inc., Colorado Spring s, CO.  Motion (per Consen t Agenda) ca rried ( amount not to ex ceed
$243,500.00).
[CA] Consideration of #Bid R-2-11 for furnishing one new Motor Grader for the City of Cheyenne
Street & Alley Division from Honnen Equipment, Casper, WY -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of a Calcutta to be held Thursday, August 5, 2010 beginning at
7:00 p.m. at Alf’s Pub, 1622 East 19th St., Cheyenne, WY, in conjunction with the Alf’s Pub Golf
Tournament. Proceeds to benefit the local Multiple Sclerosis Society.  
Announcement was made of  the  a ppointment o f D onald T hreewit to  the  Hi storic
Preservation Board to be confirmed August 9, 2010. 
Under other business, Steven Martinez, Bad Ass Tattoo, reviewed meetings, conversations,
governing body’s hearing process and outcome, and his subsequent appeal request to District Court,
which has be en dismissed, reg arding denial of his body  artist business per mit.  He expressed
procedural concerns involving the hearing, and commented on his approval through the County to
open a body art establishment outside of City limits.  He requested City Council approve issuance
(by means of taking a vote) of his body artist permit to p rovide services within the City.  Ci ty
Attorney Dan White requested the opportunity to research whether the governing body, under other
business at a City  Council meeting , has the a uthority to gr ant a lice nse based on a proc edural
posture.  Mr. Martinez commented on the Wyoming Administrative Procedure Act and the appeal
process.  Mr. White stated his belief that there was no prohibition in City Code that would preclude
Mr. Martinez from re-applying for a body artist permit.  Discussion followed on allowing time for
the City Attorney to review issues involved with  the request and a reasonable time frame for the
attorney’s response.  Mr. Mar tinez talked about his financial busine ss hardship, timeliness of a
response from the attorney, and potential litigation issues that may affect the City.  Co mments
followed on procedural process; timeliness of legal review; re-application for a permit as an option;
whether conditions could be placed on a license, and potential litigation pursuant to comments made
by Mr. Martinez.  Mayor Kaysen advised the City Attorney would review and provide a response
to Mr. Martinez and governing body members by the end of the week (i.e. July 30, 2010).
There being  no further  business to com e before the  g overning body , Mayor Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 7:10 p.m. 
 Submitted by,
 
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 August 2, 2010