MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-08-09 | CLIP_ID: 168 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 168

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
August 9, 2010
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: MAYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne and
Mr. Valdez.  A bsent: Mr. Spiker.  Al so present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, Ci ty
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)   Mr. Collins  moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Pierson. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on J uly 26, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body on August 2, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown  moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Upon inq uiry, City Tr easurer B arb Do rr a nd Ma yor Ka ysen p rovided in formation a vailable
concerning a voucher payable to B&B Sewer Service ($180.00), pump out of grease trap at Shadows
Restaurant, Depot Building, and City Engineer Doug Vetter reviewed a voucher payable to Knife
River, ($55.51),  washed rock landscape material at Harmony Meadows for City drainage repair.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08. 040 Chey enne City  map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from P Public District to HR-2 Hig h Density-Residential Developing District for
Fincher Block, a replat of Lots 1-8, Block 193, and vacated 16-foot alley contained within said
Block 193, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Bradley and Morrie Avenues, and
E. 22nd and 23rd Streets).”  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of
the governing body present. (#3902)
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne c ity map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from P-Publi c, MR-1-Me dium Residential Established and L I-Light I ndustrial
Districts to LI-Light Industrial District for BOPU Subdivision, a replat of portions of Blocks 98, 99,
and 151; all of Blocks 149 and 150; and va cated streets and alleyways, Original City, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (l ocated a t th e no rthwest corner o f t he int ersection o f S nyder A venue a nd W. 2 4th
Street).”  Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#3903)
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  map  of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from P Publi c District to MUR Mix ed Use-With Residential Emphasis District for
Garey Addition, 2  Filing, a replat of a portion of Lot 2 and all of Lots 3 and 4, Garey Addition,nd
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to W. Fox Farm Road, West of Walterscheid
Boulevard).” Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#3904)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor to sign a memorandum of understanding with Laramie
County to apply for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program.” Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5227)
[CA] “A Resolution appr oving the submittal of an applica tion to the W yoming Water
Development Commission for funding for the Southern Water Transmission Main - Phase II project
and authorizing the director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and all related
documents.” Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5228)
[CA] “A Resolution approving a user water and sewer services agreement between the Board of
Public Utilities and the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research (UCAR).” Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5229)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Ma yor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for F incher
Block, a replat of Lots 1 thru 8, Block 193, and vacated 16-foot alley contained within said Block
193, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Bradley and Morr ie Avenues, and E.
22nd and 23rd Streets).” Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5230)
“A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Pl at f or BOPU
Subdivision, a replat of portions of Blocks 98, 99, and 151; all of Blocks 149 and 150; and  vacated
streets and alleyways, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the
intersection of Sny der A venue a nd W. 24th S treet).”  Ms . Ash moved to adopt with staff
recommendations #3  thr ough 7 , s econded b y Mr . Co llins.  M otion c arried. Vo ting “ yes” – a ll
members of the governing body present.  (#5231)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to si gn a F inal P lat for Garey
Addition, 2nd Filing, a  repla t of a portion of L ot 2 and al l of Lots 3 and 4, Garey  Addition,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to W. Fox Farm Road, west of Walterscheid
Boulevard).” Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5232)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne to execute
a memorandum of understanding for the trade of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne  to
Laramie County School District No. 1, described as two parcels of land which comprised the  former
Civitan Park, the north half of the right-of-way of Civitan Place, a platted, but unbuilt, street and the
right-of-way of a platted, but unbuilt, alley, all of which are located in Arp Addition, 5  filing,th
generally located south of West L eisher Roa d betwee n Cribbon and Dey  Avenue s, toge ther
consisting of approximately 45,519 square feet,  (estimated value of  $80,000.00) in exchange for
real property  owned by  L aramie County  School District No. 1, desc ribed a s a strip of land
approximately 126 ft. in width and approximately 398 ft. in length, consisting of approximately
50,148 sq uare feet ( estimated v alue of  $8 0,000.00), sit uated in  the  e astern part of the Sun rise
Elementary School site within  Lot 1, Block 1, Sun Valley  School addition, Chey enne, WY,
generally located on the north side of east 12  Street, adjacent to Sun Valley Park.”  Motion (perth
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5233)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing
Body of the City of Cheyenne to install storm sewer on Snyder Avenue, between Pershing Blvd. and
Randall Avenue” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction account
grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing
Body of the Cit y of Cheyenne for the Cox  Parking Garage induction lighting retrofit project” --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction account
grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing
Body of the City  of Chey enne for an e arly warning system for Chey enne’s dri nking water” --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
[CA] “A Resolution prioritizi ng the City  of Chey enne’s three a pplications to the State L oan and
Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne for Mineral Royalty
Capital Construction account (Chapter 3) funds” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms.
Broyles). 
Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School District No.1 for school
resource officers for the  2010-2011 school y ear.  Reporting  for F inance Committee, Mr. B rown
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded
by Mr. Pierson.  It was noted the substitute revises the contract payment amount and, upon inquiry,
Police Chief Brian Kozak confirmed payment for services is for duration of the school year only.
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main motion
as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – a ll members of the governing body present.
(#5579)
[CA] Contract be tween th e City  of  Chey enne Pub lic Wor ks Sa nitation D ivision a nd Was te
Management D isposal Se rvices o f C olorado, Inc. to  a ccept permitted so lid wa ste a t th e Wel d
landfill, Ault, CO (Solid Waste fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5580)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne Police Department Victim Witness Program and the
State of Wyoming Division of Victim Services for services to victims of crime -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne Police Department and Tina
Henderson for crime victim assistance services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City  of Chey enne Police D epartment and
Brenda Johnson for crime victim assistance services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Chey enne Police D epartment and
Leslie Burch for crime victim assistance services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Contract  #5477 between the City of Cheyenne and Recco, Inc.
d/b/a Five-R Co. to s ubstitute 277 v olt heaters with 208 volt heaters to ac commodate existing
electrical system at the City Transfer Station (State Land and Investment Board funds) -- referred
to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Amendment Number One to Cooperative Agreement #5512 between the City of Cheyenne
and Wyoming Department of Transportation for Cheyenne Marginal-Vandehei Interchange (2007-
2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of #Bid R-2-11 for furnishing one new Motor Grader for the City of Cheyenne
Street & Alley Division from Honnen Equipment, Casper , WY.  Moti on (per Consent Ag enda)
carried.
Appointment of Donald Threewit to the Historic Preservation Board.  Mr. Collins moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Announcement was made of the appointment of Lorna Sanders to the Housing & Community
Development Advisory Council, to be confirmed August 23, 2010. 
Under other City business:
Steven Martinez stated he  had re cently reapplied for a Body Artist business permit and
requested information regarding the re view status of the a pplication. Police Chief B rian Kozak
advised he had completed his review and his recommendation would be to approve. Upon request
by Mr. Martinez as to whether there was any way to “fast track” the remaining application review
process, Mayor Kaysen and Ci ty Clerk Carol I ntlekofer provided information on the application
processing procedure once Chief Kozak’s written recommendation has been received in the City
Clerk’s office.
Pachomio Sandoval requested information regarding placement of political and other types
of s igns in the public rig ht-of-way.  L isa Paffor d, Building  and De velopment Off ice, a dvised
political and other signs must be located on private property, not in the public right-of-way, and that
set back distances vary throughout the City depending on property lines, and street width and area
dedicated to the public.  Comment was made on enforcement measures involving signs in the public
right-of-way.
It was noted a fund raiser (Mad Hatter Tea Party) open to the public w ill be held Sunday
afternoon, August 15, 2010 at the Paul Smith Children’s Village.
Appreciation was expressed to the Police Department for its graffiti removal program and
it was noted that donations are being accepted to assist with program expenses.
There being n o further busine ss to come bef ore the  g overning body , Mayor Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 6:22 p.m. 
 Submitted by,
 
 
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 August 16, 2010