MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-08-23 | CLIP_ID: 170 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 170

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
August 23, 2010
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Che yenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s dat e
beginning a t 6:02 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were : MAYOR - Richar d L . Kay sen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson,
Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker a nd Mr. Valde z.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items li sted with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the g overning body and will be enac ted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a  member of  the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal seque nce on the  ag enda.)  Mr. B rown  moved to a pprove Consent
Agenda items, sec onded by  Mr. Pierson. Motion carr ied. Voting “yes” – a ll members of the
governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 9, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouche rs Meeting of the Governing Body on Aug ust 16, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valde z moved to approve pay ment of vouche rs as pre sented, sec onded by  Mr.
Spiker.  Discussion followed c oncerning a  voucher  pay able to Chey enne R egional Airport
($200,000.00 for  infrastruc ture improvements) a nd issues reg arding Americ an Ea gle Airline’s
flight schedule  and lack of notification to the public re garding reduc ed flig hts in/out  of
Cheyenne, pre-sold tickets for discontinued flights, and whether the airline was in the process of
being so ld.  Ma yor Ka ysen a dvised s everal community of ficials a re c ommunicating wi th
American Eagle about concerns.  During comments Dr. Rinne stated, as a point of information,
that although he is the City  Council repre sentative to the Airpor t Board, he doe s not review the
Airport’s contracts they may enter into with other entities.  M otion carried.  Vo ting “yes” – a ll
members of the governing body.
“An Ordinance repealing Chapter 5.72, Pub lic Transport, in it s entirety and re -creating
Chapter 5.72, Public Tra nsportation, of Title 5, B usiness L icenses and Reg ulations, of the
Cheyenne City Code” -- referred to Finance Committee (due to postponement from 7/26/2010).
“An Ordinance amending Section 10.08.010, State Law adopted, of Chapter 10.08, State
Traffic Laws Ad opted, of  Ti tle 10 , V ehicle a nd Tr affic, o f C heyenne City Cod e pe rtaining to
Ignition Interlock Licenses” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
“An Ordinance adopting water rates to be charged to users of the Cheyenne water system for the
purpose of  mineral e xploration outside of the City  in L aramie County  and other  portions of
southeast Wyoming” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
“A Res olution authorizing submission of a Minera l Roy alty Capital Construction
Account Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the
Governing B ody of the City  of Chey enne to install storm sewer  on Sny der Av enue, betwee n
Pershing Boulevard a nd Randall Avenue .”  Reporting  for F inance Commi ttee, Mr. B rown
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend the date contained in the
4th Whereas clause from Sept. 16, 2010 to Jan. 20, 2011, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Moti on to
amend carried.  Voting  “yes” – a ll members of the g overning body.  Main motion as amended
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#5234)
 “A Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction account
grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing
Body of the City  of Chey enne for the Cox P arking Gar age induction lighting  retrofit project.”
Mr. B rown mov ed to  a dopt, se conded b y Mr . V aldez.  Mr . B rown mov ed to  a mend the  da te
contained in the 5th Where as cla use fr om Sept. 16, 2010 to J an. 20, 2011, sec onded by  Mr.
Valdez.  Motion to amend ca rried.  Voting “yes” – a ll members of the g overning body.  Upon
inquiry, Vicki  Nemecek, Asst. Public W orks Director, clarified induction lighting is a  form of
fluorescent lighting that results in e nergy savings.  She  reviewed estimated annual energy cost
savings, and advised L ong Buildin g Technologies is putti ng the projec t toge ther a nd that the
project would be put out to bid.  Upon i nquiry, City Treasurer Barb Dorr verified the City owns
the parking garage.  Comments followed on the City’s agreement with the County regarding use
of the  g arage a nd ma intenance c osts.  Ma in motion a s a mended c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” – a ll
members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”.  (#5235)
“A Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction account
grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing
Body of the City of Cheyenne for an early warning system for Cheyenne’s drinking water.”  Mr.
Brown mov ed to  a dopt, se conded b y Mr . V aldez.  Mr . B rown mov ed to  a mend the  da te
contained in  the  5th  Whe reas c lause fr om S ept. 16 , 2 010 to  Jan.  20 , 2 011, se conded b y Ms.
Broyles.  Motion to amend car ried.  Votin g “yes” – a ll members of the g overning body.  Upon
inquiry, Tim W ilson, BOPU Dire ctor, e xplained the sy stem will provide monitoring  of
Cheyenne’s drinking w ater while in the distribution sy stem, and would ale rt BO PU if any
chemical was introduce d acc identally or i ntentionally into the drinking w ater sy stem.  He
clarified the funding  reque st is for 5 units to be placed throug hout the city , and provide d
information on BOPU’s funding participation, and system software, installation, communication
equipment and ma intenance inv olved.  Ma in m otion a s a mended c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” – a ll
members of the governing body.  (#5236)
“A Resolution pri oritizing the  City of Chey enne’s three a pplications to the State L oan
and Investment Boa rd on beha lf of the Gove rning Body of the City  of Chey enne f or Minera l
Royalty Capital Construction account (Chapter 3) funds.”  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. B rown moved to a mend the date contained in the 3r d Whereas clause from
Sept. 16, 2010 to J an. 20, 2011, sec onded by  Mr. Valde z.  Upon inquiry , Cindy  Schn eider,
Grants Manager, clarified the amendment request is due to an ove rsight regarding the date of the
SLIB meeting.  M otion to amend carried.  V oting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
Upon inquiry, Ms. Schneider and Mayor Kaysen reviewed the administrative process utilized in
proposing p rojects f or f unding r equests a nd d etermination o f t he p rioritization o f p rojects.
Discussion followed on prioritization of the proposed pr ojects.  Mr. Pierson moved to amend the
priority listing to switch priority #2 (Cox Parking Garage Induction Lighting) to #3, and priority
#3 (BOPU early warning system for drinking water) to #2, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion to
amend car ried.  V oting “ yes” –  a ll me mbers o f th e g overning b ody.  M ain mo tion a s tw ice
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#5237)
[CA] “A Resolution designating the Director of Purchasing as Agent for the City of Cheyenne
for t he pu rpose of  or ganizing a nd ho lding a  Sur plus Mu nicipal Pr operty Auction at a  tim e
convenient for the City” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] “A Resolution a uthorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for
Woodhaven Subdivision, a replat of Lots 1 & 2, Block One, Farson Addition and Lots 1 through
14 inclusive, Dry Creek Twin Homes Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Wills
Road a nd M cCann A venue, s outh o f th e D ry Cr eek Ch annel)” - - r eferred to  Pu blic Se rvices
Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution allowing the Governing Body to utilize funds in the Annexation
Revolving Loan Fund to fac ilitate extension of infra structure to support economic de velopment
efforts in Cheyenne” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles, Mr.
Brown and Mr. Pierson).
[CA] “A Resolution approving Temporary User Water Service Agreements with A & W Water
Service, Inc., and Western Environmental Serv ices, Inc. for the purpose of  drilling wells for the
exploration a nd devel opment o f o il w ells a nd a uthorizing the  B oard of  Pub lic Ut ilities to
approve fu ture a pplications fo r T emporary Us er Water S ervice Ag reements” --  re ferred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne Police Department Victim W itness Program and
the State of Wyoming Division of Victim Service s for services to victims of crime. Motion (pe r
Consent Agenda) carried (funding to the City in amount of $138,418.93 annually).  (#5583)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the Cit y of Chey enne Police D epartment and
Tina He nderson f or cr ime victim assistance se rvices.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried.
(#5584)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City  of Chey enne Police D epartment and
Brenda Johnson for c rime victim assistance se rvices. Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried.
(#5585)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City  of Chey enne Police D epartment and
Leslie Burch for crime victim assistance services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) car ried.
(#5586)
[CA]  Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Gra nite Peak
Development L LC to facilitate e xtension of infra structure to support economic de velopment
efforts in Cheyenne -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to C ontract #5477 bet ween the City of Chey enne and Recco,
Inc. d /b/a F ive-R Co.  to s ubstitute 27 7 v olt heaters with 2 08 vo lt h eaters to a ccommodate
existing electrical system at the City  Transfer Station (State L and and I nvestment Board fund).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $1,535.35).  (#5477)
 
[CA] Amendment #1 to Coopera tive Ag reement #5512 between the City  of Chey enne a nd
Wyoming De partment of T ransportation for Chey enne Ma rginal-Vandehei I nterchange (2007-
2010 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (City amount not to ex ceed
$900.00).  (#5512)
[CA] Amendment #1 to Ener gy Perfor mance Contract #5516 betwe en the City  of Chey enne
and Long Building Technologies, Inc. to re move lamp re placement at Lions, Pioneer, B rimmer,
Powers and Dutcher Ball Fields and replace with lighting fixture replacement at Brimmer Fields
#1 and #2 (D epartment of Ener gy and Amer ican Rec overy and Reinvestment Act (A RRA)
grants) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Amendment #2 to Ener gy Performance Contract #5516 betwe en the City  of Chey enne
and Long Building Technologies, Inc. to add lig hting fixture replacement at B rimmer Field #3
(2007-2010 1% Sales Tax and athletic players fees) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-5-11 for f urnishing one  new loade r/backhoe for  the City  of
Cheyenne Street & Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Ta x – Storm Sewer Maintenance Fund)
– referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of L orna Sande rs to the Housing  & Community  Deve lopment Advisory
Council.  Mr. Collins moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
– a ll m embers of  the  g overning bo dy wi th t he e xception of  Ma yor Kaysen who d id n ot v ote
(Mayoral appointment).
[CA] Community F acilities F ees Re port fo r F iscal Year ending J une 30, 2010 --  re ferred to
Finance Committee.
Announcement was made  of the re -appointments of De an Mey er, Scott Thomas a nd
Mary Bienz to the Public Transit Advisory Board to be confirmed September 13, 2010.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 13, 2010 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers for a  transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application filed
with the City Clerk's Office for Lambousis Revocable Trust d/b/a The Mayflower, 112 W. 17th
St., Cheyenne, WY. (License currently held by Bedrock Seafood, Inc. d/b/a The Mayflower, 112
W. 17th St., Cheyenne, WY.) 
Announcement was made that due to the L abor Day Holiday on Monday , September 6,
2010, the following  meetings have be en rescheduled for Tue sday, September 7, 2010: F inance
Committee at 11:00 a. m., Room 122; Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body at Noon, City
Council Chambers, and Public Service s Commi ttee at 12:15 p.m., R oom 122, Municipal
Building, 2101 O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, WY.
Announcement was made of the appointment of James A. Martin as Chief of Fire a nd
Rescue for the City of Cheyenne, to be confirmed September 13, 2010.
There being  no fu rther business to come bef ore the  g overning body , Mayor Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 6:36 p.m. 
Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 September 2, 2010