MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-09-13 | CLIP_ID: 173 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 173

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
September 13, 2010
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:02 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were : MAYOR - Ri chard L . Kay sen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson,
Dr. Rinne (arriving at 6:04 pm), Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City
Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Da n White, City Attorney.  The pledg e of a llegiance was
recited.
PRESENTATION OF DRUG RECOGNITION EXPERT CENTENNI AL AWARD TO
POLICE CHI EF BRIAN KOZAK FOR HIS CONTRI BUTION TOWARD COMBATI NG
DRUG I MPAIRED DRI VING, AND  COMMI TMENT TO H IGHWAY SAFETY .  May or
Kaysen advised the individual who would be presenting the award had not yet arrived (traveling
from out of state) and, following query with no objection raised by City Council members, stated
the p resentation w ould b e d eferred to  a  la ter ti me in  th e me eting.  F ollowing th e n ext
presentation o n th e a genda, Ro bin Rot h, Col orado De partment o f T ransportation, Sta te
Coordinator for  Colorado’s Dr ug Recog nition Ex pert (D RE) prog ram, a warded Chief Kozak
with the 2009 Drug Recognition Expert Centennial Award.  She briefly explained the award and
noted Chief Kozak was receiving it for his signific ant contribution to the DRE prog ram during
his tenure a s Avon Police Chief, Eag le County, Colorado.  Also commenti ng on Chief Kozak’s
contributions to the program were Lt. Jon Anderle, Laramie Police Department, Stat e
Coordinator for  the DRE prog ram a nd chair of t he Gove rnor’s L eadership Tea m to Prevent
Impaired D riving, and Dee West Peterson, State of Wy oming De partment of T ransportation,
Highway Sa fety Of fice. Ch ief K ozak s tated he  wa s h onored to  re ceive the  a ward a nd br iefly
mentioned f uture pr ograms h e is w orking o n for c ontinued h ighway sa fety e fforts.
Congratulations were expressed to Chief Kozak.
PRESENTATION OF  CERTIFICATES TO CI TY OF  CHEYENNE LANDFILL AND
TRANSFER STATI ON B Y THE WYOMI NG SOL ID WASTE & RECYCL ING
ASSOCIATION F OR OUTSTANDI NG MANAGEMENT AND E XEMPLARY HAND LING
OF SO LID WASTE MATERIAL. Jim Elias, Public Works Director, presented certificates of
recognition for outstanding ma nagement a nd for demonstrating da ily exemplary  handling  of
solid wa ste ma terials a t th e City  Landfill a nd Tr ansfer S tation to  Mo nty L anders, L andfill
Manager, and Denis Pino, Solid Waste Director and Transfer Station Operations Manager.  Mr.
Elias stated Mr. Landers and Mr. Pino are recognized state-wide as experts in the solid w aste
field and a re frequently asked to provide  their opinions and sugg estions on opera tions.  May or
Kaysen expressed appreciation to the recipients for  their service and commitment to the Ci ty of
Cheyenne.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the g overning body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a  m ember of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its  normal seque nce on the  ag enda.)  Mr. Collins m oved to appr ove Consent
Agenda items, sec onded by  Mr. B rown. Motion car ried. Voting  “y es” – all members of  the
governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 23, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body on September 7, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. B rown moved to a pprove pa yment of vouche rs as pr esented, seconde d by  Mr.
Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring for the purp ose of receiving comments and input
for a transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office
for Lambousis Revocable Trust d/b/a The Mayflower, 112 W. 17th St., Cheyenne, WY. (License
currently held by Bedrock Seafood, Inc. d/b/a The Mayflower, 112 W. 17th St., Cheyenne, WY.)
Upon inquiry , J ohn L ambousis, applicant, provide d information on the May flower’s re cent
business operations, ex plained the pr evious licensee was no longe r operating the business and
that the application is a request to transfer the license back to him.  He advised he is h oping to
find someone to whom he can lease the establishment, or he  may attempt to sell/transfer.  There
being no further  comments or input and purpose  of the public he aring having been me t, Mayor
Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the item to Finance Committee.
“An Ordinance repealing Chapter 5.72, Public Transport, in its entirety and re-creating
Chapter 5.72, Public Tra nsportation, of Title 5, B usiness L icenses and Reg ulations, of the
Cheyenne City Code.” Joe E lkins, owner of B.C. Cab, provided written comments (on file with
office o f City Clerk) on the proposed or dinance and re viewed areas of conc ern, including the
lack of an option for an unique company color and lettering scheme for taxicabs, as opposed to
just a logo, and enforcement of violation of laws.  He cited examples of taxicab v ehicle
violations involving non-transparency of side and r ear windows due to lettering  which impairs
driver visibility , and cel l phone usag e contr ary to city  ordinanc e.  Reporting  for F inance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute ordinance, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  U pon inquiry,
City Attorney  Dan White explained the chang es conta ined in the propos ed substitute (dated
9/9/2010 by the attorne y), stating changes were based upon discussion and comments made a t
previous Council and F inance Commi ttee meetings. Upon inquir y, City Clerk Carol I ntlekofer
stated t here a re c urrently less t han 1 2 p ublic t ransportation companies l icensed w ith t he C ity,
which does not inc lude horse dra wn ca rriages or pe dicab businesse s.  Comments followed
regarding cab company’s identification of fleet ve hicles with a spec ific logo vs. a color scheme,
or both.  Upon inquiry, Mr. White advised if a cab company uses a taximeter it must be visible
and prope rly calibra ted but the ordinanc e does not re quire use of  a taximeter; that fares for
services must be posted somewhere in the cab where it is visible, and that the ordinance does not
regulate ra tes that may  be asse ssed for se rvices.  Furt her comments followed r egarding the
purpose of the Police Chief’s approval of a company’s logo for vehicles with Police Chief Brian
Kozak sta ting his  be lief t hat a pproval e nsures th at ta xicabs wo n’t r esemble po lice ve hicle
markings.  During comments on including a color scheme option for taxicab vehicles, Mr. White
indicated deletion of a c olor scheme option from the proposed substitute ordinanc e was based
upon comment made at a previous meeting.  Upon inquiry regarding ordinance enfo rcement,
Chief K ozak s tated h e pla ns to h ave a  me mber o f t he poli ce department d esignated a s a
coordinator to monitor compli ance with requirements of the new  ordinance, and sta ted officer
awareness of ordinanc e provisions will be provided.  Motion to amend ca rried.  V oting “yes” –
all members of  the g overning body.  Main motion as am ended by substitut e ca rried.  V oting
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#3905)
“An Ordinance amending Section 10.08.010, State Law adopted, of Chapter 10.08, State
Traffic Laws Adopted, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of Cheyenne City Co de pertaining to
Ignition Interlock Licenses.”  Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.
Pierson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
“An Ordinance adopting water rates to be charged to users of the Cheyenne water system
for the purpose of mineral exploration outside of the City in Laramie County and other portions
of southeast Wy oming.” Mr. B rown moved to a pprove on se cond rea ding, se conded by  Mr.
Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established
and Section 17.08.040 Chey enne city map of the Chey enne City Code, by changing the zoning
classification from CB Community Business District to HI Heavy Industrial District for Lots 8 &
9, Bloc k 1, Chey enne B usiness Parkway , First F iling, Chey enne, Wy oming (located at the
northeast c orner o f t he int ersection o f P rogress Cir cle a nd Ca mpstool Ro ad)” --  re ferred to
Public Services Committee. 
[CA] “A Resolution designating the Director of Purchasing as Agent for the City of Cheyenne
for t he pu rpose of  or ganizing and holding a  Sur plus Mu nicipal Pr operty Au ction a t a  tim e
convenient for the City.” Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5238)
 “A Resolution author izing the Mayor and th e C ity C lerk t o s ign a F inal P lat for
Woodhaven Subdivision, a replat of Lots 1 & 2, Block One, Farson Addition and Lots 1 through
14 inclusive, Dry Creek Twin Homes Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Wills
Road and McCann Avenue, south of the Dry  Creek Channel).” Mr Spiker dec lared a conflict of
interest a nd va cated Co uncil Ch ambers.  Reporting fo r P ublic Se rvices Co mmittee, M s. As h
moved to adopt wit h staff r ecommendation #2, seconded by  Mr. Collins.  M otion carr ied.
Voting “yes” – a ll members of the g overning body prese nt in Council C hambers.  Following
announcement of the vote, Mr. Spiker returned to Council Chambers.  (#5239)
[CA] “A Resolution allowing the Governing Body to utili ze funds in the Annexation
Revolving Loan Fund to fac ilitate extension of infra structure to support economic de velopment
efforts in Cheyenne.”  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5240)
[CA] “A Resolution approving Temporary User Water Service Agreements with A & W Water
Service, Inc., and Western Environmental Services, Inc. for the purp ose of drilling wells for the
exploration a nd de velopment o f o il w ells a nd a uthorizing the  Board of  Pub lic Ut ilities to
approve future a pplications for Te mporary User Water  Service  Agreements.” Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5241)
[CA] A Resolution authorizi ng the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Coyote Flats, situated in the SW¼ of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County,
Wyoming (located north of a nd adjacent to E. Pershing  Boulevard, east of Whitney  Road)” - -
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Ma yor and the  City Clerk to sign a  County Final Plat for
Deerhaven Subdivis ion, a r eplat of Tra ct 6 and a  portion of Tra ct 7, Allison Trac ts; Tract 2,
Hermann Mea dows Subdivisi on; Lot 2 and a portion of L ot 1, Block 1, L ey Subdivis ion,
Laramie Cou nty, Wy oming (l ocated b etween E . F ox F arm a nd E. Jef ferson Roa ds, e ast o f S .
Greeley Highway)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing acceptance of the Core Prevention Grant Funds by the City of
Cheyenne Police D epartment on behalf of the  Gover ning B ody of the City  of Chey enne f or
substance a buse and suicide  preve ntion prog ramming” -- refe rred to Financ e Committ ee
(sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for The Poin te, Fifth Filing, a re plat of L ots 13-25, Bloc k 13; L ots 27-
69, Block 12; Lots 1-35, Block 16; Lots 1-22, Block 17; Lots 1-27, Block 18; Lots 1-32, Block
19; Lots 1-19, Bloc k 20 and L ot 1, Block 21, of  The Pointe; and Lots 37-38 and 71, B lock 14,
The Pointe, Second F iling, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located a t the sout hwest corner of the
intersection of East Four  Mile and Powderhouse  Roads) --  ref erred to Public Services
Committee.
[CA]  Memorandum of  Under standing between the City of Cheyenne a nd Gra nite Peak
Development L LC to facilitate extension  of i nfrastructure to support economic de velopment
efforts in Cheyenne.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5588)
[CA] Agreement b etween th e City  of  Che yenne, O ffice of Youth A lternatives, a nd L aramie
County School District No. 1, for f amily counseling  for sc hool refe rred stud ents/families --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement b etween th e City of  Che yenne, O ffice of  Yo uth Al ternatives, a nd L aramie
County School District No. 1, for c ounseling services to elementary and secondary age children
with disabilities on Individual Education Plans -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Lease Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne and State of Wy oming f or par king
services in the Cox Parking Structure -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA]  Amendment #1 to Energy Performance Contrac t #5516 betwee n the City  of Cheyenne
and Long Building Technologies, Inc. to re move lamp re placement at Lions, Pioneer, Brimmer,
Powers and Dutcher Ball Fields and rep lace with lighting fixture replacement at Brimmer Fields
#1 and #2 (D epartment of Ener gy and Am erican Recovery and Reinvestment Ac t (ARRA)
grants).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5516)
[CA] Amendment #2 to Energy Performance Contract #5516 between the City of Chey enne
and Long Building Technologies, Inc. to add lig hting fixture replacement at B rimmer Field #3
(2007-2010 1%  Sales Tax and athletic play ers f ees).  Motion (p er Consent Ag enda) car ried.
(#5516)
[CA] Contract Modifica tion #1 to C ontract #5575 betwee n the City  of C heyenne a nd J TL
Group d/b/a Knife River for additional quantities of asphalt and flagging hours for Dell Range
Boulevard r esurfacing projec t (2007-2010 1% O ptional Sales Tax) -- re ferred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification # 4 to C ontract #5321 betwee n the City  of C heyenne and Recco,
Inc. d /b/a F ive-R C o., f or a dditional w ork a nd a menities a t t he C heyenne Y outh A ctivity &
Community Center, located in David R. Romero South Chey enne Community Park (Community
Facility Fees) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-5- 11 for f urnishing one  new loade r/backhoe for  the City  of
Cheyenne Street & Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax – Storm Sewer Maintenance Fund).
Motion ( per C onsent Agenda) c arried ( amount n ot t o e xceed $ 90,738.00, T itan M achinery,
Cheyenne).
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-1-11 for  furnishing bulk "I ce Contro l Product" to the City  of
Cheyenne Public Works Department for use on city streets (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred
to Finance Committee.
[CA] Community Facilities Fees Report for F iscal Year ending June 30, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Re-appointments of De an M eyer, Sc ott Th omas a nd Ma ry B ienz to  the  Pub lic Tr ansit
Advisory B oard.  M r. Co llins mo ved to  a pprove, s econded b y M r. B rown.  M otion c arried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did
not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Appointment of James A. Martin as Chief of the Fire and Rescue Department for the City
of Cheyenne.  Mr. Spiker moved to approve , seconded by Mr. Collins.  M otion carried.  Voting
“yes” – a ll members of the g overning body with the exceptio n of Mayor Kaysen who did not
vote (Mayoral appointment).  M ayor Kaysen advised the oath of office for Chief Martin would
be admin istered at 8:30 a.m. on Sept. 14, 2010 in City Council Chambers and the public was
invited to attend.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 27, 2010 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers to dete rmine whether compliance of annexation conditions required
by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist  fo r a parcel of land being  situated in the SW 1/4 of Section 25,
T.14N., R.66W., 6th P .M., L aramie County , Wy oming ( generally located nor th of Pershing
Boulevard, between Whitney Road and Christensen Road).  
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 27, 2010 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers for a  transfer of ownership and transfer of lo cation for a retail liquor
license a pplication filed with the City  Clerk's  Office for Maverik I nc. d/b/a Mave rik, to be
located at Yellowstone Road  a nd Gardenia  Drive, Chey enne, WY. (L icense currently held by
Cheyenne 28, LLC d/b/a C.B. & Potts, 1650 Dell Range Boulevard, Cheyenne, WY.) 
There being no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , Mayor Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 6:48 p.m. 
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 September 25, 2010 