MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-09-27 | CLIP_ID: 175 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 175

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
September 27, 2010
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were : MAYOR - Ri chard L . Kay sen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson,
Dr. Ri nne (a rriving at 6:03 p.m.), Mr. Spiker and Mr . Valdez. Also prese nt: Carol I ntlekofer,
City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledg e of allegiance
was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no
separate discussion on these  items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Up on request by Ms. Case, and pursuant to
support received by Mr. Collins and Mr. Brown, agenda items #20(a) and 21(a) were removed
from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Collins moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda it ems,
seconded by Mr. Brown. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on September 13, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body on September 20, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valde z moved to approve pa yment of vouche rs a s presented, sec onded by  Mr.
Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to determine w hether compliance of anne xation
conditions require d by  Wy o. Stat. §15-1-402 exist  for a  parc el of land be ing situate d in the
SW1/4 of Section  25, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P .M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located
north of Pershing  Boule vard, be tween Whitney  Road and Christensen Road) . Br andon
Cammarata, Urba n Planning of fice, revie wed r equirements and complianc e of c onditions
contained in Wyo. Sta t. § 15-1-402, in cluding sp ecific inf ormation in dicating c ompliance wi th
Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402(a)(i) through (vi).  There being no further comments or input and purpose
of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
A public hea ring for a transfer of ownership and transfe r of loca tion for a r etail liquor
license a pplication filed wit h the City Clerk' s Offic e for  Maver ik I nc. d/b/a Mave rik, to be
located a t Yellowstone Road and G ardenia Drive , Chey enne, WY. (L icense curr ently held by
Cheyenne 28, L LC d/b/a C.B. &  Potts , 1650 Dell Rang e B oulevard, Chey enne, WY). Ma yor
Kaysen announced the a pplicant has withdra wn their a pplication, therefore, the public hea ring
would not be held.
“An Ordinance amending Section 10.08.010, State Law adopted, of Chapter 10.08, State
Traffic Laws Adopted, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of Cheyenne City Code pertaining to
Ignition Interlock Licenses.”  Reporting  for F inance Committee, Mr. B rown moved to a pprove
on thi rd and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – a ll
members of the governing body. (#3906)
“An Ordinance adopting water rates to be charged to users of the Cheyenne water system
for the purpose of mineral exploration outside of the City in Laramie County and other portions
of southeast Wy oming.” Mr. B rown moved to a pprove on third a nd final re ading, seconded by
Mr. Pierson.  I t was cla rified the r ates do not af fect Cit y rate payers.  Upon inquiry  regarding
water acc ess for tr ansporting, Randy  Hay s, Boa rd of Public Utilities (BOPU) A dministration
Manager, adv ised w ater h aulers wi ll a ccess f ire hy drants loc ated in  ind ustrial a reas, no t in
residential areas, and that the hydrants can be “metered” to track water usage and will have back
flow prevention devices.  Pursuant to comment on disposal of used water, Mr. Hays stated some
of the contaminated water can be reused in other operations and that he was not sure of the back-
end proces s involving dis posal.  H e pr ovided g eneral in formation o n a pplications fo r p ermits
through the State Engineer’s office, and noted two companies have applied for agreements with
the BOPU.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#3907)
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established
and Section 17.08.040 Chey enne city map of the Chey enne City Code, by changing the zoning
classification from CB Community Business District to HI Heavy Industrial District for Lots 8 &
9, Bloc k 1, Chey enne B usiness Parkway , First F iling, Chey enne, Wy oming (located at the
northeast corner  of the interse ction of Prog ress Circle  and Campstool Road).”  Repor ting f or
Public Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Comment was made that the area has been previously re-classified from an HI zone to
a CB zone for a business venture that did not move forward.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all
members of the governing body.
“An Ordinance creating Chapter 17.116.151 of Title 17, Zoning, of the Cheyenne City
Code pertaining to wa ter hauler truck temporary loading sites”-- r eferred to Financ e Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Collins) .
“A Resolution authorizing the Ma yor and the  City Clerk to sign a  County Final Plat for
Coyote Flats, situated in the SW¼ of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie C ounty,
Wyoming ( located nor th of and a djacent to E. Pe rshing Boule vard, e ast of Whitney  Road).”
Richard Brokaw, property owner, advised he  has bee n working with Cit y and County  Planning
staff for a solution to make the a rea a legal subdivision, noting the County Commissioners have
passed measures for requirements to enable this to be accomplished at their Sept. 21  meeting.st
Mr. Collins reported there was no recommendation on the item from Public Services Committee.
Mr. Co llins mov ed to  a dopt w ith Cou nty Pla nning Sta ff re commendations #1  and  2 and City
Staff recommendations #3 and 4, se conded by Mr. Pierson.  Discussion followed a nd included
the fo llowing top ics: Pr operty size ; il legal lo t sp lit by  a previous o wner; wa ter a nd se ptic
concerns if potential ac quisition of City  service s if neede d in t he future; zoning a nd platting
action needed for the property; annexation growth concerns, and letter issued from the Laramie
County Planning of fice.  Upon inq uiry, Mr. B rokaw indicated a ny future pla ns for hooking  the
north parcel to City services are premature at this time; that the south property currently has a
well and se ptic sy stem, and that a se cond g ravity forc ed sew er option study  has not bee n
initiated.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception
of Ms. Case voting “no”.  (#5242)
“A Resolution authorizing the Ma yor and the  City Clerk to sign a  County Final Plat for
Deerhaven Subdivis ion, a re plat of Tra ct 6 and a  portion of Tra ct 7, Allison Trac ts; Tract 2,
Hermann M eadows Subdivis ion; L ot 2 and a por tion of L ot 1, Block 1, L ey Subdivis ion,
Laramie Cou nty, Wy oming (l ocated b etween E . F ox F arm a nd E.  Jef ferson Roa ds, e ast o f S .
Greeley Hi ghway).” Mr . Sp iker d eclared a  c onflict of  int erest a nd va cated Co uncil Ch ambers.
Kelly Haf ner, B enchmark Eng ineering, agent for the  applicant a nd proper ty owner , explained
this is a consolidation of several pieces of land and the primary goal is to e stablish a Montalto
Drive (road) right-of-way to be dedica ted as a  public roadw ay.  He reviewed plans for the  area
that include providing  potable wa ter; roadway sections,  parking, curb a nd gutter; trail networ k
that can b e expanded with future development; multi-family residential development, additional
parking e xceeding zoning re quirements, and de dicated lots for  storm water  draina ge.  Upon
inquiry, Mr. Haf ner pr ovided information on the number  of re sidential units (60) th at will be
developed, and par king areas.  Mr. Collins  reported there was no re commendation on the item
from Public Service s Commi ttee.  Mr. Collins moved to adopt , seconded by  Mr. Pierson.
Comment w as ma de regarding time for sta ff review r elative to t he de velopment m eeting City
standards in conjunction with potential future a nnexation.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone for two
weeks.  M otion die d d ue to lack of a  se cond.  Up on inq uiry, D ennis A uker, Laramie Cou nty
School District #1, stated the district will  accommodate the anticipated student load throug h a
triad revie w proc ess, noting stude nts might be plac ed in one of  three  differ ent schools, and
clarified the district m ust acc ept the students. Upon inquiry , Mr. Haf ner r eviewed the storm
water detention plan and location of the current flood plain, which does not cross the property.
Further discussion was h eld regarding adequate parking for the de velopment, reduced roadway
width a t th e so uthern e nd of Montalto Dr ., de nsity, a nd wh ether a ny pr operty c ovenants
regulating the types of items that can be parked (i.e. boats, Rvs, etc.) were proposed.  In response
to discussion, Mr. Hafner advised he was not aware of any planned covenants; reviewed parking
and roadway standards, stating  both City and County standards will be met, and commented that
the trail sy stem will help with co nnectivity and saf ety conce rns re lative to keeping  pedestria n
traffic off the road.  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the g overning body present
in Council Ch ambers w ith th e e xception o f M s. Ca se a nd D r. Ri nne v oting “ no”.  F ollowing
announcement of the vote, Mr. Spiker returned to Council Chambers.  (#5243)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing acc eptance of the Core Prevention Grant Funds by the City of
Cheyenne Police D epartment on behalf of  the Gover ning B ody of the City  of Chey enne f or
substance abuse and suicide pre vention programming.”   Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) carried
(grant in the amount of $471,168.00).  (#5244)
[CA] “A Resolution deter mining that conditions for a nnexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-
402 exist for the pr operty described as a  parcel of land be ing situated in the SW 1/4 of Section
25, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., L aramie County, Wyoming (generally located nor th of Pershingth
Boulevard, be tween Whitney  Road and Christensen Road) ” --  ref erred to Publ ic S ervices
Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A R esolution re pealing Re solution #5 164; c reating a  ne w r esolution e stablishing g olf
course us er f ees a nd c ategories f or the  Ai rport G olf Cou rse a nd Kingham Pr airie Vi ew G olf
Course; and providing  for the division of re venues from said fe es to be deposited between the
General and Capital I mprovement F unds” --  ref erred to Fina nce Committee (sponsors -  Mr.
Brown, Mr. Collins and Mr. Valdez).
Preliminary Plat for The Pointe, F ifth Filing, a rep lat of Lots 13-25, Bloc k 13; L ots 27-
69, Block 12; Lots 1-35, Block 16; Lots 1-22, Block 17; Lots 1-27, Block 18; Lots 1-32, Block
19; Lots 1-19, Bloc k 20 and L ot 1, Block 21, of  The Pointe; and Lots 37-38 and 71, B lock 14,
The Pointe, Second F iling, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located a t the southwest corner of  the
intersection of East Four  Mile and Powderhouse  Roads). Ross Malins ki, President, Gua rdian
Development Company, clar ified that at this ti me the Company  is not planning on a ny HR-2
zoning type for the site.  Ed Reeve questioned what HR-2 zoning means with Mr. Malinski
stating that HR-2 zoning allows a hig her density residential development type, and that the area
is proposed to be zoned L R-2 and MR-2 (for single family and twin h omes) and P (public) for a
new school.  Patti S chmidt, property owner, indicating she was also speaking on behalf of other
homeowners at The Pointe, questioned Guardian’s development plans for the area.  Mr. Malinski
reiterated the pr oposed zoning ty pes and B rad Emmons, AVI , agent for t he applicant, provided
information, pursuant to a replat of the area, on the estimated number of single family lots, twin
home lots, lot s to be utilized for  the g reenway extension, l ots for the ne w school, and
access/easement and unbuildable ( due to size) lots.  Mr. Coll ins moved to acknowle dge receipt
of the Preliminary  Plat with st aff rec ommendations #1 throug h 7, second ed by Mr. Br own.
Discussion followed on prope rty maintenanc e and deve loper mana gement conc erns that ha d
been raised at the Public Services Committee meeting during pas t developments at The Pointe
which have  aff ected residents in the a rea (i.e.  blowing de bris, dust, weeds, de tention ponds
maintenance issues, etc .).  Upon inquiry , Mr. Malin ski advised some fa ctors ca n not be
controlled by the builder (re: wind) and that communication of concerns has been shared with
the construction manager an d that the Company was open to recommendations to h elp mitigate
the issues.  Mr. Emmons advised construc tion documents will be review ed and that dust factors
will a lso be  re viewed with D EQ, a nd ind icated h is b elief a  ma intenance pla n c an b e pu t in to
place per his conversation with the construction manager.  Upon inquiry regarding a letter sent to
the deve loper fr om Weed and Pest conc erning Canadian Thistle g rowing in the are a, Mr.
Emmons stated the construc tion manager advised him that he is addre ssing the issue w ith the
control district.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
[CA] Agreement b etween th e City  of  Che yenne, Office of  Yo uth Al ternatives, a nd L aramie
County Sc hool D istrict N o. 1,  fo r f amily c ounseling fo r s chool refe rred s tudents/families.
Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (r evenue to the City  in the amount of $153,170.0 0).
(#5589) 
[CA] Agreement b etween th e City  of  Che yenne, O ffice of Youth A lternatives, a nd L aramie
County School District No. 1, for c ounseling services to elementary and secondary age children
with disabilities on Individual Education Plans.  Motion (per Con sent Agenda) carried (revenue
to the City in the amount of $15,020.00).  (#5590)
 
[CA] Lease Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne and State of Wy oming f or par king
services in the Cox  Parking  Structure.  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) ca rried ( revenue to the
City, two year agreement, in the amount of $90,720.00).  (#5591) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for
Animal Shelter Services -- referred to Finance Committee.

[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for
Animal Control Services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Se rvices A greement/Contract be tween Ci ty of  Che yenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Department and S& S Builders, I nc., for building improveme nts at the Pioneer Par k
Center, 1331 Talbot Court, Cheyenne, WY (2007-2010 1% Optional Sales Tax and CDBG g rant
funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne a nd Fr ontier Refining , I nc., desig nating
Frontier Refining Inc., as the title sponsor of the annual Superday event for 2011, 2012 and 2013
-- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement betwee n the Cit y of Cheyenne a nd Sprint Com munications Company L .P.,
for limited us e of t he Public Right-Of  -Way  for Te lecommunications Cable a nd Fa cilities --
referred to Finance Committee.
Contract Modifica tion #1 to C ontract #5575 betwee n the Ci ty of Chey enne a nd J TL
Group d/b/a Knife River for additional quantities of asphalt and flagging hours for Dell Range
Boulevard re surfacing pr oject ( 2007-2010 1 % O ptional Sales Tax).  Ki m Ste vens, Ci ty
Construction office, stated that due to a  miscalculation on t he amount of a sphalt needed for the
project and run-ove r on flag ging hour s, addition al funding is neede d throug h the proposed
modification.  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove in an amount not to ex ceed $294,625.00, seconded
by Mr. Spiker.  Upon inquiry , Ms. Stevens reviewed information on road striping  estimates and
time frame f or striping c ompletion; m iscalculation o f m aterials i nvolving the  pr evious a sphalt
depth and on-site road conditions; milling and laminating layers; traffic flagger hours for safety
and traffic routing; in-house engineering services, and application of a we ar course.  Discussion
included concern with public safety relative to traffic routing and back-ups; whether pre-project
inspections inc luded c omparison w ith the  20 02 De ll Ra nge pr oject w hen p reparing e stimates;
concern with additional costs; age of the intersection at Dell Range and Yellowstone and past
intersection maintenance by WYDOT; number of flaggers per the contractor’s responsibility and
salary of same;  purpose of  a we ar course to improve long evity of the roa d, and initial contrac t
bids coming in lower than the engineer’s estimate.  Vicki Nemecek,  Assistant Director of Public
Works, advised $2.5 mil lion was set aside f or the proje ct and that ther e is sufficie nt money
remaining in the line item to cov er the contract modification.  Ms. Stevens explained the nee d
for a dditional flag ging hour s and stated the f laggers a re pr ovided by  sub-contra ct under  the
contractor and they are not City employees.  Comments followed on how well overall the project
has flowed during the course of construction.  Doug Vetter, City Engineer, advised it is difficult
to corre ctly estimate quantities when a dditional needs are disc overed during  a proje ct; that
flagging costs are also very difficult to p roject, and that public safety is a  priority.  Co mments
followed on how a  projec t is bi d, materia l estimates, sug gestion of che cking into the State’s
construction process, and a dvantages/disadvantages of utilizi ng staff e stimates for construc tion
projects.  Ms. S tevens indica ted the proje ct will hopefully  be complete d October  9 .  Motionth
carried. Vo ting “ yes” – a ll m embers of  the  g overning bo dy wi th t he exception of  Ms.  Ca se
voting “no”.   (#5575)
[CA] Contract Modification # 4 to Contract #5321 be tween the City of Chey enne and Recco,
Inc. d /b/a F ive-R C o., f or a dditional w ork a nd a menities a t t he C heyenne Y outh A ctivity &
Community Center, located in David R. Romero South Chey enne Community Park (Community
Facility Fe es).  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) carried (amount not to ex ceed $16,354.91).
(#5321)
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #5447 between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie
County Community Partnership to change the name of contracting agency from Laramie County
Community Partnership to Connection Corner -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Consideration of B id #M-1-11 for  fur nishing bulk " Ice Control Product"  to the City  of
Cheyenne Public Works Depa rtment for use  on city  streets (2007- 2010 1% Sales Ta x).  Mr.
Brown mov ed to  a ccept t he bid  fr om D esert Mo untain C orp., Riverton, in  a n a mount n ot t o
exceed $330,000.00, se conded by Mr. Pierson. Discussion included c oncern that the ice slice r
product is not environmenta lly friendly ; o ther bidder s, including the  lowest bid rec eived, not
meeting product specifications, and suggestion that other types of products be researched.  Vicki
Nemecek, Assistant Direc tor of Public Works, ex plained that bid spec ifications provide a le vel
playing field for vendors and clarified the low bidder did not meet spec ifications.  She indicated
staff is open to c hanging product specifications if a pr oduct meets the City’s needs, and stated a
request has been made to other bidders to sell a semi-truckload of their material/product to the
City for co mparison testing.  Comments followed in support of te sting other products.  Motion
carried.  Vo ting “ yes” – a ll m embers of  the  g overning bo dy wi th t he ex ception of  Ms.  Ca se
voting “no”.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-8-11 for furnishing  two new 2010/2011 diese l powered trucks
to the City of Cheyenne Public Works Department for use by the Sanitation Division (So lid
Waste Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Transfer o f o wnership fo r a  re tail l iquor license application fi led wi th t he C ity Clerk's
Office for Lambousis Revocable Trust d/b/a The Ma yflower, 112 W. 17th S t., Cheyenne, WY.
(License curr ently held by  Be drock Sea food, I nc. d/b /a The  May flower, 112 W. 17th S t.,
Cheyenne, WY.)  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Announcement was made of Public Meetings to be held October 4, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. and
October 5, 2010 at 12:00 p.m. in Ci ty Council Chambers for a  presentation of a summary of the
completed Cheyenne Metropolitan Area Pedestrian Plan and Safe Routes to School Plan by Alta
Planning & Design, project consultant.
Under other business:
Donn Edmunds advised he was speaking on behalf of himself and other county residents
who live within a one mile radius of City limits to express opposition to City Council’s one mile
jurisdictional authority (re: approval of plat s), indicating the g roup may check into whether the
authority is u nconstitutional.  H e c ited e xamples o f d evelopment c oncerns e ast o f t he City in
support of his statements.
Ms. Case expressed c oncerns with pas t annexation actions, some involving issues unde r
the 201 agreement, and stated her support of the City being a good neighbor to county residents.
She commented on t he Consent Agenda process relative to limited discussion opportuniti es, and
suggested that the Committee of the Whole be reimplemented.
There being  no further  business to com e before the  g overning body , Mayor Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 7:55 p.m. 
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 8, 2010 