MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-10-11 | CLIP_ID: 177 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 177

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
October 11, 2010
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were : MAYOR - Ri chard L . Kay sen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Ms. Br oyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne (ar riving at
6:04 p.m. following the vote  on Consent Ag enda), Mr. Spiker and Mr . Valdez. Absent: Mr.
Brown and Mr. Pierson.  Also pre sent: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk; Ba rb Dorr, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no
separate discussion on these  items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Valdez, and pursuant to
support received by  Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash, ag enda item #15( c) w as re moved from the
Consent Agenda. Mr. Collins moved to approve  remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on September 27, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouche rs Meeting of the Gover ning Body on October  4, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valde z moved to approve pa yment of vouche rs a s presented, sec onded by  Mr.
Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established
and Section 17.08.040 Chey enne city map of the Chey enne City Code, by  changing the zoning
classification from CB Community Business District to HI Heavy Industrial District for Lots 8 &
9, Bloc k 1, Chey enne B usiness Parkway , First Filing, Cheyenne, Wy oming ( located a t the
northeast corner  of the interse ction of Prog ress Circle  and Campstool Road).”  Repor ting f or
Public Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve on third a nd final re ading, seconded
by Mr. Spiker.  Ms. Case called a point of order due to a quorum not being present at the Public
Services Committee meeting.  Upon inquiry from Mayor Kaysen, Ms. Case verified the purpose
of her point of order  was based on her position that a quorum of the Public Services Committee
was not present at the time the meeting was scheduled to begin, nor when the meeting was called
to order at a later time (City Clerk’s note:  Mee ting scheduled to begin at 12:00 p.m. on Oct . 5,
2010 did not convene until 1 2:16 p.m.), and that thre e members constitutes a quorum.  May or
Kaysen confirmed the Committee meeting  was called to order later than the sc heduled time and
that three Council members were present, and requested Dan White, City Attorney, provide his
opinion on the issue of whether a quorum was present at the meeting.  Mr. White advised he had
reviewed some standard policies of the City Council adopted in 2002 and that one policy relates
to when a quorum is not present at the time a standing  committee of the City Council meets.  He
stated the policy  pro vides that the Council’s executive assistant has the option of c ontacting
other City Council members and r equesting their attenda nce at the meeting in the a bsence of a
committee member  in order to ha ve a quor um present.  He  noted t his was the situation that
occurred a t the Public Services Committ ee m eeting a nd that Mr. Spiker wa s contac ted and
requested to attend the mee ting a t which time Mr. Collins and Dr. Rinne wer e pre sent.  Mr.
White stated his belief  that th e policy also provides that the Council member  who then attends
the standing  committee meeting  has the rig ht to vote on any  pendi ng matters bef ore the
committee.  He expressed his legal opinion that there was a quorum present at the time the
meeting commenced, however, there was not a quor um at 12:00 p.m., the time the meeting  was
scheduled, a nd a dvised, un der R obert’s Rul es o f O rder, tha t th e Ma yor ha s the  right to sta te
whether t he po int of  or der i s w ell t aken o r n ot w ell t aken, or  the  Ma yor c an a llow t he City
Council itself to rule on the point of order if the Mayor feels there is doubt regarding the matter.
He further advised if th e matter is submitted to a vote of the City  Council itself, the question
might be whether the Council rejects the recommendations of the Public Service s Committee on
agenda i tems a s r eported b y M r. C ollins.  In a ddition, s ince s tanding c ommittees a re o nly a
recommending bo dy, e ven if  City  Cou ncil c hooses to  re ject th e re commendations, M r. Whit e
expressed his belief that the City Council could proceed to consider the agenda matters.  During
further explanation on the point of order tha t she raised, Ms. Case referenced a previous incident
in 2008 occur ring at a standing  committee meeting involving a Counc il member, who wa s not
assigned as a member of the committee, who requested to be par t of the committee a nd was not
allowed to  pa rticipate in t he c ommittee members’ d iscussion o r v ote.  Sh e no ted th e City
requested and pa id for leg al research and a n opinion on the issue from a loca l attorney at the
time, and provided Mr . White with a c opy of the opinion .  Following review of the opinion and
upon rec eiving additional information from Ms. Case on c ircumstances involv ed in the 2008
incident, Mr. White stated  the pre vious 2008 situation appe ared to be slightly  different as the
opinion addre sses a for mer membe r of Council, who wa s not an assig ned member  of the
committee, appearing at the committee mee ting a nd wishing to be  involved in Comm ittee
members’ debate and voting, and that the current issue being discussed pertained to a Council
member being contacted and requested to attend a Committee meeting for purposes of a quorum
who then, under  the Cou ncil’s policy, is allowed to deba te and vote.  F urther information was
provided by Ms. Case and inc luded recitation of the outside leg al counsel’s interpretation of the
phrase “ele cted of ficial” contained in the opinion and involving City  Code Section 2.04.145.
Following c omments b y o ther m embers o f C ity C ouncil r elative t o s tanding c ommittees’
composition invol ving a  quo rum, committee member  assig nments and purpose  of the 2008
outside legal opinion, Mr. Whi te reiterated his positi on that the 2008 leg al opinion dealt with a
separate issue a nd his opinion that a quorum was pr esent a t the Public Services Committ ee
meeting in question.  L inda Allard, a gent for E choStar, req uested the g overning body  move
forward with the vote on the zone change ordinance on third reading, whether with or without, if
allowed, a  rec ognized recommenda tion from the Public Services Committee meeting .  Upon
inquiry as to whether postponement of the item for two weeks would affect EchoStar’s project,
she advised a  two wee k post ponement, at this tim e, would not af fect their curr ent plans for
development.  Comments followed on those Public Service s Committee members present at the
scheduled time of the meeting, Robert’s Rules of Order and recommendations from a committee,
and re ason for the committee meeting  starting  at a time later  than sche duled.  May or Ka ysen
recognized and revie wed the inf ormation that had be en presented and discussed re lative to t he
point of order that had been raised, and ruled the point of order was not well taken and would not
be a ccepted.  Com ments we re made in appreciation o f E choStar’s p resence in C heyenne, it s
commitment to the community  and support for  its expansion plans, and zoning uses allowed for
the property pursuant to information conta ined in the staff  report referencing past zoning action
for a  pr oposed u se a s a n e arly c hildhood c enter t hat ha s n ot m oved f orward in de velopment.
James Perot McNeil spoke in favor of discussing the item at a nother Public Services Committee
meeting to eliminate any  procedural confusion with Mayor Kaysen clarifying the ordinance ha d
been pr eviously revie wed a t tw o committee and two City  Council meeting s.  Ms. Allard
requested Council move forwa rd with approva l of the ordinanc e.  Comment followed re garding
the prior zone change from HI to CB and the r eason for changing it back to an HI zone.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#3908)
“An Ordinance creating Chapter 17.116.151 of Title 17, Zoning, of the Cheyenne City
Code pertaining to wat er hauler truck tempora ry loading sites.” Matt Ashby , Planning Ser vices
Director, reviewed the purpose of the or dinance in conjunction with rec ent oil exploration work
and staff ’s initial belief that timeliness for the or dinance t o enac t emerg ency-type re gulations
was ne eded, and stated re cently curr ent location options had bee n made a vailable f or wa ter
haulers to acc ess wate r which ha s dimini shed the immediac y to act upon t he ordinance.  He
requested the item be withdra wn from the agenda to allow for a he aring process and review and
recommendation by the Planning Commission, indicating following that process the item may be
re-introduced on the  ag enda.  D ale Steenbe rgen, Dire ctor, Chey enne Cha mber of Commerc e,
speaking on behalf of the Chamber and LEADS, expressed concern with the proposed ordinance
section re lating to f ees to be  assessed to wa ter ha uler c ompanies.  He  reque sted as the item
moves forward in the process that review be made relative to equitable fees that may be imposed
on water hauler companies vs. other businesses contributing to traffic in the communi ty.  Mayor
Kaysen explained the agenda and meeting process if the item were withdrawn and re-introduced
at a later date following a hearing and recommendation by the Planning Commission.  Reporting
for Finance Committee, Mr. Va ldez moved to approve on se cond reading.  Motion to approve
died due to lack of a second to the motion.
“A Resolution deter mining that conditions for annexation required by  Wyo. Stat. §15-1-
402 exist for the pr operty described as a parcel of land being  situated in the SW 1/4 of Section
25, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M ., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located nor th of Pershingth
Boulevard, b etween Wh itney Roa d a nd Chr istensen Ro ad).”  Mr . Co llins mov ed to  a dopt,
seconded by Mr. Sp iker. Ms. Case ca lled a point of orde r due to a  quorum not being  present at
the Public Services Committee meeting , explaining the re placement Council person who
participated in the meeting  was not a committee member, a nd requesting the r ecommendation
from the committee on the agenda item not be accepted and that the governing body  move
forward on the item without a committee recommendation. Upon inquiry by Mayor Kaysen, Ms.
Case noted that he r comments on the previous point of order she  raised e arlier in the meeting
also pertained to the current point of order.  Mayor Kaysen ruled the point of order was not well
taken ba sed upon informa tion provided and discussion held on the pr evious point of orde r.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#5245)
[CA] “A R esolution re pealing Re solution # 5164; c reating a  ne w r esolution e stablishing g olf
course u ser f ees a nd c ategories f or t he A irport G olf C ourse a nd K ingham P rairie V iew G olf
Course; and providing  for the division of re venues from said fees to be de posited between the
General and Capital Improvement Funds.”  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5246)
[CA] “A Resolution re -appropriating the fiscal year 2011 budget of the City of C heyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . 16-4- 112 & 16- 4-113” - - re ferred to F inance Commi ttee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Ma yor and the  City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for T eton
Lumber, a replat of vacated portions of Lots 3, 4 & 5, B lock 29; and Lots 1 & 2, B lock 30; and
McComb Avenue, O riginal City  of Chey enne; a nd a portion of L ot 3, Section 36, T.14N.,
R.67W., 6th P.M., C heyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the inter section of
Cribbon Avenue and W. 2 7th Street)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (s ponsor - M s.
Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Ma yor and the  City  Clerk to sign a  Final P lat for The
Bluffs, 8th Filing, situated in a portion of the SW¼ NW¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.6 6W., 6th
P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Ogden Road, between Apache Street
and Plain View Road)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for
Animal Shelter Services.  Rick Collard, Executive Director, Cheyenne Animal Shelter, stated the
Animal Shelter B oard of  Direc tors wer e aw are of and are willing to acc ept the same  12.2%
funding cut made to other  City  depar tments and ag encies due to the ec onomic situ ation. Mr.
Valdez moved to appr ove, seconded by Mr. Spiker. Mr. Va ldez moved to postpone to Oct. 25,
2010, s econded b y M r. S piker.  I t w as c larified t he r eason f or t he p ostponement w as be cause
there was no representative present to discuss the item at Finance Committee.  Upon inquiry, Mr.
Collard noted that use of f unding f rom their F oundation may  be utiliz ed to supplement the
reduced funding level.  Motion t o postpone failed.  V oting “no” – all member s of the g overning
body present.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
(#5596)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for
Animal Control Services.  Rick Collard, Executive Dire ctor, Cheyenne Animal Shelter, stated
the Animal Shelter B oard of Directors were aware of and a re willing to accept the same  12.2%
funding cut made to other  City departments and ag encies due to the ec onomic situation.  Mr.
Valdez moved to appr ove, seconded by Mr. Spik er.  Mr. Valdez moved to postpone to Oct. 25,
2010, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting  “no” – a ll members of the
governing body  prese nt.  Upon inquiry , it was ad vised the re duced f unding a mount was
approximately $71,000 from the control side.  Mr. Collard clarified he mis-stated this earlier and
advised he  fee ls they can c ontinue to provide ade quate c ontrol service s, noting they  are  now
fully sta ffed aft er being sh ort-handed f or se veral mo nths a nd a lso no ting fu nding a vailable
through the 5  penny  sales tax. Com ment foll owed r egarding response  to calls by  Animalth
Control o fficers v s. p olice o fficers w ith M r. Co llard p roviding in formation o n n on-emergency
vs. emergency calls re lative to response  involving police of ficers.  Upon inqui ry, Mr. Collard
explained the agreement term is from Jul y 1, 2010 throug h June 30, 2011 and that the item was
late being placed on the Council agenda due to a lot of discussion on the proposed agreement,
and ve rified th e She lter h as n ot h ad a  re duction in  fu nding fr om t he County’s po rtion. M ain
motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” – a ll members of the g overning body  prese nt w ith Dr. Rinne
voting “no”.  (#5597)
Professional Se rvices A greement/Contract be tween Ci ty of  Che yenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Department and S& S Builders, I nc., for building improveme nts at the Pioneer Par k
Center, 1331 Talbot Court, Cheyenne, WY (2007-2010 1% Optional Sales Tax and CDBG g rant
funds).  T odd Feezer, Asst. Director, Parks and Recreation, explained the agreement/contract is
to provide repairs to ext end the life  of the fa cility and re quested a  proposed substitute be
approved as he ina dvertently omitted Federal language in the initial document which is re quired
due to C DBG g rant f unds.  H e fu rther e xplained F ederal requirements in volving the  Da vis-
Bacon Act and amount of wa ges that must be paid for  labor provide d under the  contract, and
stated this require ment increases the tot al amount of the a greement/contract by $2,495.00. Mr.
Valdez moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $77,380.00, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mr.
Valdez moved to amend by  substitut e, sec onded by  Mr. Collins. M ayor Ka ysen clarified the
amendment would include the additional $2,495.00 for a total amount of $79,875.00.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting  “yes” – a ll members of the g overning body prese nt.  Main motion as
amended b y su bstitute c arried.  Vot ing “y es” – a ll m embers of  the  g overning bo dy pr esent.
(#5598)
[CA] Agreement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Fr ontier Refining , I nc., desig nating
Frontier Refining Inc. as the title sponsor of the annual Superday event for 2011, 2012 and 2013.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5599)
[CA] Agreement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Sprint Comm unications Company L .P.,
for limited use of the public r ight-of-way for Telecommunications Cable and. Facilities.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5600)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie    
County, for juvenile probation services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between t he City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and the State  of
Wyoming, Department of Family Services, for intensive support mentoring program for youth in
the juvenile court system -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Employment contract between the Cheyenne Police Department and Alicia ‘Lisa’ Scholz
for suicide  and substance abuse prevention prog ram mana gement ser vices (Core  Prevention
Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laura Chalstrom, Beth Chalstrom
and Paul Guy ot, d/b/a Putt  Hutt, for pre mises used as a miniature  golf course in L ions Park --
referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Employment contract between the City of Cheyenne and  J essica Fr iis fo r education
services at the Paul Smith Children's Village at Cheyenne Botanic Gardens -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #5447 (City Clerk note: Correct Contract # is 5446)
between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County Community Partnership to change the name
of contra cting ag ency fro m L aramie County  Communi ty Partnership to Connection Corner .
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5446)
[CA] Contract Modifica tion #2 to C ontract #556 3 between the City of Cheyenne a nd JTL
Group, Inc.d/b/a Knife  River for the  construction of the  2009 Chey enne T ransit Prog ram B us
Stop Upgr ades Projec t (Fe deral Transporta tion Adminis tration/American Recove ry and
Reinvestment Act funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-8-11 for f urnishing two ne w 2010/2011 diesel powe red trucks
to t he City  of  Che yenne Pub lic Wor ks Department f or us e by  the  Sa nitation D ivision ( Solid
Waste Fund) .  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed $243,426.00,
Peterbilt of Wyoming).  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-4-11 for Surplus Sale of fiv e rep roduction M cClellan Early
1900's Model saddles fr om the City  of Chey enne P olice Department – ref erred to Fina nce
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-11-11 for f urnishing a mmunition for the Police D epartment
submitted by BVAC, Inc., Stevensville, MT, and GT Distributors, Inc., Austin, TX – referred to
Finance Committee. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held October 25, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers  for a transfer of owne rship for a  restaur ant liquor license a pplication
filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Soo Hyun Choi, LLC d/b/a Tokyo Bowl, 1829 Dell Range
Boulevard, Cheyenne, WY. (License currently held by Iron Chefs, Inc. d/b/a Tokyo Bowl, 1829
Dell Range Boulevard, Cheyenne, WY.)
 Announcement w as ma de o f the appointment of Michael Godown t o th e Tourism
Promotion J oint Powers Boa rd, and Ti m Thorson to the City -County Hea lth Boar d, to be
confirmed October  25, 2010.  Under  o ther business and upon inquiry  rela tive to whether  Mr.
Thorson, a candidate running for an elected position involving the Board’s jurisdiction, would be
able to ser ve on the B oard if e lected, Ma yor Ka ysen expressed his belief  that,  if elected, the
individual may need to resign from the Board.
Announcement was made  of the a ppointment of Kadi Davis, I an Dome, Jay  Eg an-
Wright, Karolyn Hopfensperger, Dean Jackson, John Matsen, Bobby McGarry, Monica Mencer,
McKinzea Olsen, Jacob Peterson Gary Sayler, Isaiah Sims, Josh Walker, and  Sabrina Westover
to the Mayor’s Youth Council, to be confirmed October 25, 2010.
Under other business:
 Amy Threewitt, commented on the loss of a dow ntown grocery store since the Safeway
Store was sold and the  burden to lo w income a nd elderly individuals who live in the area  who
depended on the store.  She requested review of a  possible direct tra nsit bus route to gr ocery
stores on Saturday s.  J ames Perot Mc Neil ag reed with the need to ha ve a downtown g rocery
store and note d his property  conce rns in the downtow n area.  Jan Nelson-Schroll questioned
whether t here were any initiatives or pending  information on ef forts towar d another  g rocery
store in t he do wntown a rea.  M ayor Ka ysen a dvised staff has b een in  c ommunications wi th
parties interested in the topic and that review will be made with regard to transit bus services to
grocery stores on Saturday s, stating ther e is curr ently a daily  route to g rocery stores during the
week.  Comment was made in support of transit services to groceries stores on a regular basis.
Mayor Kaysen expressed appreciation to F rontier Refining, Inc. for their c ontinued
funding support as title sponsor of the City’s Superday event for years 2011-2013.
There being  no further  bu siness to come bef ore the  g overning body , Mayor Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 7:16 p.m. 
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 20, 2010