MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-10-25 | CLIP_ID: 179 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 179

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
October 25, 2010
The Governing Body of the City  of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date be ginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Ms. B royles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Pierson,
and Mr. Spiker. Absent:  Mr . Valdez.  A lso present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items l isted with the desig nation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member  of the g overning body so reque sts and support by  two
other members is r eceived.  An y item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.) Mr. Collins m oved to appr ove Consent Ag enda items, sec onded
by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 11, 2010.  M otion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body on October 18, 2010.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown moved to approve pa yment of vouche rs as pre sented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen, City Treasurer Barb Dorr and Planning Services Director Matt Ashby
provided infor mation available pe rtaining to a purc hase of  an Apple iPad, iTune s for softwa re
applications, case, and protection plan in the amount of $691.01 included in a voucher payable to
VISA/UMB.  It w as noted the purchase was made by the Metropolitan Planning Or ganization
(MPO) with federal funding and that the equipment, which provides more flexibility and portability
than a  la ptop c omputer, and software wi ll b e uti lized f or the  MPO  on -site Em ployment D ata
Collection Project.  Dr. Rinne move d to divide the question to allow for sepa rate action on the
purchase of the iTunes component in the amount of $54.01, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carrie d.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone action on
the pay ment of $54.01 for iTunes for one  wee k (to Nov. 1, 2010), se conded by  Ms. Ash.
Comments followed regarding the purpose of the iPad purchase and what applications software was
acquired through iTunes.  Ms. Dorr advised of payment time frame options relative to the vendor’s
invoice due date, and Mr. Ashby clarified that he had confirmed with the MPO Director that the
programs downloaded via iTunes involved word processing, spreadsheets a nd p resentation
programs.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting  “yes” – Ms. Ash, Dr . Rinne and Mr. Spiker.  Voting
“no” – Mr . Br own, M s. Br oyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pi erson, a nd May or Ka ysen.  Mr.
Collins moved to app rove payment of the Apple iTunes portion of the pur chase order, seconded by
Mr. Brown. Discussion followed on the purpose a nd necessity of purchasing an iPad and affiliated
software items.  Motion to approve carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr.
Collins, Mr. Pierson, and May or Ka ysen.  Voting  “no” – Ms. Ash, D r. Rinne and Mr. Spiker .
Discussion on remaining vouchers followed.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to Service
First Carpet Cleaning ($450.00), carpet cleaning at Taco John’s Event Center (TJEC) due to smoke
damage resulting from the fire at the Hitching Post Inn and whether the cost might be recoverable
through insurance, City Attorney Dan White advised a claim could be asserted and stated the matter
is being researched with regard to potential c overage through the Hitching Post’s insurance carrier.
Upon inquiry  whether  any  other da mage wa s incurred  due to the fire, Rick Par ish, Parks and
Recreation Director, advised there was a lot of external debr is due to flooding in the pa rking lot
from fire extinguishing efforts and indicated he had compiled a list and submitt ed it to the May or
for possible recouping of cle an-up expenses through insurance. Regarding inquiry on a re fund for
products ordered f rom Howies that were never shipped by the company, Ms. Dorr explained this
was a  pre- charge expense plac ed on a City  cre dit purchasing  ca rd and since the item was not
received the c ompany issued a cr edit in the amount of $126.67.  Motion to approve r emaining
vouchers carried. Voting “yes” – a ll members of the g overning body present with the exception of
Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring for a  transfer of owne rship for a  restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Soo Hyun Choi, LLC d/b/a Tokyo Bowl,
1829 De ll Ra nge B oulevard, Ch eyenne, WY . ( License c urrently he ld b y I ron Ch efs, Inc. d/b /a
Tokyo Bow l, 18 29 Dell Range B oulevard, Chey enne, WY.)  U pon inquiry , City  Clerk Carol
Intlekofer clar ified new  owner s of the business ar e re questing the tra nsfer of owne rship and
explained there is no cha nge to the existi ng alcoh ol dispensing r oom.  There  being  no further
comments or discussion and purpose  of the public he aring having been me t, Mayor Kaysen closed
the hearing and referred the application to the Finance Committee.
“An Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated
in t he SW1/4 of Section 2 5, T. 14N., R. 66W., 6th  P.M ., L aramie Cou nty, Wy oming (g enerally
located north of Pershing Boulevard, between Whitney Road and Christensen Road)” -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
“A Resolu tion re-appropriating the  fiscal y ear 2011 budg et of the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S. 16-4-112 & 16-4-113.” Upon query to members of the
governing body by Mayor Kaysen regarding a brief statement he wished to make c oncerning the
re-appropriation, and there  being no o bjection raised, Mayor Kaysen provided inf ormation on a
proposed employ ee r ecognition pay ment included in the re -appropriation.  He e xplained the
intent was to recognize full-time employees for their efforts this past calendar year and stated the
payment was not intended to  include the May or or membe rs of the g overning body . May or
Kaysen noted other items included in the proposed r e-appropriation and concluded his statement
by indicating he woul d have no objection if the e mployee recognition payment was not par t of
the re-appropriation.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by
Mr. Pierson.  Mr. B rown moved to a mend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mr. Br own
clarified the substitute removes the line item for the employee recognition payment, which will
change the total re-appropriation amount.  Planning Ser vices Director Matt Ashby, Public Works
Director Jim El ias, City  Tr easurer B arb Do rr a nd Ma yor Ka ysen p rovided information in
response to inquiry and discussion that included the following topics: Request for an additional
planner position in the Building/Development Office to assist with i ncreased workload involving
building pe rmits a nd sit e pla ns; st aff re ductions, r eorganization a nd re assignment o f d uties in
several City  de partments du e to t he re duction in  wo rkforce a nd vo luntary e arly re tirements
occurring earlier in the y ear; effect of re duced staffing levels on customer  service, maintenance
of fleet vehicles and equipment (safety) and high volume areas (sanitation, street and alley); part-
time employment services being received by the Public Wor ks Department by a for mer director
of the department; staff reassignments made to assist with coverage; outsourcing of certain Flee t
Maintenance re pair ser vices a nd chang es to the di vision’s preve ntative vehicle s/equipment
maintenance sche dules; re- appropriation line item involvi ng juvenile justice g rants; staff ing
levels and review of same prior to a nd during the Fiscal Year 2011-2012 budget process; time
frame involved in the def erred $1,000,000 pay ment to the Boa rd of Public Utilit ies, and
administrative process utilized when determining whether to fill a vacated staff position.  Motion
to amend ca rried.  V oting “y es” –  a ll members of the g overning body  prese nt. Additional
comment of concern was made regarding staffing levels.  Main motion as amended by substitute
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#5247)
“A Resolution authorizing the Ma yor and the  Ci ty Clerk to sign a F inal Plat for Teton
Lumber, a replat of vacated portions of Lots 3, 4 & 5, Block 29; and Lots 1 & 2, Block 30; and
McComb Avenue, O riginal City of Chey enne; a nd a portion of L ot 3, Section 36, T.14N.,
R.67W., 6th P.M., C heyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwe st corner of the interse ction of
Cribbon Avenue a nd W. 27th S treet).”  Reporting f or Pub lic Se rvices Co mmittee, M s. As h
moved to adopt with staff r ecommendations #1 throug h 4, seconde d by  Mr. Collins. M otion
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#5248)
“A Resolution authorizing the M ayor and the City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for T he
Bluffs, 8th Filing, situated in a portion of the SW¼ N W¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W ., 6th
P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and a djacent to Ogden Road, between Apache Street
and Pla in V iew R oad).”  Ke lly Ha fner, B enchmark En gineers, a dvised h e wa s in volved w ith
investigating drainage issues for  the dev eloper, United Western Corpora tion, affiliated with the
project, and submitted a map diag ram (on f ile with City Clerk’s off ice) depicting  a propose d
regional detention fa cility for the a rea.  Mr. Haf ner referenced recommendations relative to the
preliminary plat; reviewed areas contained in the map diagram, and proposed consideration of a
regional drainage detention facility vs. small pocket detention area(s).  He  discussed constraints
of the area based on his research of drainage flow direction, topography and run-off volumes, and
the dif ficulty of  e xtending Pla inview R oad to  Con verse Av e. d ue to d rainage flows and City
water main issues; ex plained logistics involving a r egional facility vs. multiple smaller detention
ponds, and noted a ffiliated maintenance responsibility issues.  Discussion included the following
topics:  Potential interim detention lot, depicted a s L ot 10, Block 11 on the  plat map, and
developer c onstruction o ptions; r un-off v olumes d raining i nto t he C ity s torm s ewer s ystem;
issues a nd c oncerns in volving the pr oposed re gional de tention fa cility, w hich w ould c urrently
include prope rty in the county  (not within Cit y limit s) over  small pocket ar eas; phy sical
characteristics of L ot 10, Block 11; improveme nts to drainage sy stem, and extension of
Plainview Road to Converse Ave.  Frank Cole, United Western Corporation, developer, provided
information on water drainage in the area; cited other development projects involving drainage
issues, and stated a s development to the north a dvances the intent would be for  th e area to be
annexed.  Doug  Vetter, City Engineer, stated  the recommendation of de velopment staff is that
Lot 10, Block 11 be reserved for drainage on the final plat; not necessarily dedicated as drainage.
He noted pote ntial concerns with the location and d esign of the regional facility, and pre clusion
of the extension of Plainview Road which could affect the area’s transportation network.  Ms.
Ash moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Collins.  M s. Ash moved to postpone for two weeks (to
Nov. 8, 2010), sec onded by  Mr. Collins. I t was advised the  postponem ent would allow for
continuing discussion on future road connectivity and drainage.  Co mments followed regarding
drainage and Plainview Roa d extension concerns; re serve vs. dedica te L ot 10, Block 11 f or
drainage; detention area(s) maintenance responsibility, and small local detention areas generally.
Upon inquiry, Ci ty Attorney Dan Wh ite explained t he recommendation noted by Mr. Vetter is
being reque sted to be plac ed on the plat to ensur e dra inage issues for  this specific plat a re
addressed by reserving the lot for detention purposes.  He added that the developer may desire to
retain the lot in private ownership and that the City’s intent is to reserve the lot, not dedicate it to
the City.  Mr. Cole stated his advoc acy for a   regional detention pond to be maintaine d by the
City, and noted liability  risks to property  owners involving owne rship of small detention pond
areas.  He spoke in opposition to t he staff recommendation to “tag” Lot 10, Block 11 as reserved
and stated his intention is not to even use L ot 10 for drainage. Comments followed in support of
regional detention ponds, conne ctivity of ea st-west roads for future use, loc al elementary school
traffic, and problems with incremental developments.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting  “yes” –
Dr. Rinne.  Voting “no” – Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson,
Mr. Spiker and Mayor Kaysen.  Mr. Collins moved to amend to include staff  recommendation
#1, seconde d by Mr. B rown, whic h rea ds: “I ndicate Lot 10, Bloc k 11 as an a rea rese rved f or
storm water detention on final plat map”.  Discussion followed on a regional detention facility vs.
interim local detention ponds; potential route alternatives to provide connector street to Converse
Ave.; physical natural depth of Lot 10, Block 11 relative to drainage use; proximity of dete ntion
facility/pond(s) to an elementary school in the area and concerns with traffic and safety of
students; use of L ot 10, Block 11 f or drainage during plat development; nee d for f uture
discussion regarding the regional detention facility, and unattractiveness of local detention areas.
During discussion on alternate routes to extend street traffic to Converse Ave., Mr. Cole provided
information concerning the Water Tank Bluff street area.  U pon inquiry, Mr. Hafner, provided
information on the depth of Lot 10, Block 11, and size of the proposed regional detention facility,
stating it w ould be a “bare minimal size” wi th a gravity drain system.  M otion to a mend with
staff r ecommendation #1 carr ied.  Voting  “yes” – a ll members of the  governing body prese nt
with the exception of Ms. Ash, Ms. Broy les, Dr. Ri nne and May or Kaysen voting “no”.  U pon
inquiry conce rning whether  a bar rier or  fenc ing of  side slopes of L ot 10, Block 11 would be
installed, Mr. Hafner stated the side slopes do not re quire a barrier, and at this tim e no barrier or
fencing is planned and the area would be open.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes”
– all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen
voting “no”. (#5249)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie    
County, for juvenile probation services. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5603)
[CA] Contract between the City of Chey enne, Office of Youth Alterna tives, and the State of
Wyoming, Department of Family Services, for intensive support mentoring program for youth in
the juvenile court system.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5604)
[CA] Employment contract between the Cheyenne Police Department and Alicia ‘Lisa’ Scholz
for suicide  and subst ance abuse pr evention prog ram mana gement ser vices (Core  Prevention
Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5605)
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Laura Chalstrom, Beth Chalstrom
and Paul Guyot, d/b/a Putt Hutt, for pre mises used as a miniature  golf course in Lions.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5606)
[CA] Employment contract between the City of Cheyenne and J essica F riis for education
services at the Paul Smit h Children' s Villag e at Chey enne B otanic.  Motion (per  Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5607)
[CA] Contract b etween the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division and Wy oming Department of
Health, Aging Division t o provide supportive se rvices to persons 60 y ears or older ( Title III-B
Program Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement/Contract between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning
Organization and Cambridg e Systematics Inc. to provide support for T ransportation Safety Plan
Implementation -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement/Contract between the Che yenne Metropolitan Planning
Organization and Alta Planning +  Desig n to prepa re the  Chey enne Me tropolitan Planning
Organization On Street Bic ycle Plan a nd Greenway Plan Update - - re ferred to F inance
Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement/Contract between the City of Cheyenne on behalf of the
Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization and Felsberg, Holt and Ullevig for South Greeley
Highway Corridor 10% Conceptual Plan -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for city employees health
insurance coverage -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion #2 to C ontract #5563 between the City of Chey enne a nd JTL
Group, Inc.d/b/a Knife  River for the  construction of the 2009 Chey enne T ransit Prog ram B us
Stop Upgr ades Projec t (Fe deral Transportation Administ ration/American Rec overy and
Reinvestment Act funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5563)
[CA] Contract Modification to C ontract #5477 betwee n the City  of Chey enne and Recco, Inc
d/b/a Five- R Co. for fire a larm tamper  switch and fir e sprink ler repa ir work a t the Transf er
Station -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration o f Bid #R-4-11 for Surplus Sale of five reproduction M cClellan Early
1900's Model saddles from the City of Cheyenne Police.  M otion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(revenue to City $1,044.00).
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-11-11 for  furnishing  ammunition for the Police Depa rtment
submitted by BVAC, Inc., Stevensville, MT, and GT Distributors, Inc., Austin, TX.  Motion (per
Consent Ag enda) car ried (B VAC, I nc., Stevensville, MT, $29,424. 81; GT Distributors, I nc.,
Austin, TX, $14,702.00; Total $44,126.81).
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-9-11, for f urnishing one  new r oll-off truc k for the Sanitation
Division (Solid Waste Equipment Lease/Purchase Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-10-11, for f urnishing two ne w packer trucks for the Sanitation
Division (Solid Waste Equipment Lease/Purchase Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
 Appointment of Michael Godown to the Tourism Promotion Joint Powers Board, and Tim
Thorson to the City -County Hea lth Boar d.  Ms. Broy les moved to approve , seconde d b y Mr.
Brown.  Ms.  Broyles moved to divide the question to allow for a separate vote on the
appointment of Tim Thorson, s econded b y Mr . Co llins.  M otion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” – a ll
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote
(Mayoral a ppointment). Ms. Broy les moved to postpone ac tion on the  appointment of Mr.
Thorson for 2 wee ks (to Nov. 8, 2010), sec onded by Mr. Collins.  M ayor Kaysen advised Mr .
Thorson h ad r equested th e po stponement.  Mo tion to  postpone c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” – a ll
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote
(Mayoral appointment).  Main motion to approve the appointment of Michael Godown carried.
Voting “yes” – a ll members of the g overning body present with the exception of May or Kaysen
who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Appointment of Kadi Da vis, Ian Dome, Jay  Egan-Wright, Karolyn Hopfensperger, Dean
Jackson, John Matsen, Bobby McGarry, Monica Mencer,  McKinzea Olsen, Jacob Peterson Gary
Sayler, I saiah Sims, J osh Walker, and  Sabr ina Westover t o the Mayor’s Youth Council. Mr.
Collins moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” – a ll members
of the g overning body present with the exception of May or Kaysen who did  not vote (May oral
appointments).
Announcement was made of the appointment of Greggory Crisp to t he Mayor’s Council
for People with Disabilities, Frank Harris to the  Tourism Promotion Joint Powers Board d/b/a
Visit Chey enne, Ross McKe lvey to the L aramie County  Communi ty J uvenile Servic es Joi nt
Powers B oard, a nd Mel Wil kenfield to the Water Conservation Advisory Commi ttee to be
confirmed November  8, 2010. May or Ka ysen announc ed an a dministrative c orrection to the
agenda it em r elative to  th e p roposed a ppointment o f M r. Wi lkenfield, s tating th e a ppointment
was being withdrawn from t he agenda as approval is not require d by the g overning body.  He
explained Wa ter Con servation A dvisory Com mittee me mbers a re a ppointed p ursuant t o
recommendation from the Board of Public Utilities with approval by the Mayor.
There being  no further  business to c ome before the g overning body , Mayor Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 7:47 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 November 5, 2010