MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-11-08 | CLIP_ID: 181 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 181

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
November 8, 2010
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Che yenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were : MAYOR - Richar d L. Kay sen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker a nd Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the g overning body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There will be no
separate discuss ion on these items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.) Upon request by Ms. Case, and pursuant to
support rec eived by  Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash, ag enda item #12( e) w as re moved from the
Consent Agenda. Mr. Collins moved to approve the remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from  Regular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on October  25, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body on November 1, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. B rown moved to a pprove pa yment of vouchers  as presented, sec onded by  Mr.
Valdez.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
“An Or dinance annexing to the City  of Chey enne, Wy oming, a  p arcel of land be ing
situated in the SW 1/4 of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P .M., L aramie County , Wy oming
(generally located north of Pershing Boulevard, between Whitney Road and Chr istensen Road).”
Reporting fo r P ublic S ervices Committee, M s. As h m oved t o ap prove o n s econd re ading,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established
and Section 17.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Che yenne City Code, by changing the Zoning
Classification from LR-2 Low Density Residential-Developing District to MUB Mixed Use with
Business Emphasis District for a portion of the NW¼NE¼NW¼ of Section 26, T.14N., R.66W.,
6th P.M., C heyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Dell Rang e Boulevard, east of
Van Buren Avenue)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
 
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established
and Section 1 7.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Che yenne City Code, by changing the Zoning
Classification f rom L R-2 L ow De nsity Re sidential-Developing a nd CB  Com munity B usiness
Districts to LR-2, MR-2 Low and Medium Density Residential-Developing and P Public Districts
for the The Pointe, Fifth Filing, A Replat of  Lots 13-25, Block 13; Lots 27-69, Block 14; Lots 1-
35, Block 16; Lots 1-22, Block  17; Lots 1-27, Block 18; Lots 1-32, Bloc k 19; Lots 1-19, Bloc k
20 and Lot 1, Block 21, The Point; and Lots 37-38 and 71, Block 14; The Pointe, Second Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming ( located a t t he southwest cor ner of  the intersec tion of E. Four  Mile and
Powderhouse Roads" -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] "A Resolution adopti ng the Cheyenne Metropolitan Area Pedestrian Plan and Cheyenne
Metropolitan Are a Safe  Routes to School P lan" -- referred to Public Service s Commi ttee
(sponsors - Ms. Ash, Ms. B royles, Mr. B rown, Ms. Case, Mr . Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez). 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division an d W yoming De partment of
Health, Aging Division to provi de supportive services to pe rsons 60 y ears or older ( Title III-B
Program Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5610)
Professional Services Agreement/Contract between the Chey enne Metropolitan Planning
Organization and Cambridge Systematics, Inc. to p rovide support for Transportation Safety Plan
Implementation. Reporting for F inance Committee, Mr. B rown moved to a pprove, seconded by
Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown move d to amend by  substitute, seconded by Mr. Valde z.  I t was noted
the substitute addresses federal funding contract language requirements, and includes Exhibits A,
B and C.  Motion t o amend c arried.  Voting  “yes" – all mem bers of the governing body.  Upon
inquiry reg arding differ ing r ates for  hours of ser vices, Srey oshi Chakraborty , Met ropolitan
Planning Organization, advised diffe rent types of staf f utiliz ed by the consultant have  different
hourly rate s.  Main motion as amended by  substitut e, including  the exhibit s, car ried.  Voting
"yes"  –  all members of the governing body.  (#5611)
Professional Services Agreement/Contract between the Chey enne Metropolitan Planning
Organization and Alta Planning +  Desig n to prepa re the  Chey enne Me tropolitan Planning
Organization On Street Bicycle Plan and Greenway Plan Update.  Mr. B rown moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Valdez. It
was noted th e substitute addresses federal funding contract language requirements, and inc ludes
Exhibits A,  B, and C.  M otion to amend carried.  V oting “yes” – all members of the governing
body.  M ain motion as ame nded by substitute, including the exhibit s, carried.  Voting  “yes”  –
all members of the governing body. (#5612)
Professional Services Agreement/Contract between the City of Cheyenne on behalf of the
Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization and Felsberg, Holt and Ullevig  for South Gre eley
Highway Corridor 10% Conce ptual Plan. Mr. Bro wn moved to approve , seconde d by  Mr.
Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by  substitute, seconded by Mr. Valde z.  I t was noted the
purpose of the substitute is for the same reason as mentioned for the two previous agenda items.
Motion to amend car ried.  Voting “yes”  – a ll members of the g overning body.  Main motion as
amended by substitute, including the exhibits, carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of  the
governing body.  (#5613)
Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for city employees health
insurance coverage. Mr. B rown moved to a pprove, seconded by Mr. Spiker. Upon inquiry , Rich
Wiederspahn, Huma n Resource s Director, provide d information on the staff  I nsurance
Committee review and evaluation process, and explained high medical claims experience during
the past year as well as the new federal health care act have contributed to the 12.6% coverage
cost increase.  He discussed keeping health care premiums and deductible amounts affordable for
employees; diff erent cover age options available  under the  plan, and the eff ect of the fe deral
Affordable Care Act (ACA) on increased provider costs.  Ste ve Goldstone, WINhealth Partners,
advised WINhealth worked with actuaries and industry experts to project estimated increases due
to the impact of the A CA, noting a ny time benef its expand there is some cost involved.  Upon
query, M r. Wie derspahn st ated h e wa s u naware of  wh ether C ity e mployees w ere e ligible to
participate in the State' s health insuranc e prog ram.  Discussion fo llowed and included the
following topics:  Amount of high medic al claims incurr ed within t he past y ear; degree of staff
due dil igence c onducted in  re viewing a nd e valuating a  he alth pla n; lack of seeking pr oposals
from other providers; continuing costs of health care coverage and budgetary con cerns;
percentage of  pr emium c ost pa id b y the  City  vs . e mployees; d eductible/co-pay a mounts;
differences between shelter, silver and gold plans; stress incurred by employees within the past
year due to budgetary reductions; employee wellness (coaching) program and affiliated costs, and
continuing ne ed to re view how to curtail future  cost incre ases.  Thr oughout discussion, Mr.
Wiedersphahn and Mr. Goldstone provided inf ormation available in response to questions.  Barb
Dorr, City Treasurer, advised the e stimated cost of implementing  a we llness/coaching program
for employees last year was $50,000, at which time the City was offered to be included in a pilot
program through WINhealth.  She estimated the curr ent cost to implement  a program would be
double that amount.  Up on further inquiry, Mr. Goldstone clarified that the catastrophic claims
the City  had last y ear would not have be en impacte d by  having  a we llness prog ram. Mr.
Wiederspahn ve rified the Committee did not resea rch pla ns offe red by  other he alth insurance
companies dur ing the  plan re view/renewal proc ess, and state d cata strophic illnesses and
accidents that occurred last year  has driven up premiums which could also affect coverage costs
by other provide rs.  He disc ussed upcoming employee health education sessions; nurse hotline
assistance program currently in p lace, and other health awareness and training for employees to
hopefully assist in reducing  coverage costs.  Upon inquiry  concerning the percentage increase of
catastrophic claims incurr ed in the past y ear, Mr. Wiederspahn ind icated he did not have  that
information available at the mee ting and would provide it.  Comments followed on continuing
research reg arding a we llness prog ram.  Motion car ried. Voting  "y es" – all members of  the
governing body with the exception of Ms. Case voting "no".  (#5614)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation
for Ec onomic Deve lopment (Chey enne L EADS) for  industrial and ec onomic development
services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification to C ontract #5477 betwee n the City of Chey enne and Recco, Inc
d/b/a Five- R Co. for fire a larm tamper  switch and f ire sprinkler  repa ir work a t the Transf er
Station.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $2,575.71). (#5477)
Consideration of B id #R-9-11 for f urnishing one  new r oll-off truc k for the Sanitation
Division (S olid Wa ste Eq uipment L ease/Purchase F und). M r. B rown mov ed to  re ject a ll b ids,
seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
Consideration of B id #R-10-11 for f urnishing two new pa cker trucks for  the Sanitation
Division (S olid Wa ste Eq uipment L ease/Purchase F und). M r. B rown mov ed to  re ject a ll b ids,
seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-3-11 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Miracle
Recreation Eq uipment Co., c/o Churchich Re creation, L LC, Niwot, CO, for furnishing  and
installing playground equipment at David R. Romero South Cheyenne Community Park
(Cheyenne Community Recreation Mill 2010) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-12-11 f or fu rnishing on e new cab a nd c hassis tr uck w ith
automated refuse side loader  body installed from Peterbilt of Wy oming, Cheyenne, WY, for  the
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Transfer o f o wnership for a  re staurant l iquor lic ense a pplication f iled w ith the  City
Clerk’s Of fice for Soo Hy un Choi, L LC d/b/a Toky o Bow l, 1829 Dell Rang e B oulevard,
Cheyenne, WY. (License currently held by Iron Chefs, Inc. d/b/a Tokyo Bowl, 1829 Dell Range
Boulevard, Cheyenne, WY.)  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  
Appointment o f Tim  Thorson to  the  City-County He alth B oard. M s. B royles mo ved to
approve, seconde d by  Mr. Valde z. Upon inquiry , May or Kaysen re viewed the  May oral
application p rocess f or ind ividuals i nterested in  se rving on  City  bo ards a nd c ommissions.
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Appointment o f G reggory Cr isp to t he Ma yor’s Cou ncil f or Peop le wi th D isabilities,
Frank Ha rris t o th e To urism Pr omotion Joint Po wers B oard d/b /a Vi sit Che yenne, a nd Ros s
McKelvey to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board. Mr. Valdez
moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
[CA] Consideration of a proposal for an ag reement, recommended by the Art I n Public Pl aces
Committee,  to ac quire artwork to be know n as “Hare Raising” from Tim Cherry, Branson, MO,
for placement at the e ntrance area of the David R. Romero South Chey enne Community Park --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of purchase of  a  us ed Jac obson mo wer f rom C &  M G olf &  Gr ounds,
Denver, CO, for the Grounds and Facilities Division (2007-2010 1% Sales and Use Tax) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the g overning body , Mayor Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 6:51 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 November 17, 2010