MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-11-22 | CLIP_ID: 186 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 186

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
November 22, 2010
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Che yenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were : MAYOR - Richar d L. Kay sen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker a nd Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the g overning body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There will be no
separate discuss ion on these items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence  on the ag enda.) Mr. Collins moved to appr ove Consent
Agenda items, sec onded by Mr. B rown.  Motion carried. Voting “ yes” – a ll members of the
governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on November 8, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body on November 15, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Upon inquiry, Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, reviewed budget line item expenditures and estimated
remaining fund balances relating to mechanical work outsourcing costs for the Fleet Maintenance
Division and sta ffing overtime c osts for the Sanitation Division.  J im Elias, Publ ic Works
Director, p rovided i nformation av ailable p ertaining t o a v oucher p ayable t o Fo rt T owing &
Service ($295.00) involving towing service for a City transit bus.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” –
all members of the governing body.  Mayor Kaysen noted that Mr. Elias had recently submitted
an ana lysis for his review  with reg ard to F leet Maintena nce a nd Sanitation budge ts, and
explained some mechanical outsourcing of fleet vehicles is due to major repair work that can not
be done by in-house mechanics.
“An O rdinance a nnexing to  th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne, Wy oming, a  p arcel o f la nd being
situated in the SW 1/4 of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W. , 6th P.M., L aramie County , Wy oming
(generally located north of Pershing Boulevard, between Whitney Road and Christensen Road) .”
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  M otion carried.  V oting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
(#3909)
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established
and Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City Map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the Zoning
Classification from LR-2 Low Density Residential-Developing District to MUB Mixed Use with
Business Emphasis District for a portion of the NW¼NE¼NW¼ of Section 26, T.14 N., R.66W.,
6th P.M., C heyenne, Wyoming (located south of a nd adjacent to Dell Rang e Boulevard, east of
Van Buren Avenue).” Ms. Ash moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
 
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established
and Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City Map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the Zoning
Classification f rom L R-2 L ow De nsity Re sidential-Developing a nd CB Commu nity B usiness
Districts to LR-2, MR-2 Low and Medium Density Residential-Developing and P Public Districts
for the The Pointe, Fifth Filing, A Replat of  Lots 13-25, Block 13; Lots 27-69, Block 14; Lots 1-
35, Block 16; Lots 1-22, Bloc k 17; Lots 1-27, Block 18; Lots 1-32, Bloc k 19; Lots 1-19, Bloc k
20 and Lot 1, Block 21, The Pointe; and Lots 37-38 and 71, Block 14; The Pointe, Second Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming ( located a t the southwest corne r of the inter section of E. Four Mile a nd
Powderhouse Roads).” Ms. Ash moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.
Motion carried.  Vo ting “yes” – a ll members of the governing body with the exception of Ms.
Ash and Dr. Rinne voting "no".
[CA] "A Resolution adopting the Chey enne Metropolitan Area Pedestrian Plan and Cheyenne
Metropolitan Area Safe Routes to School Plan."  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5250)
[CA] "A Resolution authoriz ing the  Mayor and the C ity Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for T he
Pointe, Fifth Filing, a replat of Lots 13-25, Block 13; Lots 27-69, Block 14; Lots 1-35, Block 16;
Lots 1-22, Bloc k 17; L ots 1-27, Block 18; L ots 1-32, Bloc k 19; L ots 1-19, Bloc k 20 and L ot 1,
Block 21, The Pointe; and L ots 37-38 and  71, Block 14, The Pointe, Second F iling, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. Four Mile and Powderhouse
Roads)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] “A Resolution supporting the City  of Chey enne’s application for  a L and and Water
Conservation Fund Grant for the Martin Luther King Park Tennis Court Project ( 2007-2010 1%
Sales Tax an d City In-Kind Contributi on)” - - re ferred to F inance Commi ttee (sponsor -  Mr.
Valdez). 
[CA] Contract between the City  of Chey enne and the Chey enne/Laramie County Corporation
for Ec onomic Deve lopment (Chey enne L EADS) for  industrial and ec onomic development
services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $50,000.00). (#5619)
[CA] Contract between the City  of Cheyenne and the United States De partment of Homeland
Security for a  Gra nt in the amount of $100,000 for the  City  of Chey enne F ire and Rescue
Hazardous Materials Response Team and Regional Emergency Response Team # 7 -- referred to
Finance Committee.  
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Regional Medical Center to
permit limited use of the public rig ht-of-way for the construction of a utility corridor and setting
a fee -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Connection Corner (2007-
2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne on behalf of the Chey enne
Metropolitan Planning O rganization and AVI  Professional Corpora tion for Fox Far m Corridor
Plan (Federal Highway Administration Planning Funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification #6 to C ontract #5280 betwee n the City  of Chey enne and Reiman
Corporation for reduction of retainage for the Norris Viaduct Project  (2003-2006 1% Sales Tax;
1% Specific  Purpose Sales and U se Tax; SL IB; TEA L; BOPU F unds) -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-3-11 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Miracle
Recreation Equipment Co., c/o Churchich Rec reation, LLC, Niwot, CO, for furnishing  and
installing playground equipment a t David R. Romero South Chey enne Community  Park
(Cheyenne Community Recreation Mill 2010). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $57,969.00). (#5620)
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-12-11 for f urnishing on e ne w c ab a nd c hassis tr uck w ith
automated refuse side loader  body installed from Peterbilt of Wy oming, Cheyenne, WY, for  the
Sanitation Divisi on (Solid W aste Mana gement Fund).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried
(amount not to exceed $215,557.00).
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-13-11 f or fu rnishing on e ne w F ire Ap paratus a nd L oose
Equipment for the City  of C heyenne Fire & Re scue D epartment -- re ferred to F inance
Committee. 
Consideration of a pr oposal for a n agreement, recommended by the Art  In Public Pl aces
Committee,  to ac quire artwork to be k nown as “Hare Raising” from Tim Cherry, Branson, MO,
for placement at the e ntrance area of the David R. Romero South Chey enne Community Park.
John Goodier, Chair man, Art I n Public Pl aces Committee (AIPPC), reviewed remaining budget
funding ( approximately $ 20,000.00) f or a rtwork a cquisition, th e Co mmittee’s p urpose and
directive to seek artwork for the community pursuant to City Code, AIPPC’s efforts in reviewing
and recommen ding an appropriate art piece for the new park, and the artist’s offer to provide the
sculpture at a reduced c ost ($20,000.00).  Upon inquiry , Mr. Goodier  discussed the AI PPC’s
understanding of funding availability due to budg etary concerns; the number of  sculptures that
have be en placed in the community under the program; status of the Committee (active vs .
inactive) if funding  is not available; sculpture proposals and se lection proc ess utiliz ed by  the
Committee; ar tists’ will ingness to offer  their s culptures at a r educed cost in order  to have the
artwork publicly  display ed; private  donations that have be en provide d for some pie ces, a nd
Committee member s’ and City  staff a ssistance, at times, in phy sical installation of artwor k.
Upon further  inquiry, he reviewed personal costs that Mr. Cherry incurred during the proposal
process regarding the sculpture for the park. Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown stated
there was no re commendation on the item fr om the Com mittee.  Mr. Collins moved to approve ,
seconded by Ms. Case. Ms. Br oyles distributed a broc hure (on file with offic e of City Clerk) on
sculptures that have been placed throughout the City.  D iscussion included the following topics:
Support for volunteer members serving on the City’s various boards and committees; timing  of
the e xpenditure due to b udgetary c oncerns, e conomic sit uation, re ductions in s taffing le vels
incurred earlier in the year, and increasing costs to employees without compensation adjustment;
past and current status of budg et funding for artwork; current fiscal year budget review affiliated
with the funding  line item; budge t priorities and fisca l responsibility; community beautification;
support for sculpture at the new park; funding of basic infrastructure needs (programs, services,
staffing and oper ating costs, etc.)  vs. purcha sing artwork at this t ime; employees’ perception of
purchasing a rtwork r elative to budg et re ductions and conc erns, a nd possible ut ilization of the
funding for the artwork for other City budgets if the proposal is not approved. Motion to approve
failed (due to a tie vote).   Voting “yes” – Ms. Broy les, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Valdez and
Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” – Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Spiker.  
[CA] Consideration o f purch ase of a use d Jac obson mo wer f rom C &  M G olf &  Gr ounds,
Denver, CO, for the Grounds and Facilities Division (2007-2010 1% Sales a nd Use Tax. Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $42,350.00).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 13, 2010 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers for a  transfer of owne rship and tra nsfer of loca tion for a r etail liquor
license a pplication filed with the City  Clerk' s Offic e for  W. E. Dinneen, I nc. d/b/a [to be
determined], 400 W. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY. (License currently held by Cheyenne 28, LLC
f/d/b/a C.B. & Potts, 1650 Dell Range Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming.) 
Under other business, discussion was he ld on a proposed “ write-off” listing that had been
submitted to members of the governing body by the City Treasurer for uncollectible debts due the
City totaling $85,579.00 for years 2003-2008.  Topics discussed included: Collection procedures;
recognition that many  on the debt listing are active businesses in the community ; suggestion of
initiating small claims court a ctions to seek pay ments due throug h assistance of City legal staff
and staff  time that may  be involved; whethe r City service s could be res tricted to those owing
money and setting  a limit of indebtedness fo r same; certa in billi ngs issued throug h Boa rd of
Public Ut ilities, a nd the  do llar amount i nvolving no n-sufficient f unds c hecks that constitutes a
felony o ffense.  D uring d iscussion, Barb D orr, Ci ty T reasurer, e xplained p ast a nd c urrent de bt
collection procedures and communication and collection efforts by staff; that some a mounts due
are unpaid accrued interest; collection agency services, and different types of debt areas, and
noted the listing wa s provided for  review prior to a r esolution being submitted to write- off the
debts.
There being no further business to c ome before the governing body, Mayor Kay sen
adjourned the meeting at 7:04 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
November 30, 2010