MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-12-13 | CLIP_ID: 189 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 189

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
December 13, 2010
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Che yenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were : MAYOR - Richar d L. Kay sen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker a nd Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the g overning body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There will be no
separate discuss ion on these items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence  on the ag enda.) Mr. Collins moved to appr ove Consent
Agenda items, sec onded by Mr. B rown.  Motion carried. Voting “ yes” – a ll members of the
governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 22, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers Meeting of the Governing Body on December 6, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valde z moved to approv e payment of vouche rs as pre sented, sec onded by  Mr.
Brown.  Upon inquiry, Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Rick Parish, Parks and R ecreation
Director, provided information available pertaining to a voucher payable to Motion Fi tness
($19,285.00) fo r e xercise bik es f or pr ogram a ctivities through th e Pa rks a nd Re creation D ept.
purchased with a r ec mill grant through the school district.  Upon fur ther inquiry, Ms. Dorr a nd
Mayor Kaysen clarified a voucher payable to the Cheyenne Area Convention and Visitors Bureau
(CACVB) ($379.67) wa s fo r reimbursement due to a billing inadve rtently sent to CACVB for
telephone service for the City ’s new O perations Building at the De pot Plaz a.  Motion car ried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to receive comments and input for a tra nsfer of
ownership and transfer of location for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's
Office for  W.E. Dinneen, I nc. d/b/a [to be determined], 400 W. L incolnway, Chey enne, WY.
(License currently held by Cheyenne 28, LLC f/d/b/a C.B. & Potts, 1650 Dell Rang e Boulevard,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.)  Co mment was made with regard to literature provided by the applicant
and proposed concept plans for re development of the downtown Dinnee n building.  There being
no further comments and the purpose of the hearing having been met, the item was referred to
Finance Committee.
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established
and Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City Map of the Che yenne City Code, by changing the Zoning
Classification from LR-2 Low Density Residential-Developing District to MUB Mixed Use with
Business Emphasis District for a portion of the NW¼NE¼NW¼ of Section 26, T.14N., R.66W.,
6th P.M., C heyenne, Wyoming (located south of a nd adjacent to Dell Rang e Boulevard, east of
Van Buren Avenue).” Reporting for Public Services  Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of
the governing body. (#3910)
 
“An Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established
and Section 17.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Che yenne City Code, by changing the Zoning
Classification f rom L R-2 L ow De nsity Re sidential-Developing a nd CB  Com munity B usiness
Districts to LR-2, MR-2 Low and Medium Density Residential-Developing and P Public Districts
for the The Pointe, Fifth Filing, A Replat of  Lots 13-25, Block 13; Lots 27-69, Block 14; Lots 1-
35, Bloc k 16; Lots 1-22, Block 17; Lots 1-27, Block 18; Lots 1-32, Block 19; Lots 1-19, Bloc k
20 and Lot 1, Block 21, The Pointe; and Lots 37-38 and 71, Block 14; The Pointe, Second Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming ( located a t the so uthwest corne r of the inter section of E. F our Mile and
Powderhouse Roads).”  Upon inquiry by Kevin Lewis regarding a comprehensive drainage report
for this item, Mayor Kaysen advised his inquiry related more directly to the  next age nda i tem
involving a f inal p lat fo r t he a rea.  M r. C ollins m oved t o ap prove o n third and fi nal re ading,
seconded by Mr. Pierson.  M otion carried.  V oting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
(#3911)
"A Resolution authoriz ing the  May or and the  City  Clerk to sign a Final Plat for The
Pointe, Fifth Filing, a replat of Lots 13-25, Block 13; Lots 27-69, Block 14; Lots 1-35, Block 16;
Lots 1-22, Bloc k 17; L ots 1-27, Bloc k 18; L ots 1-32, Block 19; L ots 1-19, Bloc k 20 and L ot 1,
Block 21, The Pointe; and L ots 37-38 and 71, B lock 14, The Poin te, Second Filing, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. Four Mile and Powderhouse
Roads).”  Kevin Lewis commented on the drainage report, stating his belief that it was
incomplete and tha t the final plat should not be appr oved until a final dra inage plan ha s been
submitted and a vailable to prope rty owners in the are a to re view and provide input.  He fur ther
expressed his concerns with existing vegetation conditions involving weeds.  Mr. Collins  moved
to adopt with staff recommendations #1, 2, 5, 6 and 8, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Upon inquiry,
Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for applicant, advised the drainage report will reflect areas that would
handle drainage and explained they are working with the City Engineer and the school district on
exact locations wher e drainage easements will be located a nd, when f inalized, this information
will be included on the sc hool district’s site design.  Upon further inquiry, Mr. Emmons clarified
the c onstruction drawings w ill re flect r e-seeding of  a reas a fter g rading a nd e xplained p rior to
signatures being obtained on the f inal plat, the dra inage plan and easements will be approve d by
the City  Engineer .  Upon inq uiry, D ave Roy er, pr oject ma nager, e xplained a s th e pr operty is
developed and g raded (stripped), r e-seeding will be done to assist with weeds/veg etation
concerns.  He further explained water trucks will be utilized during construction to help alleviate
the dust, noting hig h winds at times are  a proble m affecting efforts to minim ize the effe cts of
blowing dirt, dust and materia ls. Discussion included the following  topics: Final dra inage report
and opportunity for neighborhood review and feedback; maintenance responsibilities of drainage
areas; flooding of areas during past development ph ases in the area, consistency in standards for
developers, and drainage concerns generally.  Doug Vetter, City Engineer, advised his offic e has
been wo rking wi th t he d eveloper an d t he s chool d istrict o n d rainage i ssues; t hat d rainage
easements will be included on the plat; that an a ppropriate amount of dra inage retention for the
area is to be provided, and  that the plat will not be sig ned until a final dra inage plan ha s been
submitted and approved.  M r. Vetter further advised they are not aware of inadequate drainage
run-off for the area and that current run-off levels do not ex ceed peak discharge amounts.  Upon
further inquiry regarding when the de veloper might have  the final drainage plan c ompleted, Mr.
Royer stated they are working with the school district on the  plans and a n exact time frame  for
submitting the final plan is unknown at this time.  Comments continued on drainage concerns and
approving the final plat prior to complete drainage information being submitted.  Ms. Ash moved
to postpone to Dec. 22, 2010, seconde d by Dr. Rinne.  Comments followed in support and non-
support of  po stponement; opp ortunity fo r t he pu blic a nd tho se a ffected b y the  de velopment t o
review and pr ovide input on drainag e desig n plans; and the Ci ty Eng ineer not authorizing
signatures be a cquired on the plat until the Cit y Eng ineer rec eives, re views and a pproves the
drainage plan.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “yes” – Ms. Ash and Ms. Case.  Voting “no” –
Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor
Kaysen.  Main motion car ried.  Voting  “y es” – a ll members of the g overning body  with the
exception of Ms. Ash, Ms. Case and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  (#5251)
“A Resolution su pporting the City  of Chey enne’s application for  a L and and Water
Conservation Fund Grant for the Ma rtin Luther King Jr. Park Te nnis Court P roject (2007-2010
1% Sales Ta x and City  In-Kind C ontribution).” Mayor Kaysen announced this item was being
withdrawn at the request of the sponsor in order to allow interested parties to meet and discuss
current conditions and amenities at the park, including future overall developments or projects,
and specifically relative to the exis ting tennis court and proposal of 2 new te nnis courts.  May or
Kaysen noted  as the item was be ing w ithdrawn ther e would be no disc ussion or action
entertained on the item.  U pon inquiry, he confirmed that comments could be made under other
business later in the meeting if desired.  Under other City business, Liz Byrd commented she was
disappointed the resolution was removed from the agenda, and discussed generally repairs that
are needed to the curr ent t ennis court due to deteriora tion.  She noted her c oncerns with water
run-off a nd flooding in the park; accessibility of the entire park to residents, including the
ballfield in the norther n corne r of the pa rk, and f uture a menities and improvements, a nd
requested organization of a committee to  coordinate plans for park improvements with City staff.
Mayor Kaysen clarified the resolution was withdrawn from the agenda to provide for establishing
a work group involving several interested parties and individuals to discuss projects for the pa rk
with Parks and Recreation staff.  Ma yor Kaysen further explained that informa tion presented a t
the Fina nce Committee mee ting r egarding the g rant re quest (i.e. r esolution) being  s ought
reflected that there was not enough grant funding available to repair the existing tennis court and
the grant request was f or landscaping the current tennis court a rea, and that future  development
of 2 new  tennis courts  in a diffe rent area of the pa rk, when funding is available, w as discussed.
Ms. Byrd requested a commitment be provided for  when new tennis courts will b e built and that
communication b etween in terested p ersons a nd City  sta ff be  pr ovided, a nd su ggested th e City
request project funding through the State parks office.
[CA] “A Resolution declaring as surplus three (3) City-owned properties located at 515 Morrie
Avenue, 9 16 E ast 5  S treet an d 9 22 E ast 5  S treet, C heyenne, L aramie C ounty, W yoming,th th
together with all improvements ther eon, and authorizing the City  Clerk and City  Purchasing
Director to proce ed with proposed sa le of said pr operties pursuant to Wy o. Stat. § 15-1-112” - -
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] “A Resolution designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds” -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Contract between the City  of Chey enne and the United States Department of Homeland
Security for a  Gra nt in the amount of $100,000 for the City  of Chey enne F ire a nd Rescue
Hazardous Materials Response Team and Regional Emergency Response Team # 7.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5621)  
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Regional Medical Center to
permit limited use of the public rig ht-of-way for the c onstruction of a utility corridor and setting
a fee.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5622)
[CA] Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Connection Corner (2007-
2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5623)
Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne on behalf of the Cheyenne
Metropolitan Planning O rganization and AVI  Professional C orporation for Fox Far m Corridor
Plan (Federal Highway Administration Pl anning Funds).  Re porting for Finance Committee, Mr.
Brown moved to appr ove, seconded by Mr. Valde z.  Mr. Brown  moved to amend by substitute,
seconded by  Mr. Valde z.  I t was advised the  s ubstitute re fines the sc ope of w ork to match
available funding.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
Main motion as amended by  substitut e carried.  V oting “yes” – all members of the g overning
body.  (#5624)
[CA] Grant Award  Agreement between the Wyoming Of fice of Homela nd Security  and the
Cheyenne Police D epartment for L aw Enf orcement and Terr orism Prevention Activities --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Chey enne Police D epartment, and
Policy Solutions Limited to implement the Department of Justice, Office of  Juvenile J ustice and
Delinquency Prevention Enforcing Underage Drinking Laws Discretionary Military Gr ant
Program award -- referred to Finance Committee.   
[CA] Contract Modification #6 to C ontract #5280 between the City  of Chey enne and Reiman
Corporation for reduction of retainage for the Norris Viaduct Project  (2003-2006 1% Sales Tax;
1% Specific  Purpose Sales and U se Tax; SL IB; TEA L; BOPU F unds).  M otion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5280)
Consideration o f B id # R-13-11 f or fu rnishing on e ne w F ire Ap paratus a nd L oose
Equipment for the City of Cheyenne Fire & Rescue Department.  Mr. Brown moved to reject all
submitted bids, seconde d by  Mr. Valde z.  C omments followed  on re- writing the bid specs a s
bids received were higher than a nticipated.  Upon inquiry , J ames Martin, Fire Chief , provided
information re lative to  the bid specific ations, which wa s for a  pump-under- cab a pparatus, and
indicated that in addition to the appar atus, equipment must also be provided a nd since a ll bids
received were over the estimated amount, he would like to re-bid for a more standard fire engine,
not a pump-under -cab, at a lower cost to have  funding  (5  penny  sales tax) for the a ffiliatedth
equipment.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
[CA] Consideration of RFP-02- 11 for a  Contract betw een the City  of Chey enne and Edwards
General Contrac tors, I nc. for  ADA Compliance  Upg rades at the Tac o J ohn’s Event Center  --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA]  Request to expand the dimensions of the curr ent dispensing room for O’J ackson’s, Inc.
d/b/a J ackson’s Sports Grill, 1 121 Old Town L ane, Che yenne, WY --  ref erred to Fina nce
Committee. 
Announcement was made of the Appointment of John Patrick Hand, Gene Palen and Lily
Clabots to the Chey enne H istoric Preser vation Boa rd, a nd Lindsay Ann Woz nick, Gene
MacDonald and Dave Teubner to the City  Planning Commission, t o be confirmed December 22,
2010.  
Announcement wa s made of the  Reappointment of Ge rry McGowe n to the Chey enne
Housing Authority  Boa rd; Tony  Adams and A nn Redmond Esq uibel to the Personnel
Commission; Lisa Burgess to the Fir e Department Civil Service Commission ; Jason Paiz t o the
Police Department Civil S ervice Commissi on; Marc Woods to the City  Planning Commission,
and Darin Westby and Rick Johns ton to the Building  Code Boa rd of Appe als, to be conf irmed
December 22, 2010. 
Announcement was made  that due to the holiday  season, the r egularly scheduled Mon.,
Dec. 27,  2010 meeting  of the Gove rning Body  will inst ead be  held on Wed., Dec . 22, 2010
beginning at 5:30 p.m. in Ci ty Council Chambers.  Ther e will be no Vouc hers meeting of the
Governing B ody at Noon on Mon., De c. 20, 2010 as those pa yables w ill be included on the
Vouchers listing for the Dec. 22nd meeting.  Finance Committee will meet as regularly scheduled
on Mon., Dec. 20, 2010 at 11:00 a.m., Room 122, Municipal Building.  There will be no Public
Services Commi ttee meeting on Tues., De c. 21, 2010 at Noon a s there a re no items for  the
agenda requiring a meeting.
Under other City business:
Hailey El lingham, s poke in o pposition to t he pe nding re moval of  de signated trees in
Lions Park due to height concerns affiliated with the air flight path for the airport.  She discussed
positive attributes of the par k involving preservation of habitat areas for birds and other wildlife;
trees serving as a sound ba rrier and a w ind break around the  lake; we tlands environment; ef fect
of the tre es on the environmental integrity of the pa rk, and c ommunity quality of life involving
park a esthetics.  She requested the opportunity to review documentation relative to whether the
trees posed an a ir flig ht safety  conce rn, and r equested the dec ision to remove the tre es be
reconsidered.  Jackie Oceanak also spoke in opposition to removal of the tre es, remarking on tree
benefits to the community, and requested the removal of the trees be delayed to allow for review
of further information involving slope mea surements relative to Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) regulations and City ordinance.  M s. Oceanak read a letter into the record (on file with
City Clerk’s office) that she had submitted on behalf of her citizen’s group  t o the City Council
on Dec. 1 0, 20 10 regarding the  group’s c oncerns and issues su rrounding removal of  the  tr ees.
Other topics pr esented by Ms. Oceanak included: Unr esolved issues about the tr ees; actual tree
heights; wording c ontained in City Ordinance No. 1969; heig ht restrictions and slope
measurements relative to t he flight path; whether grand stand structures at Frontier Park violate
height restriction, and the  City vs. FAA ’s authority and responsibility regarding removal of the
trees.  Ms. Ocea nak submitted copies ( on file with City  Clerk’s off ice) of a sur vey map of the
Lions Park are a in question, noting the  map was pr ovided b y the Airport B oard, and reviewed
information containe d on the map. May or Ka ysen re quested Ms. Oceanak submit the gr oup’s
questions in writing to the May or’s Of fice along  with copies of r eferenced materials noted by
Ms. Ocea nak during  her c omments.  I t was questioned whe ther a  perf ormance bond had be en
required a s p art o f t he c ontract w ith t he c ontractor h ired t o r emove t he t rees.  U pon i nquiry,
Mayor Kaysen advised the tree company hired to provide removal services is licensed to do work
in the City, that no performance bond was required and that the contract work is identified to start
in January. Dan White, City  Attorney, stated all City  licensed tree service providers are required
to car ry commerc ial general liability  insurance  as a c ondition of a business license, a nd the
amount of liabil ity coverage required under the c ontract had bee n increased from that requir ed
for a license.  Comments of conc ern were expressed regarding Council members listening to the
public, and compliance with Ordinance #1969.
There being no further business to c ome before the governing body, Mayor K aysen
adjourned the meeting at 7:30 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 22, 2010