MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2010-12-22 | CLIP_ID: 191 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 191

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
December 22, 2010
Due to the holiday  season, the r egularly scheduled December 27, 2010 meeting  of the
Governing B ody wa s in stead h eld o n th is d ate be ginning a t 5: 30 p. m. i n Co uncil Ch ambers.
Present were: MAYOR - Richard L . Kaysen; COUNC IL MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown,
Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also
present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by the g overning body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a  member of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Collins moved to Consent Agenda items,
seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on Dec ember 13, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Mr. Va ldez declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to radio
station KYOY a nd vacated Council Chambers.  Motion ca rried. Voting “ yes” – a ll members of
the g overning body  prese nt in Council  Chambers.  F ollowing a nnouncement of the vote, Mr.
Valdez returned to Council Chambers.
“An Ordinance amending Section 2.04.060, Meeting s of the g overning body, of Chapter
2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and Perso nnel, of the City of Cheyenne
Code” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] “A Resolution declaring as surplus three (3) City-owned properties located at 515 Morrie
Avenue, 9 16 E ast 5  S treet an d 9 22 E ast 5  S treet, C heyenne, L aramie C ounty, W yoming,th th
together with all improvements ther eon, and a uthorizing the City  Clerk and Ci ty Purchasing
Director to proceed  with proposed sale  of said prope rties pursuant to Wy o. Stat. § 15-1-112”.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5252)
“A R esolution designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds”.  Re porting
for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Collins and
Mr. Spiker each declared a conflict of interest (membership on bank boards) and vacated Council
Chambers.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Collins returned to Council
Chambers. (#5253)
[CA] Grant Awar d Ag reement between the Wyoming Office of Homela nd Security  and the
Cheyenne Police Department for Law Enforcement and Terrorism Prevention Activities.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5625)
[CA] Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police D epartment, and
Policy Solutions Limited to implement the Department of Justice, Office of  Juveni le Justice and
Delinquency Prevention Enfor cing Under age Dr inking L aws Discr etionary Milit ary Gra nt
Program award.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5626)
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for traffic signal software (partial Federal Highway Safety Improvement Program
funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wy oming Department of
Transportation for a T raffic Interconnect Network Element System for converting certain copper
telephone lines to an Ethernet capable communications system -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of RFP-02-11 for a Contra ct between the City  of Chey enne and Edwards
General Contrac tors, I nc. for  ADA Compliance  Upgr ades at the Tac o J ohn’s Event Center .
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5627)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-15-11 for furnishing one n ew ro ll-off t ruck fo r t he Sanitation
Division from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, WY, for the cab and chassis, and Kois Brothers
Equipment, Com merce City , CO , f or the  bo dy (S olid Wa ste Ma nagement f und) --  re ferred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Transfer of ownership and transfer of location for a retail liquor license application filed
with the City Clerk's Office for W.E. Dinneen, Inc. d/b/a [to be determined], 400 W. Lincolnway,
Cheyenne, WY. (License currently held by Cheyenne 28, LLC f/d/b/a C.B. & Pot ts, 1650 Dell
Range Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming.)  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA]  Request to expand the dimensions of the current dispensing room for O’Jackson’s, Inc.
d/b/a J ackson’s Sports Grill, 1121 Old Town L ane, Che yenne, WY.  Motion (per  Consent
Agenda) carried. 
Appointment of J ohn Patrick Ha nd, Gene  Palen  and Lily Clabots to the Chey enne
Historic Preservation Board, and Lindsay Ann Woznick, Gene MacDonald and Dave Teubner to
the City Planning Commission.  Mr. Collins moved to approve, seconded by Mr.Valdez.  Motion
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen
who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Reappointment of Ge rry McGowe n to the Chey enne H ousing A uthority Boa rd; Tony
Adams and A nn Redmond Esquibe l to the Personne l Comm ission; L isa Bur gess to the Fir e
Department C ivil Se rvice Co mmission; Ja son Pa iz to  th e Po lice D epartment C ivil Se rvice
Commission; Mar c Woods to the City Planning Commission, a nd Darin Westby  an d R ick
Johnston to the Building Code Boa rd of Appe als.  Mr. Va ldez moved to approve, se conded by
Mr. Collins.  M otion carr ied. Voting “yes” – a ll members of the g overning body  with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Announcement was made that the Sine Die Meeting of the Governing Body will be held
at 3:00 p.m., and the First Regular Meeting of  the Governing Body at 3:15 p.m. on Mon., Jan. 3,
2011 in City Council Chambers, Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY.
Announcement was made  that due to the Sine Die a nd First Regular Mee tings of the
Governing Body on Mon., J an. 3, 2011, the f ollowing meetings will i nstead be held on Tues.,
Jan. 4, 2011: Fina nce Committee will meet at 11:00 a.m., Room 122, and Vouche rs meeting at
Noon, Council Chambers, Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY. There will
be no Public Services Committee meeting on Tues., Jan. 4, 2011 at Noon as there are no items for
the agenda requiring a meeting.  
Under other business:
Barbara L aybourn thanke d outgoing  Council member Ju dy Case for her 12 y ears of
service on City Council and her representation of Ward I residents.  Ms. Case r esponded that she
has enjoyed serving her constituents.
Ms. Case commented o n the practice of waiving fees, and inquired a bout the waiver  of
fees a ssociated w ith the  ne w a irline pr oviding se rvice a t th e Che yenne Regional A irport wi th
Dave Haring, Airport Manager, providing information on certain fees that have been waived on a
temporary basis, which is a c ommon practice  by  airports.  Upo n inquiry, City  Attorney  Dan
White advised he would conduc t research on the  matter involving the airpor t fees and provide a
response.
Major Do rr e xpressed c oncern wi th t he a esthetics o f t he “ hole in t he str eet” on  we st
Lincolnway (i.e. site of the  downtown fire  years ago) and sug gested the e xcavation be filled in.
Mayor Kaysen advised ongoing discussions concerning the site are bei ng held, noting the City
owns 1/3 of the property and a private party owns the other 2/3rds.
There being no further business to c ome before the governing body, Mayor Kay sen
adjourned the meeting at 5:47 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 31, 2010