MEETING: Sine Die Meeting | DATE: 2011-01-03 | CLIP_ID: 193 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 193

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
January 3, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in “Sine Die” session at 3:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers. Present were:  MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS - Ms. Ash,
Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.
Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Mayor Kaysen welcomed those in attendance, provided a general explanation of the term “Sine
Die” and the purpose of the session, which is administrative in nature.  He noted the session provides
for ceremonial recognition of outgoing Ward I City Council member Ms. Case, and outgoing 2010 City
Council President Ms. Broyles.
At Mayor Kaysen’s request, City Clerk Carol Intlekofer read a cer emonial resolution in i ts
entirety, honoring outgoing Council member Ms. Case, entitled as follows: “A Ceremonial Resolution
in recognition of the Honorable Judy Case for her Dedication and Outstanding Contributions to the City
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and its Residents.”  May or Kaysen thanked Ms. Cas e for her de dication,
commitment and her caring for residents and the community throughout her years of elected service and
presented her with a framed version of the ceremonial resolution, an engraved plaque of appreciation,
and a token of appreciation on behalf of the City Council.  Ms. Case thanked citizens for their support
during her three terms on City Council, and stated she has enjoyed serving the community.  (#5254)
Mayor Kaysen commented on the leadership role, responsibility and commitment involved in
serving as Council President and expressed appreciation to Ms. Broyles as President of City Council
for 2010.  On behalf of the City Council, Mayor Kaysen presented her with an engraved gavel plaque
of appreciation.  Ms. Broyles thanked City Council members for their support during her service as
President and briefly noted topics of interest that had occurred during her term as president.
Purpose of the “Sine Die” session having been met, Mayor Kaysen adjourned the meeting at
3:09 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
PUBLISH: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
January 10, 2011