MEETING: First Regular Meeting of the Governing Body | DATE: 2011-01-03 | CLIP_ID: 195 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 195

   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
January 3, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne assembled for its 2011 First Regular Meeting
on this date at 3:15 p.m. in City Council Chambers.  Mayor Kaysen welcomed those in attendance
and stated the purpose of the First Regular Meeting was to administer oaths of office to those
individuals who were elected, or re-elected, at the most recent general election to serve as municipal
officials, and to take action on the positions for City Council President and Vice-President for 2011
and for Mayoral administrative appointees.
The Honorable Thomas Campbell, Judge of the First Judicial District Court, administered
the oath of elected office for newly elected and re-elected City Council members: Sean D. Allen,
Ward I; Georgia Broyles, Ward III, and Mark D. Rinne, Ward II.
Mayor Kaysen officially called the meeting to order.  Those present were: MAYOR - Richard
L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles,  Mr. Collins, Mr.
Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
ELECTION OF  COUNCI L PRES IDENT F OR 2011.  May or Ka ysen announc ed that
pursuant to City Code, he would not be participating in voting for the election of Council President.
Mayor Kaysen stated nominations for election of the office of Council President was in order.  Ms.
Broyles moved to nominate and elect Dr. Rinne as City Council President for 2011, seconded by Mr.
Valdez.  Mr. Pierson moved that nominations cease, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion to cease
nominations carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote.  M otion to nominate and elect Dr. Rinne carried.  Vo ting “yes” – a ll
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.
ELECTION OF COUNCIL VICE-PRESIDENT FOR 2011.  Mayor Kaysen announced that
pursuant to City Code, he would not be pa rticipating in voting for  the election of Council Vice-
President.  Mayor Kaysen stated nominations for election of the office of Council Vice-President was
in order.  Dr. Rinne moved to nominate and elect Mr. Brown as City Council Vice-President for
2011, seconded by Ms. Broy les.  Mr. Collins m oved that nominations cea se, seconded by Mr.
Pierson.  Motion to cease nominations carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body
with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.  Motion to nominate and elect Mr. Brown
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who
did not vote.
APPROVAL OF A PPOINTMENT OF  CITY OFFI CIALS (pursuant to Title 2 of the
Cheyenne City Code) as follows: Matthew J. Ashby, Planning Services Director; Barbara E. Dorr,
City Treasurer; James Edward Elias, Public Works Director; Paul S. Galeotos, Municipal Court
Judge; Ra ndy K. Hays, Assistant C ity Tr easurer; Ca rol I ntlekofer, City  Cle rk/Assistant C ity
Treasurer; Ronnald J. Jeffr ey, Juvenile Court Judge; Brian N. Kozak, Chief of Cheyenne Police
Department; James A. Martin, Chief of Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department; Mark T. Moran,
Municipal Court Judge; Rick L. Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation; Douglas G. Vetter, City
Engineer, and Daniel E. White, City Attorney.  Mayor Kaysen announced that pursuant to state law,
as these are Mayoral appointments, he would not be participating in the voting.  Mr. Spiker moved
to approve the appointments “en masse”, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion  carried.  Voting “yes”
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.  The
Honorable Thomas Campbell, Judge of the First Judicial District Court, administered the oa th of
office to the aforementioned Mayoral appointees.
Mayor Kaysen expressed appreciation to those in attendance at the meeting and extended a
special thank you to Judge Campbell for his participation in the meeting.  Mayor Kaysen announced
that those present were invited to enjoy light refreshments available in the City Council annex area
immediately following the meeting.
Purpose of the First Regular Meeting having been met, Mayor Kaysen adjourned the meeting
at 3:30 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
January 10, 2011