MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-01-10 | CLIP_ID: 198 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 198

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
January 10, 2011
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Che yenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were : MAYOR - Richar d L. Kay sen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker a nd Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr,
City Trea surer, and Erik  Rasmussen, Deputy  City  Attorney .  The pledg e of a llegiance was
recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by the g overning body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a  member of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence  on the ag enda.)  Mr. Col lins moved to approve Consent
Agenda items, sec onded by  Mr. Spike r.  Motion carr ied. Voting  “y es” – a ll members of the
governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on Dec ember 22, 2010.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Sine Die Session of the G overning Body on January 3, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from the F irst Reg ular Mee ting of  the Gover ning B ody on J anuary 3, 2011.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouchers  Meeting of the Gover ning Body on J anuary 4, 2011.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valde z moved to approve pa yment of vouche rs as pre sented, seconded by  Mr.
Brown. Upon inquiry regarding a vouche r payable for ice slicer pr oducts utilized by Street and
Alley, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, provided information on staff  testing of  other ty pes of
ice melting  products. Upon f urther inquiry  reg arding a vouche r pay able t o Labor R eady for
temporary sanitation wo rkers,  M ayor Ka ysen a dvised h e re cently re ceived a  sta ffing a nalysis
from Mr. Elias a nd is in the process of  reviewing the information. Mr. Elias state d copies of the
analysis would be provided to Council members.  Pursuant to comment on vouchers payable to
Sapp Brothers Service Center a nd Agland for tire s and the volume of tire s purchased for Fleet
vehicles, Mr. Elias re sponded that he w ould provide informa tion to the gove rning body on the
annual c ost incurred for tir es.  Up on qu ery, M s. Do rr re viewed a  vo ucher p ayable to Jim
Wollenburg ($648.80), for art work sales, minus payment of sales tax and other charges, relating
to a recent National Arts Program event at the Civic Center.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – a ll
members of the governing body.
“An Ordinance amending Section 2.04.060, Meeting s of the Gove rning Body, of Chapter
2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the City of Cheyenne
Code.” R eporting fo r F inance C ommittee, M r. Va ldez m oved t o ap prove o n s econd re ading,
seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body.
[CA] “A Resolution desig nating the Sunday s during  2011 that annual liquor lice nsees may
extend dispensing room hours of operation for sales until 2:00 a.m. the following day” -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to s ign a Final Plat for Norris
Viaduct Addition, Fir st Filing, a  resubdivision of all or portions of B locks 607, 614, 615, 666,
667, 668, 669 and vacation of streets and alleys within said Blocks of South Cheyenne Addition,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of Morrie Avenue, being portions of Logan Avenue, 5th Street
and Campstool Road)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to s ign a Final Plat for Norris
Viaduct Addition, Second F iling, a rep lat of a portion of B locks 488, 546, 548 and a ll of Block
547, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located southwest of and adjacent to Nationway, east
of Dunn Avenue)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Gra nite Hills S ubdivision, a replat of a  portion o f Tracts 7 and 10,
Dell Ra nge Ad dition, 2 nd Filing, Ch eyenne, Wyoming (l ocated north o f and a djacent t o Ca rla
Drive, between Ridge Road and College Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the Ci ty of Chey enne and the Wy oming Department of
Transportation for traffic signal software (partial Federal Highway Safety Improvement Program
funds and 2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5629)
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a T raffic Interconnect Network Element System for converting certain copper
telephone lines to a n Etherne t capa ble communications sy stem (2007-2010 1% Sale s Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5630)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-15-11 for furnishing one new r oll-off t ruck fo r t he Sanitation
Division from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, WY, for the cab and chassis, and Kois Brothers
Equipment, Commerce City , CO, for the body  (Solid W aste Mana gement fund) .  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (total amount not to exceed $116,149.00).
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-5-11 for  furnishing and installing one new pool filt er, and the
option to furnish and  install a Hanovia U V Pool W ater Purification System for the L ions Park
Municipal Pool (2003-2006 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-7-11 for furnishing  one ten y ard dump truc k with snow plow,
spreader, and tarpaulin for the Street & Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-17-11 f or fu rnishing on e ne w D emo F ire Tr uck a nd Sma ll
Equipment for the City of Cheyenne Fire & Rescue Department (1% Specific Purpose Sales &
Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-16-11 f or furnishing two ne w packer trucks for the Sanitation
Division (Solid Waste Equipment Lease/Purchase fund) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
  
Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday on Monday, Jan.
17, 2011, the following City Council meetings will instead be held on Tuesday, Jan. 18, 2011 in
the Municipal B uilding, 2101 O’ Neil Avenue: Finance C ommittee will meet a t 11:00 a.m. and
Public Services will meet at 12:15 p.m. in Council Meeting Room 122; Vouchers meeting will be
held at Noon in Council Chambers. 
Announcement wa s made of the Appointment of Timothy  Morton to the Gre enway
Advisory Committee; and B etsy Putnam to the L aramie County Juvenile Services Joint Powers
Board, to be confirmed January 24, 2011.
Announcement was ma de of the Rea ppointment of L eda Pojman to the Housing  and
Community Development Advisory Council, to be confirmed January 24, 2011.
Under o ther C ity business, John  Pa lmer e xpressed h is c oncerns w ith the  pu blic
participation format utilized at City Council meetings, and requested Council members consider
changing the process.  May or Kaysen reviewed the g overning body and City  Council standing
committees’ me eting pr ocess r elative to o pportunity fo r p ublic input  on  a genda ite ms.
Comments followed on current and past public participation formats. 
There being  no further  busin ess to come be fore the g overning body , Mayor Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 6:18 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 18, 2010