MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-01-24 | CLIP_ID: 200 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 200

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
January 24, 2011
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were : MAYOR - Ri chard L . Kay sen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr . Br own, Ms. Br oyles, M r. C ollins, Dr. Rinne, Mr.
Pierson, M r. Spi ker a nd Mr . V aldez.  A bsent: Ms.  As h.  Also pr esent: Ca rol I ntlekofer, City
Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Da n White, City Attorney.  The pledg e of a llegiance was
recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no
separate discussion on these  items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its n ormal sequence on the ag enda.)  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove Consent
Agenda items, sec onded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carr ied. Voting  “yes” – a ll members of the
governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 10, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Vouche rs Meeting of the Gover ning Body on January 18, 2011.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valde z moved to approve  pay ment of vouche rs as pre sented, sec onded by  Mr.
Spiker.  Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to
Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, and vacated Council Chambers.  Motion car ried. Voting “yes” –
all members of  the g overning body present in Council Chambers.  Following  announcement of
the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
“An Ordinance amending Section 2.04.060, Meetings of the Governing Body, of Chapter
2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the City of Cheyenne
Code.” Repor ting f or F inance Commi ttee, Mr. Va ldez moved to approve on thi rd and fina l
reading, se conded by  Mr. B rown.  Upon in quiry, City  Trea surer Ba rb Dorr  advised he r
department has not rec eived any phone ca lls or inquiries from t he public or ve ndors regarding
the ordinanc e, which w ill chang e the voucher approva l/payment schedule .  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body present. (#3912)
An Ordinance amending Section 9.16.100 (B),  Open House Assembly, of Chapter 9.16,
Offenses By or Against Minors, of Title 9, P ublic Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City  of
Cheyenne, Wyoming, pertaining to the de finition of ‘Adult’ -- r eferred to Publi c Servic es
Committee (sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
“A Resolution desig nating the Sunday s during  2011 that annual liq uor l icensees may
extend dispensing room hours of operation for sales until 2:00 a.m. the following day.”  B ryan
Grzegorczyk, President, L aramie County L iquor Dea lers Associa tion, spoke in favor of  the
resolution and provi ded information about the Assoc iation; community programs supported by
Association members through fund-raising efforts, and the Association’s support o f t he P olice
Department’s D.U.I. and Unde rage Drinking Task Force. He noted that local ba r owners have
purchased appr oximately1,500 taxi  rides for  its patrons to assist with re sponsible and saf e
driving.  Jon Coverdale, Crown Bar, also spoke in favor of the resolution.  Reporting for Finance
Committee, Mr. Valdez stated there  was no re commendation on the item fr om the Commi ttee.
Mr. Valdez moved to adopt, se conded by Mr. Collins.  Upon inqui ry regarding past approval of
similar r esolutions, Ci ty Clerk Carol I ntlekofer advised that, to the best of her  rec ollection,
resolutions for the f our Sunday s had bee n approve d annually  since th e mid-1980s, with the
possible exception of date c hanges.  Discussion followed and inc luded state statute wor ding
providing that the licensing authority “may” (not “shall”) approve the four Sundays request, and
that approval of the extended hours would a dd approximately 16 additional hours of ope ration
during 2011 that licensees could, if they chose to d o so, remain open on the four Sundays until
2:00 a.m. the following day.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body
present with the exception of Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson and Mr. Spiker voting “no”.  (#5255)
“A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to s ign a Final Plat for Norris
Viaduct Addition, Fir st Filing, a  resubdivision of all or portions of B locks 607, 614, 615, 666,
667, 668, 669 and vacation of streets and alleys within said Blocks of South Cheyenne Addition,
Cheyenne, Wy oming (l ocated e ast o f M orrie Av enue, b eing po rtions o f L ogan A venue, 5 th
Street and Campstool Road).”  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to
adopt with staff recommendations #1 and 2 and Planning Commission condition #3, seconded by
Mr. V aldez.   Mo tion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” – a ll m embers of  the  g overning bo dy pr esent.
(#5256)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to s ign a Final Plat for Norris
Viaduct Addition, Second F iling, a replat of a portion of B locks 488, 546, 548 and all of B lock
547, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located southwest of and adjacent to Nationway, east
of Dunn Avenue).”   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5257)
[CA] “A Res olution re- appropriating the  Fisca l Year  2011 budg et of the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S . 16-4-11 2 & 16-4-113" -- r eferred to Financ e Committ ee
(sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] “A Resolution a uthorizing a  str eet na me c hange fr om L ogan A venue to C ampbell
Avenue for the por tion of the stree t originally platted in Kelley’s Addition as Fa irview Avenue
and later known as Logan Avenue, located between East 9  Street and East 10  Street, located inth th
Kelley’s Ad dition to t he City  of  Che yenne, L aramie Cou nty, Wy oming” --  re ferred to  Pub lic
Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
Preliminary Plat for Granite Hills S ubdivision, a replat of a  portion of Tra cts 7 and 10,
Dell Range Addition, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Carla
Drive, between Ridge Road and College Drive).  Mr. Collins moved to acknowledge receipt with
staff recommendations #1 through 3 a nd #5 through  7, seconded by Mr. B rown.  Upon inquiry
regarding any proposed parking restrictions the developer may place on campers, trailers, boats
and recreational vehicles, John Steil, Steil Surveying Services, agent for the developer, indicated
either by signage or covenants the parking of these types of vehicles will not be allowed.  U pon
further inquiry  whether  there  will be a deve lopment wide cove nant prohibiting pa rking of
recreational type vehicles, Dan Montgomery, developer, advised it is his intent to prohibit or
restrict parking of these types of vehicles in the high density residential areas.  It was clarified
that staff and the developer have agreed that a 20 ft. pedestrian easement, previously proposed as
an addition to staff recommendation #4, was not included in the staff recommendations noted in
the motion. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Transit Division, and St ride Learning Center
for Transit Division bus service for Stride clients -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Volleyball O fficiating A greement b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne, Re creation D ivision,
and Of ficials f or F un Clu b f or a dult Ci ty le ague vo lleyball o fficiating service s - - r eferred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Under standing betwee n the City  of Chey enne, F ire a nd Rescue
Department, a nd L aramie Co unty Co mmunity Co llege f or th e s ponsorship o f o ne s tudent p er
calendar y ear in the Parame dic Prog ram off ered at L aramie County  Communi ty College   --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Cooperative A greement b etween t he C ity o f C heyenne a nd t he S tate o f W yoming,
Department of Environmenta l Quality , to develop a water quality  reme diation plan for L ake
Minnehaha in Holliday Park (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Contract No. 5496 betwee n the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering De partment, a nd Ay ers As sociates f or a dditional de sign s ervices f or the  Ea st
Pershing B oulevard Re construction Pr oject ( Phase IV) (2003-2006, 2 007-2010 1 % Sa les T ax,
Board of Public Utilities, Fede ral Hig hway Adm inistration funds) - - re ferred to F inance
Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-5-11 for  furnishing and installing one new pool filter, a nd the
option to furnish and  install a Hanovia UV Pool Water Purification System for the Lions Park
Municipal Pool (2003-2006 1% Sales Ta x). Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (pool filter
only - amount not to exceed $36,880.00).
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-7-11 for furnishing one  ten y ard dump truc k with snow plow,
spreader, and tarpaulin for the Stree t & Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Ta x.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $195,392.00).
 
Consideration o f B id # R-17-11 f or fu rnishing one ne w D emo F ire Tr uck a nd Sma ll
Equipment f or the  City of  Che yenne Fire & Rescue Dept. (1 % S pecific Pur pose Sa les & Us e
Tax).  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez stated there was no recommendation on the
item from the Commit tee.  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove the  bid from Fr ont Rang e F ire of
Frederick, CO in th e amount of $467,821.00, seconde d by  Mr. Allen.  Chief Jim  Martin,
Cheyenne F ire &  Rescue D epartment, provided informa tion on the curre nt fire truc k (1998
Pierce Qu antum) to b e re placed; age o f other b ackup u nits; o ther b ids re ceived; b id
specifications, and war ranty information submitted with bids.  Dis cussion followed a nd
included: Specific ations and warranty require ments set forth in the bid document; leng th of
warranty (frame) coverage (50 y ears) re quested in bid specif ications; use of the e ngine being
replaced after removal f rom f ront l ine se rvice; lo wer b id r eceived r elative to m eeting bid
specifications; b id d ocument w ording r egarding c onsideration o f t he t ime o f t ruck d elivery;
lowest bid received ($437,432.00) vs. proposed r ecommended bidder; bidding process, and age,
life expectancy, usage and maintenance costs for current and reserve engines in use.  Throughout
discussion Chief Martin provided infor mation on plans for extending the  life of the c urrent fire
truck a fter r etirement from front line se rvice; frame  war ranty; Fire  and Rescue A pparatus
Committee review of bids re ceived, staff me mbers compr ising the Committee and the
Committee’s recommendation to acquire a 2011 Pierce Arrow XT “D emo” engine; importance
of deliver y date c onsideration due  to maintenance costs incur red f or the c urrent truck;
differences in truck models, capabilities, vehicle frame warranty and time of delivery relative to
bid specifica tions and bids recei ved, and life  expectancy and use of  curr ent and r eserve fle et
engines.  Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Director of Public Works, stated he was unsure whether any
frame failures on fire  engines have occurred, and John Fox, Divisi on Chief of Operations, Fire
and Rescue Department, explained bidders’ “checked-off” boxes indicating areas of bid
specification compliance on forms submitted with their bid, and importance of frame warranty
coverage that doesn’t expire when an engine is retired from the front line and the engine is put to
other fleet use.  Discussion continued on a  20 vs. 50 y ear frame warranty; type of f ire trucks
utilized; proximity of bidders’ dealer service centers to Cheyenne; consideration of delivery time
frame during bid evaluation proc ess; bidding pr ocedures, and concern with lowest bid rec eived
vs. proposed re commended bidde r.  During  discussion on frame  war ranty cover age, Dua ne
Dusett, Fr ont Rang e F ire, e xplained the 50 y ear war ranty provided by  Fr ont Rang e’s bid has
been in place s ince s tability f rame c hanges w ere ma de to  tr ucks f or b etter s tability a nd
durability.  In response to a procedural question, City Attorney Dan White advised if a cceptance
of the recommended bid is re jected, ideally it would be best to rejec t all bids and re-bid.  It was
confirmed the bid for the Pier ce Arrow XT from Front Range Fire was the only vendor that met
all bid specifications.  M r. White expressed concerns with proceeding with acceptance of a bid
from any other vendor that did not meet specifications. Upon inquiry regarding wh en it  is
decided to place a unit in reserves, Chief Martin advised it is b ased on maintenance concerns,
expenses, and life of  the vehicle , and explained the depar tment’s fleet replacement plan. Upon
inquiry, Mr. Elias indicated any time the City can standardize fleet equipment it may save costs
but ea ch department s hould determine w hat type of unit and e quipment they need, a nd Chief
Martin advised bid specifications were developed to be as general as possible and that past bid
documents we re use d as a g uideline.  Chief Mar tin further discusse d war ranty time frame ;
matching State L and and I nvestment Boa rd (SL IB) fundi ng deadline connec ted with the
purchase; recommendation to acc ept the propose d bid involving a he avier engine, transmission
and frame; different components offered by truck manufacturers, and estimated time frame if re-
bidding of the eng ine is conducted.  Upon query , Rudy Apodaca, Director of Purc hasing, read
bid docum ent wording  reg arding acc eptance of the  lowest bid in the sole discretion of the
governing body.  Pursuant to i nquiry regarding the time fra me for utilizing SL IB funds, Mayor
Kaysen re cessed the meeting f or 15 minutes to contact the G rants Mana ger r egarding the
deadline.  Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 7:45 p.m. and advised communication with
the Grants Manager was unable to be made .  Mr. Pierson moved to postpone to Fe b. 14, 2011,
seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Mr. Duse tt advised the demo truc k bid by Front Range Fire has extra
features th at weren’t r equired in  bid  sp ecifications a nd if  the  mot ion to a ccept t he bid  is
postponed, it’s possible that the dem o truck could be moved out or sold to someone e lse and
would no longer be available. Discussion followed on the postponement with regard to receipt of
information in volving the  SL IB fu nding tim e fr ame.  M r. Pie rson wi thdrew h is m otion to
postpone with concur rence by Mr. Spiker as se cond to the motion. As there we re no obje ctions
raised b y oth er m ember o f t he g overning bo dy, M ayor Ka ysen a nnounced th e mot ion to
postpone was being withdrawn.  Dr. Rinne moved to ame nd the main motion to reflec t approval
would be contingent upon the availability of SLIB funds, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mo tion to
amend c arried.  Voting  “yes” – all member s of the g overning body prese nt.  Main motion as
amended to approve the bid submitted by Front Range Fire for the Pierce Arrow XT demo truck
in the amount of $467,821.00 ca rried.  V oting “yes” – a ll members of the g overning body
present with the exception of Mr. Spiker voting “no”.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-16- 11 for f urnishing two ne w packer trucks for the Sanitation
Division (Solid Waste Equipment L ease/Purchase fund).  Motion (p er Consent Agenda) carried
(total amount not to exceed $259,632.00).
[CA] Consideration of B id # R-18-11 for  furnishing  twelve ne w 2011 Police vehicle s from
Spradley Ba rr Motors, Chey enne, Wyoming, for the Police De partment (2007- 2010 1% Sales
Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
  
Appointment o f T imothy Mo rton to the  Gr eenway Ad visory Com mittee, a nd B etsy
Putnam to  the  L aramie Cou nty Juve nile Se rvices Join t Po wers B oard.  M r. B rown mov ed to
approve, secon ded by Mr. Valde z.  Mot ion car ried.  Voting  “y es” – a ll members of the
governing body present with the exception of May or Ka ysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointment).
Re-appointment of Leda Pojman to the Housing  and Community Development Advisory
Council.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve , seconde d by Ms. Broy les.  Motion carr ied.  Voting
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did
not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Announcement was made  of the Appointment of Ka therine Palmer, Carol Wurdemann,
Ted Ge rtsch and L eland G. Clabots to the Housi ng and Communi ty Deve lopment Advisory
Council; Ray Fertig, Jr. to the Building Code Board of Appeals; Keith C. Eldred  to the Board of
Adjustment, and Robin Zimmer to the Public Transit Advisory Board, to be confirmed February
14, 2011.
Announcement was made  of the Re-ap pointment of Gene Maione  to the Boa rd of
Adjustment, to be confirmed February 14, 2011. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 14, 2011 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue, for a  transfer of owne rship for a  retail liquor
license application filed with the City  Clerk's Office for CJ M Hospitality, LLC d/b/a Hitching
Post I nn, 1600 Wes t  L incolnway, Chey enne, Wy oming. ( License curr ently held by  Mantiff
Cheyenne H ospitality, L LC d /b/a R amada In n H itching P ost In n, 1 600 W est L incolnway,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.) 
There b eing n o f urther b usiness to  c ome b efore th e g overning b ody, Mayor K aysen
adjourned the meeting at 7:59 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 February 7, 2011