MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-02-14 | CLIP_ID: 202 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 202

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
February 14, 2011
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were : MAYOR - Ri chard L . Kay sen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. S piker and Mr. Va ldez.  Absent: Mr. Pierson.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk;
Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Presentation of Wy oming Eng ineering Society Presidential Project Aw ard f or 2010,
Grand Pr ize - E ngineering Ca tegory, to  the  City  of  Che yenne for the Norris V iaduct Pr oject.
Nathan Beauheim, Assistant City Engineer, advised the City was honored with the grand prize in
the Engineering category at the recent annual convention of the Wyoming Engineering Society.
He presented the plaque tha t had bee n received to May or Kaysen, on beha lf of the governing
body, and thanke d those busin esses, agencies and staff  who assisted with the projec t.  May or
Kaysen advised this wa s the larg est public works proje ct the City  has eve r under taken, a nd
expressed appreciation to the Engineering Society for recognition of the project a nd to everyone
involved.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the g overning body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member  of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to
support received by Ms. Ash and Dr. Rinne, agenda items #14 and 20(c) were removed from the
Consent Agenda.  Mr. Collins moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Brown.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 24, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. B rown moved to a pprove pa yment o f vouchers as pre sented, sec onded by  Mr.
Spiker.  Mr. Valdez declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to
KYOY FM Radio, and vacated Council Chambers.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members
of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr.
Valdez returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a Public Hea ring to rec eive public c omments for a  transfe r of
ownership f or a  r etail l iquor lic ense a pplication f iled w ith t he C ity C lerk's O ffice f or C JM
Hospitality, L LC d /b/a H itching P ost I nn, 1 600 W est  L incolnway, Cheyenne, W yoming.
(License currently held by Mantiff Cheyenne Hospitality, LLC d/b/a Ramada Inn Hitching Post
Inn, 1600 West L incolnway, Chey enne, Wy oming.) City  Attorney  Dan White advised the
Wyoming Liquor D ivision h as n otified th e City  tha t th e c urrent h older o f t he liq uor l icense
(Mantiff Cheyenne Hospitality, LLC) was plac ed under a state sa les tax h old effective June 30,
2009, and that the hold was still in effect.  He stated State Statute requir ements prevent transfer
of ownership of a liquor license that is under a sales tax hold. Upon inquiry, Mr. White provided
information on the status of the time fr ame for demolition of debris from the fire la st fall at the
Hitching Post property, and explained the City received a request last week from t he pro perty
owner (CJM Hospitality, LLC) and, subsequently, also from the owner’s insurance company, to
extend the demolition dead line of March 20, 2011 for  an additional 60 day s.  He noted the
insurance company indicated it is still investigating underlying circumstances connected with the
fire, and its obligations under the insurance policy.  Mr. White advised the request is currently
being considered with continuing discussions being held, and commented that if the extension is
approved the City will, hopefully, obtain a commitment from them that all non-structural debris
located inside the fence would be removed by the M arch 20th deadline; that the extension time
frame would onl y extend to remaining  portions of the structure .  He state d the City  has bee n
assured, both by CJM and the i nsurance company, that no further  extensions would be gr anted.
Concern was expressed that timely clean up of the a rea should be ac hieved as the site is located
along one of the  gateways into the Cit y.  There  being no further  comments an d purpose of the
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
“An Ordinance amending Section 9.16.100 (B),  Open House Assembly, of Chapter 9.16,
Offenses By or Against Minors, of Title 9, Public Peace a nd Welfare, of the Code of the City  of
Cheyenne, Wy oming, pe rtaining to the definition of ‘Adult’.”   Speaking  in support of the
ordinance were:  Matthew  Bowen, who e xplained his rea sons for support included e mpowering
18-20 y ear o lds to  b e r esponsible a nd to  u nderstand th e c onsequences o f b reaking th e law;
Debbie T aylor, spokesper son and volunteer  victims advocate  aff iliated with the Wy oming
Chapter of Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) organization, who discussed streng thening
penalties for minor in possession violations, parental perception, and sending a clear message to
youth that undera ge dr inking is not acce ptable, and L isa Scholz, C heyenne Police D ept.,
manager of a Core Prevention Grant that the Department has received that invo lves a “Parents
Who Ho st Lose t he M ost” c ampaign, p rovided s tatistical information af filiated wi th u nderage
drinking and reviewed addiction factors involving youth drinking.  During comments, Cheyenne
Police Chief B rian Kozak re viewed Police D epartment statisti cs fr om rec ent y ears involving
underage drinking, officer time and resources involving response, safety and control measures,
and stated the proposed ordinance would hold 18-20 year olds accountable if they were involved
in hosting a dr inking party.  He a dvised a violation of the pr oposed ordinanc e would be a
criminal off ense a nd would require  the cited individ ual(s) to appea r in Municipal Court.  He
provided brie f informa tion on a community  educa tional prog ram, throug h g rant funding , the
Police Department will be offe ring in the near  future called “Parents Who Host Lose the Most”,
and noted the D epartment is also working  with the local mil itary base on unde rage drinking
issues.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Collins stated there was no
recommendation on the item from Committ ee.  Mr. Collins m oved to appr ove on sec ond
reading, seconded by Ms. Broy les.  Discussion included the f ollowing topics:  I nformation on
underage drinking  and tee n hosting of pa rties involving a lcohol; public educa tion; parental
providers of alcohol to y outh; methods being utilized by  youth to acquire  alcohol; whethe r the
proposed ordinance will make a differ ence; past ordinances approved to assist with training of
alcohol s ervers in b usinesses li censed to  se rve a lcohol, a nd ke g re gistration co ntrol;
inconsistency relative to 18 y ear old s being able to ser ve alcohol in restaura nt liquor licensed
establishments, and c urrent penalties for  underage drinking.  Ms. Broy les moved to amend by
substitute, seconded by Mr. Spiker. I t was noted the pur pose of the substitute i s to chang e the
general penalty provision in Section 9.16.100 (E) by striking the current language and inserting
the following:  “Each violation of this section shall be punished in ac cordance with the ge neral
penalty provisions of City  Code as dete rmined by the Municipal Court.  Each person cited for a
violation o f t his s ection shall appear i n M unicipal C ourt.”  C omment w as m ade t hat a  M IP
(minor in possession) offense should also be a  must appear (in court) offense.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Further discussion followed
and included comments on research involving strategies that limit access of alcohol to underage
individuals; whether harsher punishments will reduce  underage alcohol usage; allocating funds
for more after school programs; teenage vs. adult brain development and youth comprehension
of consequences of a violation; limited resources for evening youth activities; helping youth to
become responsible citizens; and an ordinance providing a deterrent to youth relative to hosting
parties invo lving alcohol.  M ain motion as amended by substitute carried.  V oting “yes” – all
members of the g overning body present with the exception of Ms. Ash and Mr. Collins voti ng
“no”. [City  Clerk’s note: Due  to passag e of the  amendment, the r evised e ntitlement of the
Ordinance is as follows: “An Ordinance amending Section 9.16.100 (B), Open House Assembly,
of Chapter 9.16, Offe nses By or Against Minors, of Title 9, Public Peace  and Welfar e, of the
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, pertaining to the definition of ‘Adult’, and providing a
penalty for violations.”]
“An Or dinance amending  Sectio n 5.12.060, Sales and Consumption--Restrictions, of
Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Beverages, of Title 5, B usiness Licenses and Reg ulations, of the Code
of the City  of Chey enne, Wy oming, to author ize the issuance of  a Mal t Beverage Permit or
Catering Permit limited to malt beverages, with open container waiver, in conjunction with adult
softball/baseball games a nd to urnaments a t th e Pio neer P ark Baseball Co mplex” - - referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
“An Ordinance amending  Ordinance  No. 3419,  which  established a new compensation
schedule fo r m embers of  the  City  Cou ncil of the City  of  Che yenne, to  c larify the  ma nner i n
which c ompensation is  to b e computed, and pr oviding fo r a n e ffective da te” --  re ferred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Pierson).
“An Ordinance repealing in its entirety ,  Chapter 8.44,  Solid Waste, and  creating a new
Chapter 8.44, Solid Waste, of Titl e 8, Health and Safety , of the Code of  the City  of Chey enne,
Wyoming” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] “A Resolution re- appropriating the  Fisca l Year  2011 bud get of the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S . 16-4-112 &  16-4-113 .” Mot ion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried.  (#5258)
“A R esolution authorizing a  str eet na me c hange fr om L ogan A venue to C ampbell
Avenue for the por tion of the stree t originally platted in Kelley’s Addition as Fa irview Avenue
and later known as Logan Avenue, located between East 9  Street and East 10  Street, located inth th
Kelley’s Addition to the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.”  Mr. Collins moved to
adopt, sec onded by  Mr. Valde z.  Mr. Col lins m oved to postpone for  two wee ks (to Fe b. 28,
2011) t o provide n otification to  a ffected p roperty ow ners, s econded b y Dr . Ri nne.  M otion to
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] “A R esolution wh ereby the Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Che yenne a uthorizes a
Special Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Election to be he ld May 10, 2011
as provided by  Wyo. Stat. §15 -9-217 (b) and ( c) which, upon af firmative majority vote of the
qualified voters within the district, will authorize a special assessment of ten (10) mills upon real
property within the district, excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, for
a per iod of four ( 4) y ears” --  ref erred to Fina nce Comm ittee ( sponsors - Mr. Allen a nd Dr.
Rinne).
[CA] “A Resolut ion authorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for G oins
Elementary School, a replat of Civitan Park and Civitan Place ( 60' Right-of-Way), Arp Addition,
5  Filing (as vacated); and Block 66, Interior Heights Addition, to the City of Cheyenne; situatedth
in the NW¼ of Section 7,  T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located southth
of a nd a djacent t o L eisher R oad, between D ey a nd Cr ibbon Av enues)” --  re ferred to  Pub lic
Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
 
[CA] “A Resoluti on authorizing submission of a Minera l Roy alty Capital Construction
Account Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the
Governing B ody of  the  City  of Che yenne to a ccomplish th e Dr y Cr eek Se wer L ine Pr oject -
Yellowstone Road to Mylar Park” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez). 
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing submission of  a Mineral Roy alty Capital Construction
Account Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State L oan and Investment Board on behalf of the
Governing B ody of the City  of Chey enne f or the Ridg e R oad Traf fic Sig nal Replac ement
Project” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] “A Resolution prioritizing the City of Cheyenne’s two applications to the State L oan and
Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne for Mineral Royalty
Capital Cons truction Account (Chapter 3)  Funds” -- r eferred to Financ e Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Transit Division, and Stride L earning Center
for Tr ansit Division bus service for  Stride clients.  Motion (per Consent A genda) c arried.
(#5636)
[CA] Volleyball Offic iating A greement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Re creation Division,
and Of ficials for  Fun Club for a dult Ci ty leag ue volley ball officia ting.  Motion (per  Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5637)
Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the City  of Chey enne, F ire a nd Rescue
Department, and L aramie County  Com munity College  for the sponsor ship of one student per
calendar y ear in the Parame dic Prog ram off ered at L aramie County  Communi ty College .
Reporting for F inance Commi ttee, Mr. Va ldez moved to a pprove, seconded by  Mr. B rown.
Upon inquiry, Chief J im Martin, Chey enne Fire and Rescue D epartment, provided informa tion
on student prog ram c osts and “tra de-off” pr ovisions allowing the c ollege to utiliz e the
Department’s training facility, classroom and burn building, and indicated there is no stipul ation
that after the student completes the program they will work for the City for a specified period of
time.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#5638)
[CA] Cooperative A greement b etween t he C ity o f C heyenne a nd t he S tate o f W yoming,
Department of Environmental  Quality, to develop a w ater quality  reme diation plan for L ake
Minnehaha in Holliday Park (2007-2010 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5639)
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne and RRT Design &
Construction for de sign a nd construction administration of a  Construction and Demolition
Recycling Material Processing System (State Lands & Investments Board/Solid Waste funds) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie C ounty
Community Partnership, I nc., for  enric hment ac tivities for  a Wy oming Children’ s Trust Fund
Grant t o p rovide an outreach p rogram f or y outh a t Ca rey Junio r H igh Sc hool - - r eferred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract be tween th e Cit y of Cheyenne, Y outh A lternatives, a nd L aramie Cou nty
Community Partnership, Inc., for enrichment activities for a Wyoming Children’s Tr ust Fund
Grant t o p rovide a n o utreach p rogram f or youth a t John son Jun ior Hig h Sc hool - - r eferred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Community Based Family Support and Preser vation Grant Contract betwe en the City  of
Cheyenne, Y outh Alternatives, a nd the Wy oming De partment of  F amily Service s, Protective
Services Division, for counseling  service s to families involving y ouths returning  from out-of-
home placement -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and  the State of Wy oming, Department
of State Parks a nd Cultu ral Resources, State Historic Preser vation Offic e, for  a Downtown
Strategic Action Plan -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Western Are a P ower Administration for
compensation of actua l costs for the City  to perfor m a compre hensive hy drology study  of
drainage impacts from construction of a new electric sub-station located near McFarland Avenue
and Walterscheid Boulevard -- referred to Finance Committee.
Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 5496 betwee n the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering De partment, a nd Ay ers As sociates f or a dditional de sign s ervices f or the  Ea st
Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project (Phase IV) (2003-2006, 2007-2010 1% Sales T ax,
Board of Public Utilities, Fede ral Highway Administration funds).  Nathan B eauheim, Assistant
City En gineer, a dvised a  su bstitute mod ification is being pr oposed.  Mr . V aldez mov ed to
approve in an amount not to exceed $82,730.00, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Brown moved to
amend by substitute which increases the c ost by $16,701.54 for a  total modification amount of
$99,431.54, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon inqui ry, Mr. B eauheim explained a por tion of the
increased amount requested in the substitute is d ue to F ederal funding requ irements that arose
resulting in t he n eed to  a cquire a  h istorical p reservation a ssessment t o d etermine w hether the
project a rea i nvolves a  his toric ne ighborhood, a nd dis cussed th e inv olvement o f t he Sta te
Historic Preser vation Boa rd (SHPO).  Upon inquiry , Fr ank Cole, owne r of Cole Shopping
Center, adjacent property to the project, reviewed historical infor mation of the shopping  center
property relative to construction of the initial grocery store, which was in the early 1950's.  Upon
inquiry regarding selection of the subcontra ctor chosen by Ayers and Associates to c onduct the
historical preservation assessment, Andy Dana, Ayers and Associates, explained a non-local firm
was chosen as they have done  some prior proje ct work a lready under the  original contract, and
that the firm has e xperience in pr oviding historica l p reservation assessments.  Concer n was
expressed regarding a non-local subcontractor, and expenses associated with the project.  Motion
to a mend carried.  Vo ting “ yes” – a ll m embers of  the  g overning bo dy pr esent. Com ments
followed re garding the projec t and t he nee d to closely  monitor ex penses.  Ma in motion as
amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with
the exception of Mr. Allen voting “no”.  (#5496)
Consideration of B id #R-18-11 for f urnishing twe lve new 2 011 Police vehicles f rom
Spradley Ba rr Motors, Chey enne, Wyoming, f or the Police De partment ( 2007-2010 1% Sales
Tax).  Mr. Valdez moved to accept the bid in an amount not to exceed $272,016.00, seconded by
Dr. Rinne.  Comments followed re garding an upcoming  Council work session to discuss use of
police vehicles and whe ther action on the bi d should be postponed (to F eb. 28 ) until after  theth
work session. Lt. Monti Allsop, Cheyenne Police Department, advised Ford is ending production
of the Crown Victoria model this year and the cut-off date to submit a purchase request is March
1 .  Upon inquiry , Rudy  Apodac a, Purcha sing D irector, advised it take s one day to issue ast
purchase order if all of the information can be entered by the Police Dept. staff. Lt. Allsop stated
if the order is not placed by the March 1  deadline, there would be additional costs as they wouldst
need to g o back out to bid for a  differ ent vehicle  mod el.  He expl ained the D epartment has
purchased Crown Vic toria’s since  2004 and the c urrent police vehicle  equipment desig ned for
those models could be re-used with the new Crown V ictoria’s to be ordered; if a different model
is acquired, new equipment and accessories would have to be ordered to fit the different model.
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-20-11 for furnishing thr ee ne w 2011 full size 4x 4 one ton
pickup trucks f or the P arks a nd For estry Divisions from Spradley  Ba rr Motors of Che yenne,
Wyoming (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was ma de that due to the Pre sident’s Day Holiday on Monday , Feb. 21,
2011, the following City Council Committee meetings will instead be held on Tue sday, Feb. 22,
2011 in the Municipal Building , 2101 O’Ne il Avenue:  F inance Committee will meet at 11:00
a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet at 12:00 p.m. (Noon) in Council Meeting Room
122.  
           
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 28, 2011 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’ Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming,  f or renewal of exist ing
City liquor licenses (r etail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, ba r and grill licenses, microbr ewery
and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office. 
  
Appointment of Kathe rine Palmer, Ca rol Wurdemann, Te d Ger tsch and L eland G.
Clabots to the Housing and Community  Development Advisory Council; Ray  Fertig, Jr. to the
Building Code Board o f A ppeals; Ke ith C. E ldred  to  the  B oard of  Ad justment, a nd Rob in
Zimmer to the Public Transit Advisory  Board.  Mr. B rown moved to  approve, seconded by Dr.
Rinne.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” – a ll members of the g overning body present with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Re-appointment o f G ene Ma ione to t he B oard of  Ad justment.  Mr . Co llins mov ed to
approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Under other City  Business, Ma jor Dorr  advised he  wa s interested in a genda item #10
(Ordinance i nvolving p ossible m alt b everage s ales a nd c onsumption a t P ioneer P ark B aseball
Complex) and the Council process for speaking on the item. Mayor Kaysen advised public input
could be made at the Finance Committee meeting on Feb. 22, 2011 in Room 122 at 11:00 a.m.
and again on Feb. 28, 2011 at the City Council meeting.
There being  no further  business to come befo re the g overning body , Mayor Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 7:31 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 March 1, 2011