MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-02-28 | CLIP_ID: 204 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 204

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
February 28, 2011
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were : MAYOR - Ri chard L . Kay sen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms . Ash, Mr. B rown, Ms. B royles, Mr. Collins, Mr.
Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb
Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the g overning body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There w ill be no
separate discussion on these items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agend a.)  Upon request by Ms. Ash, and pursuant to
support rec eived by  Mr. Collins and Dr. Rinne, ag enda items #16, a nd #23(b) a nd (c) wer e
removed from the Consent Ag enda. Mr. Collins moved to approve  remaining Consent Ag enda
items, seconded by  Mr. B rown.  Motion car ried. Voting “yes” – all members of  the g overning
body.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on Fe bruary 1 4, 2011.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Service s, and vac ated Council Chamber s.  I nquiry was made  conce rning the
following vouchers: Accurate Construction and Elect rical Services ( $5,585.00), replace fixtures
with energy efficient light f ixtures at Tr ansfer Station; Creative Concre te, Inc. ($8,255.00), off-
site improvements utilizing escrow account funds; Labor Ready ($4,733.37), tempor ary staffing
at the Transfer Station; Maxwell Photography ($496.00), portraits to update Police De pt. picture
board; Health Reach ($300 ), deposition expense involving a wor kers compensation claim, and
Aavon Moving  and  Storage ($175.00), r ent for 2 stora ge conta iner units at Depot Plaza.
Providing information on the aforementioned vouchers for their respective areas/projects w ere
Jim Elias, Publ ic Works Direc tor; Doug Vet ter, City Engineer; Brian Kozak, Chief of Police;
Dan Wh ite, Ci ty At torney, a nd Ca rol I ntlekofer, City Cle rk.  U pon q uery, M r. El ias a lso
provided information on staffing  levels for  the Sanitation Division and possi ble positions to be
filled in the nea r futu re. Motion carried. Voting  “y es” – a ll members of the g overning body
present i n Co uncil Ch ambers.  F ollowing an nouncement o f t he vo te, M r. B rown re turned to
Council Chambers.
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a Public Hea ring to r eceive public comments a nd input for
renewal of  e xisting City  liq uor l icenses ( retail, re staurant, lim ited r etail, re sort, b ar a nd g rill
licenses, microbrewery and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.   City Clerk Carol
Intlekofer noted for the record that the following current liquor licensees did not file for renewal
or were not eligible to submit a renewal application for the 2011-2012 licensing term: Wyo-Mex
II, Inc. d/b/a On the Border (bar & grill liquor license); Mantiff Cheyenne Hospitality, LLC d/b/a
Ramada Hitching Post Inn (retail liquor license); Primos C heyenne d/b/a Scotty’s Pizza Factory
(restaurant liquor license), and Jose Luis Gomez-Salcedo d/b/a Los 3 Caballos (restaurant liquor
license).  Upon inquiry, Officer Steve Neisen, Police Dept., provided information on compliance
checks c onducted f or lic ensees’ TI PS ( Training fo r Intervention Pr ocedureS) tr aining re cords,
and Police Chief B rian Koz ak reviewed  unde rage compliance checks recently conducted, and
stated he would be visiting with one licensee who had failed two compliance checks.  He advised
the department hopes to conduc t compliance c hecks throughout the y ear as we ll as offe ring an
on-line e lectronic op tion f or l icensees to ke ep u p w ith e mployee TI PS tr aining re quirements.
Upon inquiry, Ci ty Attorney Dan Whit e briefly reviewed the status of the Hitching Post retail
liquor license r elative to the c urrent licensee’s bankruptcy status, and explained t hat the current
licensee/Chapter 7 trustee ha d responsibility to file for r enewal, of whic h they did not do. He
explained instead the licensee attempted to transfer the license, which did not move forward, and
that the renewal application filing deadline had now passed. Upon further inquiry regarding TIPS
training, Chief Kozak and Of ficer Neisen advised an interpretation from the Court clarified new
employees have 90 day s in which to rec eive TIPS training. Officer Neisen reviewed ordinance
language and sug gested a review of c urrent city code w ording for possible cla rification.  There
being no further  comments and purpose  of the he aring having been me t, Mayor Kaysen closed
the hearing and referred the applications to Finance Committee.
“An Ordinance amending Section 9.16.100 (B),  Open House Assembly, of Chapter 9.16,
Offenses By or Against Minors, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City  of
Cheyenne, Wy oming, pe rtaining to the definition of ‘Adult’ a nd provid ing a penalty for
violations.” Reporting for Public Service s Commi ttee, Mr. Collins m oved to appr ove on third
and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles. Discussion included the f ollowing topics: Whether
the ordinance will make a difference as a deterrent to curb underage drinking/hosting of parties;
penalty clause; current fines assessed by municipal court judges and offenses requiring a “must
appear” in court; concerns with individuals who are 21 years of age or older providing alcohol to
family memb ers or f riends w ho a re min ors, a nd str engthening the  pe nalty fo r m inor i n
possession (MI P) offe nses and c ontributing to t he delinquency of a minor.  Upon inquiry
regarding citations issued pursuant to a re cent unde rage par ty in volving a lcohol, Police Chief
Brian Kozak advised the  18 year old hosting the pa rty was c ited with a minor in possession
violation and the par ent was c ited for c ontributing to the delinquency of a minor.  Chief K ozak
clarified the municipal judg e has the  authority  to determine w hat offe nses require a cour t
appearance.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mayor Kaysen, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr . Valdez.  Voting “no” – Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins and Mr. Pierson.
(#3913)
“An Or dinance amendi ng Section 5.12.060, Sales and Consumption--Restrictions, of
Chapter 5.12, Alc oholic Beverages, of Title 5, Business L icenses and Reg ulations, of the Code
of the City  of Chey enne, W yoming, to author ize the issuance of  a Malt B everage Permit or
Catering Permit limited to malt beverages, with open container waiver, in conjunction with adult
softball/baseball games and tourna ments at the Pion eer Park B aseball Complex.”  Major Dorr,
speaking for himself a nd also on behalf of member s of Fir st Baptist Church, e xpressed support
for the Cheyenne Grizzlies baseball team and activities but spoke in opposition to the ordinance.
He cited concerns regarding beer sales as a  revenue source for the team; alc ohol consumption
and sales in the proxi mity of youth; ball games as a fa mily oriented e vent; TIPS compli ance;
liability and re sponsibility; potential neg ative infl uence on y outh attending  the g ames, a nd
repercussions of ser ving malt beverages at ball games.  He  offered ideas on other w ays for the
Grizzlies to raise funds.  Ron Kailey, Cheyenne Grizzlies owner, spoke in favor of the ordinance
and sta ted many fans ha ve requested th at ma lt b everages b e se rved a t th e ba ll games, tha t a ll
servers will be TIPS trained, and that he w ould like the opportunity to provide sales.  Repor ting
for Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.
Mr. V aldez mov ed to  a mend Se ction 5 .12.060, Sub section10(c) b y re moving the  wo rd “ will”
and replacing it with the word “shall”, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Va ldez voting “no”.  Mr. Valdez
moved to amend to add a new paragraph (d) in Subsection 10 to read as follows: “The
dispensing a nd consumption boundary  shal l be signed “N o one under  the ag e of 21 y ears
allowed,” and “N o alcoholic bever ages allowe d outside the dispensing  and consumption
boundary,” sec onded by  Mr. Pierson.  J ohn Palmer questioned wor ding of  the proposed
amendment relative to whether the location of the consumption area would be in a good location
in w hich to  vie w t he game.  D iscussion in cluded th e fo llowing topic s:  C ity sta ff inv olved in
approving dispensing and consumption are as; consumption vs. non-consumption area s; keeping
family members tog ether; local fa ns vs. those in att endance supporting a n opposing ba ll team
being sea ted in the same c onsumption area, a nd City ’s cur rent proc edures in reviewing  and
determining appr oval for sales and c onsumption areas. U pon inquiry , J ohn Kneppe r, Staff
Attorney, clar ified the a mendment provides f or the dispensing  and cons umption area(s) to be
accessed only  by  those individuals 21 y ears of ag e or olde r.  F urther disc ussion included:
Purpose of the amendment (separation of minors from alcohol dispensing and consumption area,
and notifica tion that beverages must s tay within the desig nated bounda ries); a lcohol
consumption separation area from minors; Youth Alternatives facility located across the street;
consistency in application of re quirements relative to other City-owned property where alcohol
and youth are present at comm unity events; concerns with alcohol pre sence for f amily oriented
events on City  proper ty; responsible drinking  prac tices; separ ating family  members a ttending
games; commitment by the Grizzl ies owner to monitor the area  and provide security, and state-
wide “Where Do You Draw The Line” campaign.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting  “yes” -- Mr.
Collins, Mr . Pi erson a nd Mr . Sp iker. Vo ting “n o” -- Mr. A llen, Ms.  As h, Mr . B rown, M s.
Broyles, Dr. Rinne, Mr. V aldez, and May or Ka ysen. Upon inquiry , Rick Pari sh, Parks and
Recreation D irector, p rovided i nformation o n s pecial e vents u pon P arks a nd R ecreation C ity-
owned pr operties a nd revie w of propose d desi gnated dis pensing and consumption are as by
various City staff.  Further comments followe d on other pa rks and a reas within the Cit y where
malt bever age sale s and consumptio n is allowed.  Upon inquiry , City  Clerk Carol I ntlekofer
explained the curr ent malt bev erage permit applica tion and staff r eview pr ocess.  Disc ussion
continued on dispensing /consumption areas; consistency in apply ing requirements; basic intent
of the ordinance; proposed ordinance wording that adds games not just softball tournaments as is
currently applicable to Converse a nd Brimmer ball parks; number  of per mits an applicant ca n
apply for within a c alendar year, and consumption permits  vs. malt beverage permits for sales
involving consumption are as. Upon inquiry , Mr. Kneppe r an d Ms. I ntlekofer provided
information on Section 5.12.060, Su bsection C. 2. of the ordinanc e affiliated with consumption
permits (no sales) vs. malt beverage permits (sales).  Mr. Kailey confirmed  Cheyenne Grizzlies
is a for- profit org anization, clarified f ans ar e re questing malt bever ages at games and stated
although sales would provide  funds to the Griz zlies, making a profit was not a driving  force for
requesting the or dinance change.  He  reviewed how sa les at ga mes would be monitored; noted
that ma ny oth er s imilar baseball lea gues a round th e sta te pr ovide be er s ales; c ited a  sc enario
involving anothe r tea m in the state t hat had inquired a bout play ing in Chey enne, due  to a
temporary problem with their baseball field, but that they  requested malt beverages be available,
and responded to questions regarding anticipated number of games where malt beverages would
be sold during  the team’ s season , noting his intent to cease sa les at the 7  inning ba sed onth
policies at other sports facilities.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Allen,
Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown,  Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Vo ting “no” – M s. Broyles,
Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.
“An Ordinance amending  Ordinance  No. 3419,  which  established a new compensation
schedule fo r m embers of  the  City  Cou ncil o f t he City  of  Che yenne, to clarify the  ma nner i n
which compensation is to be computed, and providing for an effective date.”  Mr. Valdez moved
to approve on  se cond r eading, s econded b y Mr . B rown. M otion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” – a ll
members of the governing body.
“An Ordinance repealing in its entirety,  Chapter 8.44,  Solid Waste, and creating a new
Chapter 8.44, Solid Waste, of Title 8, Hea lth and Safety, of the Code of  the City of Chey enne,
Wyoming.”  Rick Fierro, President, RAM Trucking; Drew Kelley, Wyoming Disposal Systems,
and Jim Cla rk, Countryside Disposal, each spoke in o pposition to the ordinance with regard to
private busine sses providing  roll-off c ontainer se rvices.  Topics and c oncerns prese nted
included: Difficulty private businesses have in competing with the City in the area of providing
roll-off c ontainer s ervices; p roposed c hanges contained in  the  or dinance tha t w ill a ffect th eir
businesses and e mployees; construction and demolition w aste, and recyclable disposal se rvices
by the private  section; investment in the community  by  private businesse s; Cit y roll-off f ee
structure, and cur rent re strictions private haule rs have  in offering roll-off c ontainer se rvices
within the City.  Frank Cole, developer, discussed automated curbside pickup of solid waste and
recyclables a nd his concerns re garding unsightly  container  storag e plac ement on non-pic kup
days; p roposed s chedule of  pic kups inc luded in  the  or dinance, a nd su pport for free e nterprise
relative to p rivate haulers.  Joh n Palmer questioned what new changes were being proposed in
the ordinance vs. current City Code.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Mr. Brown.  M r. Brown moved to amend by substitute ordinance, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, advised the substitute addresses the allowable
practice of bringing recyclables to the City  blue bins by  amending Section 8.44.010, Subsection
F. to add two sentences at the end of the paragraph as follows: “Waste generated outside the city
may not be  brought into the city for disposal.  Waste generated outside the ci ty i s prohibited
from being placed into alleys, vacant lots, residential or commercial containers within the City
(including tho se loc ated in pa rks o r o ther c ity fa cilities).  Co unty re sidents ma y us e pr ivate
haulers or dispose of waste at the transfer station. THIS PARAGRAPH DOES NOT PROHIBIT
COLLECTORS OF RECYCLABLE MATERIAL GENERATED OR COLLECTED OUTSIDE
THE C ITY F ROM B RINGING S UCH M ATERIAL IN TO T HE C ITY A ND P LACING IT
INTO THE BLUE BIN CONTAINERS OR DROPP ING IT AT THE T RANSFER STATION;
SUBJECT T O T HE F EES, L IMITATIONS AND RE QUIREMENTS O F TH IS CH APTER.
RECYCLABLE MATERI AL GENERATED  OR COL LECTED OUTSI DE THE CI TY MAY
NOT B E PL ACED I NTO R ESIDENTIAL OR  CO MMERCIAL RECYCLE CO NTAINERS
INSIDE THE CITY NOR MAY THEY BE PLACED OUTSIDE BLUE BIN CONTAINERS IF
THOSE CONTAINERS ARE FULL.”  Pursuant to comment on lack of a penalty affiliated with
disposing of items on the ground if blue bins are full, Mr. Elias advised their goal is to encourage
recycling from residents outside the city limits, and noted further review of littering p enalties
will be conducted prior to final reading of the ordinance.  Upon inquiry, he discussed wording of
“containers” in Sec tion 8.44.030, Subs ection E.6.; provided inf ormation on the City ’s
responsibility fo r t he colle ction, tr ansfer a nd dis posal of  a ll w aste wi thin th e City; pr ivate vs .
City roll-off c ontainer services, which ha s not been specifically codified in the pa st; collection
programs utili zed in other c ommunities, and e xplained that the City ’s roll-off  container
operations a re no t a n e xpansion (i .e. in creasing the  nu mber o f c ontainers) o f c urrent s ervices.
Mr. Elias stated staff is still working on the comprehensive draft of the Solid Waste Master Plan,
which involves re viewing and ana lyzing seve ral a reas, including f inancial a nd opera tional
aspects as well as the Integrated Solid Waste Plan.  Discussion continued on the cost to process
waste; whe ther the issue involving  private businesse s to prov ide roll-of f conta iners wa s
instrumental to be in cluded in the propose d ordinanc e at this time; allowing pr ivate roll-of f
providers to pa rticipate in discussions concer ning pr oposed ordinanc e cha nges; ordinanc e
wording relative to billing (errors) adjustments and time frame in which customers must provide
notification of same, and City’s cost to dispose of waste and maintain City landfill.  During
discussion, Mr. Elias provided fu rther information on the topics raised.  Dr. Rinne raised a point
of or der c oncerning the  a llowance of  fu rther p ublic comment. M ayor Ka ysen r uled h e wo uld
deviate slightly from the normal public participation pr ocess and would allow a dditional
comments from the public to be  made following a 10 minute rec ess. Mayor Kaysen reconvened
the meeting at 8:35 p.m.  The following  individuals spoke further on the  proposed or dinance:
Mr. Cole; Mr. Fie rro; Brian Clark, Countryside Disposal, and Mr. K elley.  Comments included
concerns with customers responsibility to notice and request an adjustment for any discrepancies
in billing statements with a 60 day time limit; blue bins usage volume on weekends; clarification
needed for ordinance wording regarding roll-off containers, and respect for services provided by
private businesses. Motion to amend by  substitute carried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the
governing b ody with the exception of Ms. Ash and Ms. B royles voting “ no”.  Discussion
continued on ordinance Section 8.44.050, Subs ection B. 1. involving re sidential pickup services
and proposed ordinance wording indicating residential collection services would be suspende d
during weeks that beg in with a Monday  of a 5th we ek; operational efficiency, and deliver y of
services o verall i n co njunction wi th assessment o f f ees.  M r. E lias cl arified t hat t he l anguage
contained in Sec tion 8.44.050, Subs ection B.1. indicates the City  may suspend servic es during
that time frame , with proper notice , to provide for  staff training  or equipment maintena nce.
Main motion as amended by  substitute carried.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the g overning
body with the exception of Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles and Mr. Collins voting “no”. 
“An Or dinance a mending va rious se ctions of  Chapter 5 .36, Cir cuses, Ca rnivals,
Exhibitions, and Amuseme nt Rides, within Ti tle 5, Business L icenses and Reg ulations, of the
Cheyenne City Code” -- referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor - Mr. Brown)
“An Or dinance submitt ing to the qua lified proper ty owner s of re al prope rty within the
boundaries o f th e Ch eyenne D owntown D evelopment A uthority D istrict o f Ch eyenne,
Wyoming, e xcluding real prope rty used exclusively  for r esidential purpose s, at a Spec ial
Election on Tuesda y, May 10, 2011, the following  question: ‘Shall a special a ssessment of ten
(10) mills be levied upon the a ssessed value of real pr operty within the boundaries of  the
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District, excluding real property used exclusively
for residential purposes, for a period of four (4) years pursuant to the provisions of Wy o. Stat.
§15-9-217 (b) and (c ) for  the purposes of  (1) a dministrative c osts; (2) landsca ping or
maintenance of public a reas; (3) planning  or mana gement of development or improveme nt
activities; (4) promotion of public e vents; and (5)  activities in support of business rec ruitment
and development?’ ” -- referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsors - Mr. Allen and Dr. Rinne)
“An Or dinance De- Annexing fr om the City  of Chey enne, a  parc el of land situate in a
portion of the south half of  Section 29, T.14 North, R. 65 West, 6  P.M., Ci ty of Chey enne,th
Laramie County, Wyoming, containing 37.0 acres, more or le ss (located in the vicinity North of
Interstate 80, East of Ea st Pershing B oulevard, and Ea st of the KOA Ca mpground are a)” --
referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsors - Mr. Brown and Mr. Spiker)
[CA] “A R esolution a uthorizing a  str eet na me c hange fr om L ogan A venue to C ampbell
Avenue for the por tion of the stree t originally platted in Kelley ’s Addition as Fairview Avenue
and later known as Logan Avenue, located between East 9  Street and East 10  Street, located inth th
Kelley’s Addition to the Cit y of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.”  (Postponed from F eb.
14, 2011).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5259)
“A R esolution wh ereby the  Go verning B ody of  the  City  of Che yenne a uthorizes a
Special Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Election to be he ld May 10, 2011
as provided by  Wyo. Stat. §15-9-217 (b) a nd (c) which, upon affirmative ma jority vote of the
qualified voters within the district, will authorize a special assessment of ten (10) mills upon real
property within the district, ex cluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, for
a period of four ( 4) years.”  Mr. Valdez moved to adopt, sec onded by Mr. Collins.  C omment
was expressed regarding operational concerns involving the DDA organization.  U pon inquiry,
Brett J ones, Chairman, D DA B oard, stated estimated f unding r eceived from the la st effe ctive
mill l evy 4-y ear assessment wa s approximately  $160,000 per y ear.  Motion carr ied.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”.  (#5260)
“A Resolution authorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for G oins
Elementary School, a replat of Civitan Park and Civitan Place (60' Right-of-Way), Arp Addition,
5  Filing (as vacated); and Block 66, Interior Heights Addition, to the City of Cheyenne; situatedth
in the NW¼ of Section 7, T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located southth
of and adjacent to Leisher Road, between Dey and Cribbon Avenues).” To avoid any appearance
of impropriety , Ms. Ash decla red a conflict of intere st (family  owned pr operty in the near
vicinity), and va cated Council Chambers.  Mr. Collins moved to adopt with staff
recommendations #1 and 2, sec onded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry  regarding use of 1%  5 th
penny fu nds to  up grade 7  Str eet, M ayor Ka ysen a dvised h e held an internal me eting wi thth
engineering staff to look at a City non-dedicated street to make safety improvements. Comments
followed on g overning body approval of r oad projects built with 5  penny sales tax dollars andth
state law r equirements; Cit y and school district trad e of properties involving the ne w Goins
school area; 1% project approval process; whether the City committed to the school district that
it would pay for the road work, and developer responsibility to build roads in conjunction with a
project.  During  add itional comments, May or Ka ysen advised the  g overning body  approve s
overall funding a mounts uti lizing 5  penny  funds for stre et projec ts, b ut that there a re ma nyth
projects involvi ng 5  penny  funding  that are approve d administratively , citing e xamples ofth
recent projects and noting the  7  Street work w ould be scheduled for 2012 a nd the g overningth
body will  have the opportunity to a ct upon the contract to be let involving contractor services.
Following further comment expressing  concern with administrative appr oval of proje cts funded
by 5  penny sales tax, moti on to approve carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governingth
body present in Council Chambers.  F ollowing announcement of the vote, Ms. Ash returned to
Council Chambers.  (#5261)
 
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing submission of a Minera l Roy alty Capital C onstruction
Account Grant (Chapter 3) ap plication to the St ate Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the
Governing B ody of  the  City  of  Che yenne to a ccomplish th e Dr y Cr eek Se wer L ine Pr oject -
Yellowstone Road to Mylar Park.”   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5262)
[CA] “A Resolution autho rizing submissi on of a Miner al Roy alty Capital Construction
Account Grant (Chapter 3) application to th e State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the
Governing B ody of the City  of Cheyenne f or the Ridg e Road Tr affic Signa l Replace ment
Project.”  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5263)
[CA] “A Resolution prioritizing the City of Cheyenne’s two applications to the State L oan and
Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne for Mineral Royalty
Capital Construction Account (Chapte r 3) F unds.” Motio n (per Consent Ag enda) car ried.
(#5264)
[CA] “A Resolution author izing the submittal of an application to the  Wyoming S tate Loa n
and Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving fund for an
amount n ot t o e xceed $ 9,400,000.00 fo r t he Sou thern Wat er T ransmission Main - P hase ll
Project and a uthorizing the Dire ctor of the  Board of Public Utilities to ex ecute the applica tion
and all related loan doc uments” -- referred to Fina nce Committee. (Sponsors - Mr. B rown, Mr.
Pierson, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez) 
[CA] “A R esolution a uthorizing su bmission of  a n a pplication to  the  Wy oming B usiness
Council, Business Ready  Communi ty Grant and L oan prog ram, for  funding  throug h the
Managed Data Ce nter Cost Reduction Gra nt prog ram --  ref erred to Fina nce Committee.
(Sponsors - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne)
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the C ity of C heyenne a nd RRT Design &
Construction for de sign a nd construction administration of a  Construction and Demolition
Recycling Ma terial Pr ocessing Sy stem ( State L ands &  I nvestments B oard/Solid Was te fu nds.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $174,397.00).  (#5641) 
 
Contract between th e City  of  Che yenne, Y outh A lternatives, a nd L aramie Cou nty
Community Partnership, I nc., for enrichment activities and to provide a n outreach program for
youth at Carey  J unior Hig h.  Ms. Ash decla red a  conflict of int erest (due to employ ment
involvement w ith fu nding) o n th is i tem a s w ell a s th e ne xt ag enda ite m, a nd vacated Co uncil
Chambers.  Mr. V aldez moved to approve, seconded by  Mr. B rown.  Motion car ried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  (#5642)
Contract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne, Y outh A lternatives, a nd Laramie Co unty
Community Partnership, I nc., for enrichment activities and to provide an outreach program for
youth at Johnson Junior High School.   Mr. Va ldez moved to approve , seconded by Mr. Brown.
Upon inquiry whether a similar opportunity will be provided at McCormick Jr. High School, Dr.
Dick Be rry, As sistant Di rector, Yo uth Al ternatives, ad vised t he p rogram h as evolved t hrough
acquisition o f gr ant fu nding an d ex plained p rogram i nception b egan wi th J ohnson J r. Hi gh
School and as more grant monies have become available it is being extended to Carey Jr. High
School. He stated if additional funding becomes available in the future, expansion of services to
McCormick Jr. High School would be suppor ted.  Motion carr ied.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following  announcement of the vote, Ms.
Ash returned to Council Chambers.  (#5643)
[CA] Community Based Family Support and Preser vation Grant Contract betwe en the City  of
Cheyenne, Y outh Alternatives, a nd the Wy oming De partment of Family  Service s, Protective
Services Division, for counseling  service s to families involving y ouths returning  from out-of-
home placement.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5644)
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the State of Wy oming, Department
of State Parks a nd Cultural Resour ces, State Historic Pre servation Office , for a  Downtown
Strategic Action Plan.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5645)
[CA] Agreement between t he City of Chey enne and Western Are a Power Administration for
compensation of actua l costs for the City  to perfor m a comprehensive hy drology study  of
drainage impacts from construction of a new electric sub-station located near McFarland Avenue
and Walterscheid Boulevard.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5646)
[CA] Contract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne, Po lice De partment, Vi ctim Wi tness P rogram,
and the State of Wy oming, Division of Victim Service s, for Phase I I State salary  funds --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement betwee n the Ci ty of Chey enne, Clea r Cree k L and Company , L LC, Swan
Ranch, LLC, and Granite Peak Development, LLC, to specify infrastructure financing, timing of
annexation, timi ng of community  fac ilities fe e pay ment, and ac cess stand ards to support
economic de velopment ef forts in Chey enne (Annexation Revolving L oan and 2007- 2010 1%
Sales Tax funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract to purchase  land within the Swan Ranch pr operty pursuant to a De velopment
Agreement w ith Gr anite Pe ak D evelopment, LLC ( Community F acilities f ees) --  re ferred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No.1 to Contrac t No. 5381 Coope rative Agreement betwee n the City  of
Cheyenne a nd Wyoming De partment of Transportation for West L incolnway enhanc ements --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 53 77 between the City  of Chey enne,
Sanitation Division, and Alpin e Waste and Re cycling for sorting , processing and marketing of
single stream (recyclable) materials -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 2 to Cont ract No. 5220 between the City  of Chey enne,
Sanitation Division, and Tatooine Elec tronic Sy stems for the r ecycling of ele ctronic w aste --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Amendments No. 3 a nd No. 4 to Contract No. 5516 be tween the City of Chey enne and
Long Building Technologies, Inc. to continue energy efficient upgrades including improvements
to heating and controls in the Municipal Buil ding, Civic Center, Police Department, Fire Station
#1, Flee t Maintenanc e, Tire  and L ube Shop, Logan Ave nue Shop, Street and A lley Shop and
Cemetery Shop (Energy Grant funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 5513 betwee n the City  of C heyenne a nd
Reiman C orp. f or G eneral C ontracting S ervices -  E ast C heyenne G reenway -  P hase III b
(Greenway fund)  -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-20-11 for f urnishing thr ee ne w 2011 full size 4x 4 one ton
pickup trucks f or the Parks a nd For estry Divisions from Spr adley Ba rr Motors of Che yenne,
Wyoming (2 007-2010 1%  Sa les T ax).   Motion ( per C onsent A genda) carried ( amount n ot t o
exceed $85,560.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-21-11 for furnishing 76 new computers and operating systems
for the Cit y of Cheyenne, Information Technology Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Ta x Capital
Equipment fund) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-8-11 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Superior
Electric, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Brimmer Park Lighting Correction project (Partial 2007-
2010 1% Sales Tax and Energy Grant funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-7-11 for  a contr act between the City of Chey enne and Scotch
Boy,  Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Da vid R. Rom ero South Cheyenne Youth Activity and
Community Ce nter project ( Partial Co mmunity F acility fe es a nd do nations) - - r eferred to
Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-22-11 for  furnishing  one new  roug h mower f rom Gre enline
Equipment, Casper, Wy oming, f or the Gro unds and F acilities Division (2007-2010 1% Sales
Tax Capital Equipment fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of  the appointment of Ka therine Ma ggos, KaSandra  Camp,
Como B oyle, M ichael Sa ndidge a nd Ma rk Mc Kay, to  the  Ma yor’s Cou ncil f or Pe ople wi th
Disabilities, to be confirmed March 14, 2011.
Announcement was made of the re-appointment of James Ditsch, Daryl Hensel and Jason
Lewis to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed March 14, 2011. 

[CA] Request to chang e retail liquor di spensing room location and dimensions for Cloud 9,
Inc. d/b/a Cloud 9, 300 East 8  Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee.th
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 14, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O' Neil Avenue , Chey enne, Wy oming, to hea r public comment
regarding the intent of the City  of Chey enne to submit an applica tion for funding  for the
Wyoming B usiness C ouncil's B usiness R eady Com munity Gr ant a nd L oan, Managed D ata
Center Cost  Reduction Progr am, to assist in the establishment of a Da ta Center, f unding
electricity and broadband expenses for three years.
Under other City business:
John Palmer expressed his concerns with the public participation format utilized at City
Council meetings, requesting Council members consider changing the process, and the ability to
find agenda information on the City’s website.  Comment was made later under other business
that meeting agenda information is also available through staff at the Municipal Building.
Don Threewitt, State Historic Preservation Board, provided a brief update on the Board’s
activities and projects, and invited members of the governing body to a Board Strategic Planning
session to be held on March 12, 2011.  Mayor Kaysen requested Mr. Threewitt submit  details on
the meeting place and time that would be shared with City Council members.
Upon inquiry regarding a letter  Council members re ceived from Safe house, Dan White,
City Attorney, provided information regarding the lease of City-owned land to Attention Homes
and dis cussions held betwe en Attention Homes a nd Safehouse  rela tive to assignme nt of the
property lease to S afehouse.  H e stated his concerns with assignment of the lease without City
approval, n oting a ssignment r equirements c ontained in the exis ting le ase, te rms o f t he le ase
regarding ownership of build ings that have be en placed upon the City ’s property, and ser vices
that are to be provided ( i.e. youth crisis service s) at the site.  He  indicated c ommunication was
made with Safe house representatives encouraging review of lease provisions with the City , and
discussed research conducted regarding ownership of permanent fixtures that have  been pla ced
on the prope rty. He noted one  buildi ng on the site was c onstructed with g rant funds f or the
specific purpose of providing youth crisis services by Attention Homes.  He further stated that he
had presented a proposed lease to Safehouse for consideration to submit  to the City  Council for
approval but that Safehouse “ did not ag ree” and the assignment of the prope rty lease  from
Attention Homes to Safehouse  has occ urred.  Upon inquiry , he re viewed possible options on
how to potentially proceed regarding assignment of the lease.
There being no further other business, City Attorney Dan White requested the governing
body me et in  executive se ssion fo r t he so le pu rpose of  dis cussing a  po tential la wsuit a gainst
Laramie County to c hallenge the validity of recently approved County subdivision regulations.
Mr. Pierson moved to meet in executive se ssion, seconded by  Mr. Collins.  M otion carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  M ayor Kaysen announced members would
meet in  ex ecutive session in  Cou ncil Ch ambers, n ot o pen to  the  pu blic; r equested th e City
Attorney, City  Cle rk, and other pe rsons approve d by  the City  Attorney , be pre sent at the
executive session, and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of
the executive session and tha t the reg ular City  Council meetin g would officially adjourn
following closure of the executive session.  ( Clerk’s Note: Executive session convened at 9:22
p.m.; Ms. Ash vacated Council Chambers prior to the e xecutive session being convened and was
not present during the session.)
The mee ting wa s officia lly adjourne d at 9:55 p.m. following c losure of the executive
session.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 March 15, 2011