MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-03-14 | CLIP_ID: 208 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 208

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
March 14, 2011
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were : MAYOR - Ri chard L . Kay sen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. S piker and Mr. Valde z.  Absent: Mr. Coll ins.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk;
Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the g overning body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There w ill be no
separate discussion on these items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to
support received by Dr. Rinne a nd Ms. Ash, ag enda item #17 wa s removed f rom the Consent
Agenda.  U pon reque st by  Dr. Rinne, and pur suant to suppor t received by Ms. Ash and Mr.
Allen, ag enda items #16, 22(b)  and 2 2(d) were  remove d from the Consent Ag enda.  U pon
request by Ms. Ash, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Rinne and Mr. Brown, agenda item
#23(a) was re moved from the Co nsent Agenda . Mr. B rown moved to a pprove r emaining
Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion  carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes f rom Regular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on Fe bruary 28, 2011.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a  voucher payable to
Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, and va cated Council Chambers.  Proce dural inquiry  was made
concerning the process to divide the question.  Mr. Va ldez moved to approve pa yment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Mr. Allen move d to divide the question to allow
for a  se parate vo te on  the  vo ucher p ayable to A meri-Tech H VAC Se rvices, se conded b y Ms.
Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers. Mr. Spiker moved to approve the vouch er payable to A meri-Tech HVAC Services,
seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of t he governing body
present i n Co uncil Ch ambers.  F ollowing announcement o f t he vo te, M r. B rown re turned to
Council Chambers.  Mr. Pierson moved to re move a voucher payable to J .R. Tree Experts from
the voucher payables listing, se conded by Mr. B rown.  Barb Dorr, City  Treasurer, advised he r
office was in re ceipt of a n I RS (I nternal Reven ue Service) Notice of  L evy ag ainst J .R. Tree
Experts, and, upon inquiry , Dan White, City  Attorney, advised he  had re viewed the Notice of
Levy and that it requires the City to pay whatever is owed to J.R. Tree Experts be payable a nd
submitted to  the  I RS. M r. B rown ra ised a  po int of  c larification o n w hether the m otion, in
addition to r emoving it f rom th e pa yables li sting, s hould a lso inc lude tha t it  be  vo ided w ith
payment of monies due issued to the I RS.  Ms . Dorr a nd Mr. White stated their ag reement that
the motion should i nclude wording that the voucher should be removed and voided, and that the
City Treasurer is authorized to issue payment to the IRS.  Mr. Brown offered a frie ndly
amendment to Mr. Pierson’ s motion t o indicate the motion pro posed is to remove the  voucher
payable to J.R. Tree Experts from the payables listing; void the current voucher, and authorize
the City Treasurer to issue payment of monies due to the I RS, seconded by Mr. Pierson. Motion
carried.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present.  Main motion as amended
carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a public hear ing to r eceive comments and input re garding the
intent of the City of Cheyenne to s ubmit an application for funding for the Wyoming Business
Council's Business Ready Communi ty Grant and Loan, Managed Data Center Cost Reduction
Program, to a ssist in the establishment of a Data Center, funding electricity an d b roadband
expenses for three years.  Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager, briefly reviewed the purpose of the
proposed application, wh ich is  to a ssist T hought E quity Mo tion, I nc. to  op en a  tie r t wo da ta
center project in a portion o f t he former SafeCard Building on Pershing  Blvd.  She discussed
elements of the  data c enter projec t, which invol ves the Wy oming B usiness Council; local
benefits; an agreement involving the project that is on the current meeting agenda for referral to
the next Finance Committee meeting, and clarified the City’s role in serving as a sponsor for the
project, which involves no cos t to the City.  She stated the State L oan and I nvestment Board
(SLIB) will have the final decision on approving the grant application, and acknowledged Mike
Emerson with Thoug ht Equity  Motion,  Inc. and Tom J ohnson, Reg ional Direc tor, Wy oming
Business Council, were present to answer any questions.  There  being no further comments and
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
“An Or dinance amendi ng Section 5.12.060, Sales and Consumption--Restrictions, of
Chapter 5.12, Alc oholic Beverages, of Title 5, B usiness Licenses and Regulations, of the Code
of the City  of Chey enne, Wy oming, to authorize the issuance  of a Ma lt Beve rage Permit or
Catering Permit limited to malt beverages, with open container waiver, in conjunction with adult
softball/baseball games and tourna ments at the Pioneer Par k Baseball Complex .”  Major Dorr
expressed opposition to the ordinanc e, citing concerns regarding beer sales at a  family oriented
activity; liability; 2009-10 statistical information from the Wy oming Association of Sheriffs and
Chiefs of Police involving a lcohol rela ted ar rests and c onvictions.  Reporting  for F inance
Committee, Mr. Va ldez advised there  was no recommendation on this  item from Fina nce
Committee.  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove, se conded by Ms. Ash. Upon inquiry , City  Clerk
Carol I ntlekofer s tated th e de finition of  a  ma lt b everage is p rovided in  Wy oming Sta tutes,
adopted by the City, and that anything that can be purchased through a malt beverage distributor
meets the definition of a malt beverage.  Comment followed on other  malt based be verages that
can be consumed in addition to beer under a malt beverage permit.  Ms. Ash m oved to postpone
for 2 we eks (to Mar ch 28, 2011) f or further review with re gard to potential amendments to the
ordinance, seconded by Mr. B rown. Sharon G uerney encouraged Council members to c onsider
impacts of broadening malt beverage distributions and the social norms and environment within
the community, and suggested moving forward with action on the ordinance, as presented, at the
current m eeting. M atthew B owen s poke in f avor o f p ostponement t o a llow t ime fo r C ouncil
members to eval uate the facts affiliated w ith the ordinance . Discussion included the following
topics: Opposi tion to postponement; support for postponement; postponement to allow
additional time to review pr oposed language changes to resolve  some of the c oncerns that have
been r aised; e quality iss ues in volving oth er C ity-owned sit es w here c onsumption a nd ma lt
beverage/catering permits are allowed; P ioneer Park baseball field designed for youth baseball
activities, and introduction of another ordinance on the meeting agenda, to be referred to Finance
Committee, involving te mporary permits of this ty pe.  Upon inqu iry, Ron Kailey , owner ,
Cheyenne Grizzleys, indicated a 2 week postponement will not affect the team’s playing season.
Motion to post pone carried.  V oting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash,  Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne a nd
Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker, and Mr. Valdez.
“An Ordinance amending  Ordinance  No. 3419,  which  established a new compensation
schedule fo r m embers of  the  City  Cou ncil o f t he City  of Cheyenne, to  c larify the  ma nner i n
which compensation is to be computed, and providing for an effective date.”  Mr. Valdez moved
to approve on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Brown. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present. (#3914)
“An Ordinance repealing in its entire ty, Chapter 8.44, Solid Waste, and cre ating a new
Chapter 8.44, Solid Waste, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming.” Matthew B owen e xpressed his conce rns with the City  opera ting a s a “r oll-off
monopoly”; questioned the le gal authority  of the g overning body; commented in support of
private entrepreneurs securing the right to provide roll-off container services; ordinance effect on
private businesses; use of authority ; the need f or clearly stated r easons for support/non-support
of the ordinance by members of the governing body, and questioned the need for the ordinance
to include wording  reg arding roll-off c ontainer se rvices by  private businesse s.  J ohn Fe lzien
questioned e nforcement responsibility re lative to v iolations of  the  or dinance a nd sp oke in
opposition t o the City  having a monopoly  in the roll -off business.  Upon inquiry , Dan White,
City At torney, r eviewed r esearch h e ha d c onducted r egarding mun icipalities’ a uthority to
exercise a monopoly re lative to c ollection a nd dis posal se rvices o f g arbage a nd wa ste wi thin
City limit s. J im Elias, Publ ic Works Direc tor, clar ified that since the  last City Council and
Finance Committee meetings, a mee ting with priva te haulers had bee n held to discuss the issue
of roll-off containers being provided by private businesse s, and that propose d language changes
to the  ordinance have been g enerated f or re view by the City  attorney for c onsideration as a n
amendment, noting a 2 week postponement was requested at Finance Committee.  In response to
public inquiry, Mr. Elias stated the City’s roll-off provider requirements are to protect the health,
safety and welfare of citizens.  Ma yor Kaysen clarified municipal government has the authority
to c onduct business pursuant to Wyoming Statutes, and case law.  Vicki Nemecek, Assistant
Public W orks Di rector, re viewed au thority p rovided b y W yo. S tat. §  1 5-1-103, an d l anguage
contained in the or dinance allowing  the Ci ty to make reasonable  rules and r egulations for
hauling refuse.  Upon further public inquiry, Mr. Elias and Ma yor Kaysen provided information
on the cost to the City to haul solid waste to the landfill in Ault, CO, which helps extend the life
of t he Ci ty’s la ndfill.  F rank Co le, d eveloper, d iscussed h is r esearch o f Ci ty Co de w ording
relative to roll-offs, a nd stated his belief tha t the City should not be in the roll-off business a nd
should a llow pr ivate business to ta ke it ove r.  Lee Bayne expressed concerns t hat addit ional
research should be conducted before third reading and commented that a more “dynamic way”
was ne eded pr ocedurally fo r public engagement.  Mr. Va ldez moved to approve on third a nd
final reading, seconded by Mr. B rown.  Mr. V aldez moved to postpone for 2  weeks (to March
28, 2011) to allow fur ther discussion betwe en staff and priva te haulers, seconde d by Dr. Rinne.
Upon inquiry, Mr. E lias stated the mee ting with the pr ivate providers of roll-of f containers had
been productive and sta ted his belief that a  consensus had bee n reached on pr oposed ordinance
changes, and that he will share a copy of the proposed changes with the private haulers following
City attorney review and approval.  Motion to postpone car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present.
“An Or dinance a mending va rious se ctions of  Cha pter 5 .36, Circus es, Ca rnivals,
Exhibitions, and Amuseme nt Rides, within Ti tle 5,  Business Licenses and Reg ulations, of the
Cheyenne City  Code.”  Mr. V aldez moved to approve  on  second rea ding, se conded by  Mr.
Spiker.  Discussion followed regarding w ording of certain sections of the ordinanc e with B ruce
Wilson, Chief Building Official, explaining that a request to amend by substitute would be made
at the next Finance  Commi ttee to cor rect editorial err ors.  Discussion con tinued on rea son for
removal of  current City Code wording involving garbage, refuse and water fees; i llumination
requirements involving a change from 5 foot candles to 1 foot candles; assembly of rides; current
and proposed ride inspection process, and Level Three National Association of Amusement Ride
Safety Of ficial ( NAARSO) re quirement a nd re sponsible party to p rovide/hire a  NA ARSO
certified inspector to c onduct ride inspec tions.  During disc ussion, Mr. Wi lson provided
information on topics raised.  Concerns were expressed regarding insurance criteria and proof of
coverage, party/parties responsible for reta ining services of the NAA RSO inspector; inspection
procedures during ride set-up and final inspection; ride safety issues, and current potential City
liability c onnected w ith B uilding i nspectors providing i nitial r ide i nspections.  U pon i nquiry,
Dan White, City Attorney, advised an owner or licensee of an amusement ride, or the insura nce
company providing coverage, can retain the NAARSO ce rtified inspector, noting the  inspection
has to be a ccepted by  the insuranc e compa ny befor e it will issue the coverage policy  so the
safeguard f or the City  is the require ment that a copy  of the ride  inspection ce rtificate and
insurance policy  must be i n place before the r ide is put into operation.  Upon inquiry , Mr.
Wilson reviewed concerns with Building inspectors providing ride inspections once a y ear vs. a
NAARSCO certified inspector who is the most familiar with the elements of ride inspections.
Mr. White reviewed risks associated with having City employees inspecting the rides a nd stated
the ordinance will r educe the City’s liability risk.  John Volk, insurance agent, p rovided
information on insuranc e cove rages g enerally.  Mike Whit e, B uilding Department inspector,
provided infor mation on the NAARSO ce rtified inspec tor who is involved with inspection of
rides f or the Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration, stating the inspector is hired by the owner ’s
insurance company and is  very highly regarded and qualifie d in the industry .  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
“An Or dinance submitt ing to the qua lified proper ty owner s of re al prope rty within the
boundaries of the Chey enne Downtown Deve lopment Authority  District of Chey enne,
Wyoming, e xcluding rea l property  used exclusively  for r esidential p urposes, at a Special
Election on Tuesda y, May 10, 2011, the following  question: ‘Sh all a spec ial assessment of te n
(10) m ills be levied upon the assessed value of real property within the boundaries of the
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District, excluding real property used exclusively
for residential purposes, for a period of four (4) years pursuant to the provisions of Wyo. Stat.
§15-9-217 (b)  and (c ) for  the purposes of  (1) a dministrative c osts; (2) land scaping or
maintenance of public ar eas; (3)  planning  or mana gement of de velopment or improveme nt
activities; (4) promotion of public e vents; and (5)  activities in support of business rec ruitment
and deve lopment?’.”  Mr . Valdez moved to appr ove on sec ond rea ding, se conded by  Mr.
Pierson.  Motion carr ied. Voting “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present with the
exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”.
“An Ordinance De-Annexing from the City of Cheyenne, a parcel of land situate in a
portion of t he south half of  Section 29, T.14 North, R. 65 West, 6  P.M., Ci ty of Chey enne,th
Laramie County, Wyoming, containing 37.0 acres, more or le ss (located in the vicini ty North of
Interstate 80, East of East Pershing Boulevard, and E ast of the KOA Campground area).”  John
Volk, Campstool Land Co., reviewed the property location involved in the petition to de-annex;
isolation of ar ea; use of nea rby properties; lack of ne arby availability to Cit y water and sew er
services; property ownership and zoning history, and future plans for the site if de-annexation is
approved w hich would in volve Cou nty pla tting a nd po ssible c ovenants.  Re porting fo r P ublic
Services Committee, Ms. Ash advised ther e wa s no rec ommendation on this it em from the
Committee.  M r. Sp iker mo ved to  a pprove o n s econd r eading, s econded b y M r. V aldez.
Discussion in cluded: C oncerns with d e-annexing the  pr operty; r egulations fo r C ity vs . Co unty
zoning and development requirements, including landscaping; property and proposed future use
of the prope rty if it is de-anne xed, and a rea serving as par t of the ae sthetic gateway to that side
of the community.  Upon inquiry, Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, discussed differences
between City and County zoning classifications and uses allowed; recently adopted new County
subdivision regulations with landscaping requirements less than what is required in the City, and
water and sewer requirements relative to use of the property.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Volk stated his
company would cre ate pr operty covena nts, stating ty pically covena nts address suc h things a s
exterior building ty pes, fe ncing, structure height; advised City  Code allows for a  reque st for
landscaping variances through the Board of Adjustment, and noted the big gest issue is providing
restrooms on the pr operty.  Motion carr ied.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the g overning body
present with the exception of Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles and Mr. Pierson voting “no”.
“An Ordinance amending a portion of Or dinance No. 3891 by  modifying the conditions
within the zon ing c lassification of MUB Con ditional Mi xed Us e wi th B usiness E mphasis
District f or L ots 1  a nd 2 ; a nd t he n orth 6 6-feet o f L ots 3 and 4, Block 1 95, O riginal C ity,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the inter section of E. 23r d Street and
Russell Avenue)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
“An Or dinance amending  Section 5.12.040, I ssuance-Term of L icenses and
Permits–Renewal of A nnual L icenses, of Chapter 5.12, A lcoholic Beverages, of Title 5,
Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to impose
certain ad ditional r estrictions on  the  sa le of  a lcoholic be verages p ursuant t o te mporary ma lt
beverage permits and catering permits on City-Owned and City-Managed property” -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
“A Resolution authorizing the submittal  of an application to the Wy oming State L oan
and Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving fund for an
amount n ot t o e xceed $ 9,400,000.00 fo r t he Sou thern Wat er T ransmission Ma in -  Pha se ll
Project and a uthorizing the Dire ctor of the  Board of Public Uti lities to ex ecute the applica tion
and all related loan documents.”  Mr. Valdez moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon
inquiry, Her man Noe, Bo ard of P ublic Utiliti es, cla rified a  portion of the Southern Water
Transmission Main is adjacent to the South Side Water and Sewer District, and verified, per
wording contained in the Re solution, t hat a rate incr ease may  be af filiated with funding  the
project.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present with the
exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#5265)
“A Re solution a uthorizing su bmission of  a n a pplication to  the  Wy oming B usiness
Council, Business Ready  Communi ty Gra nt and L oan program , for funding throug h the
Managed Data Center Cost Reduction Gra nt program.”  Mr. Va ldez moved to adopt, seconde d
by Mr . B rown.  M otion c arried. Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll m embers of  the  g overning bo dy pr esent.
(#5266)
Following a 12 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:20 pm.
[CA] “A Resolution  authorizing the City  Treas urer to discharg e uncollec tible debts in the
amount of $94,648.02, pursua nt to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502” - - re ferred to F inance Commi ttee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] “A Resolut ion directing  the City  Clerk to defe r ac ceptance of  applications for  one (1)
Retail and one ( 1) B ar a nd Grill liquor license, whic h licenses will re vert to the City  of
Cheyenne on Ma rch 31, 2011, a nd one (1)  additional Retail liquor li cense, which ma y be
authorized to the Ci ty pursuant to provisions of W yo. Stat. § 12-4-101, and e stablishing
guidelines to be used by the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne to review applications for
said licenses” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen).
[CA] County Preliminary Plat for Overland Trails Business Park  f or a portion of the E½ of
Section 14 and a portion of the NE¼ of Section 23, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Laramie County,
Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to I-25, south of W. College Drive) -- referred to Public
Services Committee. 
[CA] County Preliminary Plat for Niobra ra Ene rgy Park for  a par cel of  land situated in a
portion of the N½ of  Section 9, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P .M., Laramie County,Wyoming (located
west o f S . Co llege Dr ive (b ehind L ighthouse B aptist C hurch a nd no rth o f Laramie Cou nty
Community College) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Contract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne, Pol ice De partment, Vi ctim Witn ess P rogram,
and the State of Wyoming, Division of Victim Service s, for Phase I I State salary.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5647)
Agreement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Clear Cree k L and Company , L LC, Swan
Ranch, LLC, and Granite Peak Development, LLC, to specify infrastructure financing, timing of
annexation, timing of  community  fac ilities fe e pay ment, and ac cess standa rds to support
economic de velopment ef forts in Chey enne (Annexation Revolving L oan and 2007-2010 1%
Sales Tax funds).  Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, advised there is an update to the map
and other wording changes since a  substitute had be en presented at the last Fina nce Committee
meeting, a nd re quested th e substitute a pproved a t F inance be  re placed w ith a  ne w s ubstitute
(dated 3/14/11).  Mr. Valdez moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Valdez moved to
amend by  substitut e, sec onded by  Mr. B rown.  Co mments followed on not approving  the
substitute addressed at Finance Committee pursuant to Mr. Ashby’s request for a new substitute.
Motion failed.  Voting “no”  -- a ll members of the g overning body present.  Mr. Pierson moved
to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Mr. Ashby clarified the substitute dated March
14, 2011 provides for  cler ical cor rections, updates to the map, and r efines lang uage def ining
culverts.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Main motion as amended by  substitute carried.  V oting “yes” -- all member s of the g overning
body present.  (#5648)
Contract to purc hase land within the Swan Ranch pr operty pursuant to a De velopment
Agreement w ith G ranite P eak D evelopment, L LC ( Community F acilities f ees).  M att A shby,
Planning Services Director, requested the substitute prese nted and recommended for approval at
Finance Committ ee be  voted down and a  new substitute dated Ma rch 14, 2011 instea d be
approved.  Mr. Valdez mov ed to  a pprove, s econded b y Mr . Pi erson.  M r. Va ldez mov ed to
amend by substitute, sec onded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Ashby  revie wed c hanges included in the
proposed new substitute involvi ng typographical corrections, elimination of sections concerning
liquidated damag es and r eferences to ea rnest money , and update s to the mapping  and leg al
descriptions.  Mot ion to am end failed.  Voting  “no” - - all member s of the g overning body
present.  Mr. Pierson moved to amend by  substitut e date d Marc h 14, 2011, seconde d by Mr.
Valdez.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Upon inquiry regarding a ca lculated cost to turn the are a into public open space, Rick P arish,
Parks and Recreation Director, advised research has not yet been conducted regarding estimated
costs to construct the public open space area, and that short-term use of the area will continue to
be g razing until the long-te rm g oal to develop the public open space amenity  can be
implemented.   Mr. Ashby clarified the Agreement provides an opportunity for the developer to
enter into a grazing lease with the City which would be based similarly to the graz ing le ase
involving the Belvoir Ranch.  Comment followed on the need to evaluate the cost affiliated with
developing a nd m aintaining t he p ublic o pen s pace.  M ain m otion a s a mended b y s ubstitute
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  (#5649)
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and  Boys and Girls Club of Cheyenne, Inc. to
lease the city owned building located at 1700 Snyder Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to
Finance Committee.  
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres Associates for
the Holliday Park Connector Project for a pedestrian connection (Greenway funds) -- referred to
Finance Committee.  
[CA]  Funding Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, an d t he W yoming De partment of
Transportation,  for the E ast Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project (Phase IV) (2003-2006,
2007-2010 1% Sales Ta x, Board of Public Utili ties, Federal Highway Administration funds) --
referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Chey enne and Thought Equity Motion, Inc. establishing
responsibilities a nd c onditions o f r equirements se t f orth b y the  Wy oming B usiness C ouncil,
Business R eady Com munity Grant a nd Loan Pr ogram, f or fu nding thr ough th e Ma naged D ata
Center Cost Reduction Grant Program -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]  Memorandum of Understanding bet ween the City of Cheyenne, and Cheyenne Frontier
Days, Inc., for usage of city-owned parcels and structures for the 2011 Cheyenne Frontier Days
celebration -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for wellness coaching --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No.1 to Co ntract No. 5381 Coopera tive Ag reement betwee n the City  of
Cheyenne a nd Wy oming De partment o f T ransportation f or West  Lincolnway e nhancements.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5381)
Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 5377 betwee n the Ci ty of Chey enne,
Sanitation Division, and Alpine Waste and Rec ycling for sorting , processing and marketing of
single s tream ( recyclable) ma terials.  M r. V aldez m oved to  a pprove, s econded b y M r. Brown.
Upon inquiry regarding Exhibit A of the contract and the types of plastics and glass ac cepted,
Jim Elias, Public Works Director, clarified discussions with Alpine indicates they may be willing
to accept more pla stics, but advised g lass is not feasible a t this time as it is considere d to be a
contaminant in the recycling process.  He clarified the contract modification only involves a one
year extension t o the exist ing agreement term.  Motion carr ied.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present. (#5377)
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 2 to Cont ract No.  5220 betwee n the City  of Chey enne,
Sanitation Division, and Tatooine Electronic Systems for the recycling of electronic. Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5220)
Amendments No. 3 and No. 4 to Contrac t No. 5516 betwee n the City  of Chey enne and
Long Building Technologies, Inc. to continue energy efficient upgrades including improvements
to heating and controls in the Municipal Building , Civic Center, Police De partment, Fire Station
#1, Flee t Maintenanc e, Tire  and L ube Shop, L ogan Ave nue Shop, Street and A lley Shop and
Cemetery Shop (Energy Grant funds).  Mr. Valdez moved to approve in an amount not to exceed
$775,838.94 (includes grant funding and City’s match), seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Upon inquiry,
Vicki Neme cek, A ssistant P ublic Works Director, pr ovided information on the a vailability of
savings measurement data, noting preliminary measurements have been taken but completion of
the B rimmer Park  area must be complete d befor e an ove rall asse ssment can be  made.  She
advised r eview o f t otal ut ility c osts shows th e City  is r ealizing so me sa vings b ut a n a ccurate
assessment of savings will not be available until more historical data is kn own. M s. Nemecek
reviewed wha t buildings and proje cts are included in the ame ndments.  I n response  to query
concerning the number of y ears to realize saving s/payback, Ms. Ne mecek stated the media n
would be an a verage of a  20 y ear payback, and discussed life e xpectancy of equipment re lative
to realization o f s avings. Co mments f ollowed o n u pgrades th rough r eplacement o f a ging
equipment and life expectancy of equipment.  It was noted the City has the option to not request
any fu rther a mendments un der t he or iginal c ontract.  Mo tion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll
members of the governing body present.  (#5516)
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 5513 betwee n the City  of Chey enne and
Reiman C orp. f or G eneral C ontracting S ervices -  E ast C heyenne G reenway -  P hase III b
(Greenway fund).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5513)
Consideration of Bid #R-21-11 for furnishing 76 new computers and operating systems
for the City  of Chey enne, Information Technology Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax Capital
Equipment f und).  M r. Va ldez mov ed to  a ccept t he bid  fr om H oward Industries, Inc., Laurel,
MS, in an am ount n ot t o e xceed $ 39,672.00, s econded b y M r. B rown.  U pon in quiry, T yler
Nelson, Assistant Director, Information Technology Division, provided information on the age
of the c omputers that will be re placed; software compatibility issues involving older c omputers
and the Division’s annual user replacement plan.  Concern was expressed with the City’s Lotus
Notes e-mail system and effects of not acquiring the proposed equipment for a year to possibly
utilize the funds to acquire a different e-mail system.  Mr. Nelson confirmed the e-mail software
being used is up-to-date  and is compara ble to other softwa re, and stated upg rading to a new e -
mail system would be more c ostly than the fund ing that is available f or the propose d annual
equipment purc hases. The resa Sny der, D irector of I nformation Te chnology, revie wed L otus
Notes’ f unctionality e lements; im plementation o f t he so ftware pr ogram pu rsuant t o p ast C ity
Council direction, history  of the a nnual equipment re placement plan and e ffects on users if the
plan w ere no t in  pla ce, a nd e xplained th e pr ocess e ntailed in  re searching e -mail d ocuments
pursuant to a recent request for public records.  Comments followed on use of 5  penny money,th
as authorized by voters through the 1% ballot question, for the purchase vs. an e- mail system,
and cost per computer per the bid submitted.  Ms. Snyder advised the bid amount was the lowest
that has been received in past years, and Mr. Ne lson explained the cost of a business cla ss work
station computer is differ ent, including maintenance/replacement provisions, than the cost of a
computer for home use.  Motion ca rried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the g overning body
present. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-8-11 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Superior
Electric, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Brimmer Park Lighting Correction project (Partial 2007-
2010 1% Sales Tax and Energy Grant funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $59,500.00). (#5650)
Consideration of B id #M-7-11 for  a contr act between the City  of Chey enne and Scotch
Boy,  Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Da vid R. Romero South C heyenne Youth Activity and
Community Center project (Partial Community Facility fees and donations).  Mr. Valdez moved
to accept the bid in an amount not to exceed $156,614.18, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Valdez
moved to amend by substitute which reduces the not to exceed amount to $137,206.48, seconded
by Mr. Pierson.  M otion to amend carried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present. (#5651)
Consideration of B id #R-22-11 for f urnishing one  new ro ugh mower f rom Gre enline
Equipment, Casper , Wy oming, f or the Gr ounds and F acilities Division (2007-2010 1% Sales
Tax Capital Equipment fund).  Jason Sanchez, Direc tor of Grounds and Facilities, explained the
need f or the ne w mower  t hat has a w ider swa th and is more fue l effic ient, stating 2 mowe rs
would be involved as tra de-ins.  He  discussed maintena nce costs and d owntime being incurred
with the curr ent mower  model; companies who  submitted bids and the diffe rent models that
were bid; purpose f or issuance of an a ddendum to the bid that allowed a cceptance of anothe r
bidder, a nd ma intenance, e quipment r eplacement and se rvice re quirements ou tlined in  the  bid
document.  Aa ron Morrison, Gr eenline Equipment, provided an upda te on re visions and
improvements that have been made to the type of mower unit submitted in the bid and stated past
models have experienced problems in suc h areas as air circulation, hydraulics, valves an d the
motordeck. H e c onfirmed G reenline c an me et t he 2 4 h our r esponse s ervice a nd e quipment
replacement require ments.  Mr . Valdez moved to approve  the bid submitt ed by  Gre enline
Equipment, Casper, WY, in an amount not to exceed $27,826.00, se conded by  Mr. Pierson.
Upon inquiry regarding any needed equipment repairs, Mr. Morrison clarified the machine could
be re turned to Casper  for r epair, or a ba sic repa ir might be  done on-site throug h a compa ny
mobile re pair un it, a nd the y wo uld do  wh atever n eeded to  be  do ne wi thin th e 24  ho ur re pair
time. Upon inquiry, Mr. Sanche z explained it was diff icult for him to make a r ecommendation
on the low bid submitted based on past maintenance cost and downtime experience involving the
current mower.  He noted tha t Greenline met bid spec ifications, have submitted documentation
supporting improvements to the mower unit containe d in their bid, and that Gr eenline was the
lowest bidder.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Morrison provided equipment war ranty information for the
model th at w as b id.  Di scussion in cluded: Bid sp ecifications g enerally vs . b y sp ecific
models/brands; pu rchasing pr ocedures; m aintenance c ost a nd e quipment r eliability c oncerns;
warranty, and bid tabulation/rec ommendation information issued by  the Purcha sing D ivision.
Motion carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present with the exception
of Mr. Spiker voting “no”.
[CA]  Consideration of Bid # R-14-11 for f urnishing one new 3/4 ton pickup with snow plow
for t he City of  Che yenne, T ransit D ivision ( Federal T ransportation G rant f unds) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-23-11 for t he surplus sale of 115 Motorola Mobile Radios from
the City of Cheyenne, Police Department -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-9-11 for  a Co ntract between the City  of Chey enne and Knife
River for annual Contract for hot plant mix, asphalt tack oil and cold mix for the Street and Alley
Division -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-10-11 for  a Contrac t between the City  of Chey enne and Knife
River for annual Contract for furnishing aggregate for the Street and Alley Division -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA]  Renewal of existing City liquor licenses (r etail, restaurant, limited retail, resort,  bar  and
grill licenses, microbrewery and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  The name of
said applicant, type of lice nse and de scription of pre mises which applicant de sires to use as the
place of sale are set forth as follows: Wigwam, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package Liquor,
retail, 2105 E. L incolnway; Cheyenne Va il I nvestments, I nc. d/b/a Gus &  J on’s Crown B ar,
retail, 222 West Lincolnway; Poor Richard's d/b/a Poor Richard’s, retail, 2233 E. Lincolnway;
W.W. Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Les’ Lamp Lounge and Drive-In Liquor, retail, 101 W. 6th St.; The
Blue Bird, Inc. d/b/a Uncle Charlie's, retail, 6001 Yellowstone Road; Langhoff Enterprises d/b/a
Two Bar Bowl, reta il, 740 Carlson; Chey enne O TB, L LC d/b/a W yoming OT B, r etail, 3307
Nationway; Fraternal Order of Eagles Aerie #128, ltd. retail, 1600 Thomes Ave .; B.P.O. Elks
#660, ltd. retail, 100 E. 17th St .; W . E. Dinneen, Inc. d/b/a [t o b e determined], retail, 400 W.
Lincolnway; KEG, Inc. d/b/a D.T.’s Liquor Mart & Tusker Bar, retail, 3310 Ridge Road; JKLL,
Inc. d/b/a The Drunken Skunk, retail, 1617 Capitol Ave.; Twin Dragon Chinese Rest., Inc. d/b/a
Twin Dragon, rest., 1809 Carey Avenue; South Side Bar, Inc. d/b/a Keg 'n Kork Liquors, retail,
822 Central Ave .; Rande’s Ritz, L LC d/b/a Midtown Tavern, r etail, 1303 E. Pershing  Blvd.;
Cheyenne Country Club, ltd. retail, 800 Stinner Road; F & G Corp. d/b/a The Green Door, retail,
301 E . L incolnway; E NI, I nc. d /b/a E agle's N est, r etail, 1 101 W.  L incolnway; O utback
Steakhouse o f F lorida, L LC d /b/a Outback S teakhouse, r etail, 1 626 F leischli P arkway;
Lambousis R evocable Tr ust d/ b/a Ma yflower, re tail, 11 2 W.  17 th S t.; F our Wi nds, Inc. d/b /a
Four Winds, retail, 1103 E. Pershing; EKG, Inc. d/b/a D.T.'s Package Liquor and Lounge, retail,
2121 E. L incolnway; Alf in Wy oming Ente rprise, L LC d/b/a Alf' s Pu b and Package L iquor,
retail, 1622 E. 19th S t.; Flatland Investments, L LC d/b/a Godfather 's Piz za, rest., 5719
Yellowstone Road; Francis E. Self Post #6 d/ b/a The American Legion Post #6, ltd. retail, 2001
E. Lincolnway; F.E. Warr en Post #1881 d/b/a V.F.W. P ost #1881, ltd. retail, 2816 E. 7th S t.;
Knights of Columbus Council #801 d/b/a Casey's Club, ltd. retail, 507 W. 28th St.; Blanne
Enterprises, Inc. d /b/a Coo l Riv er Wi ne & Spi rits, retail, 52 25 Yellow stone Rd. ; A irport Go lf
Club, I nc., ltd. reta il, 4801 Central Ave.; Qiu Wei Sheng  d/b/a Golden House Chinese Rest.,
rest., 1651 Care y Ave., #8; Ka trina M. and Ada m L . Howell d/b/a Scooter's  Scoreboard B ar,
retail, 507 E. Lincolnway; Cloud 9, Inc. d/b/a Cloud 9 Rest. and L ounge, retail, 300 E. 8th Ave.;
Texas Roadhouse of Chey enne, L LC d/b/a Texas Roadhouse, retail, 1931 Bluegrass C ircle;
HEJE, I nc.d/b/a Outlaw L iquors, reta il, 4503 W estern Way ; KZ  Corporation d/b/a Goofy ’s
Tavern, retail, 2801 E. L incolnway; Stillwater, Inc. d/b/a Ming les, retail, 1618 St illwater Ave.;
Prairie View Golf Club, ltd. retai l, 3600 Windmill Road; Albany, Inc. d/b/a Albany  Rest., Ba r
and Liquormart, retail, 1506 Capitol Ave.; Mehn, Inc. d/b/a Casa De Trujillo, rest., 122 W. 6 th
St.; S&W Properties, LLC d/b/a Vinos Wine and Spirits, reta il, 453 Vandehei Ave., #190;  The
Plains Hotel Co., LLC d/b/a The Plains Hotel, resort, 1600 Central Ave.; Real Mexican Foods,
Inc. d/b/a L os Amigos Rest.,  re st., 620 Central Ave.; Ava nti, I nc. d/b/a De ll Rang e L iquor,
retail, 3806 Dell Rang e Blvd., Suite 4; Piz za Hut on Yellowstone, I nc, rest., 5320 Yellowstone
Rd.; Hotel West I, LP d/b/a Holiday Inn Cheyenne, resort, 204 W. Fox Farm Rd.; AMVETS Post
#10, ltd. retail, 3839 E. L incolnway; Moreno &  Reyes, LLC d/b/a Guadalajara Family Mexican
Rest., rest., 1745 Dell Rang e Blvd.; Pizza Hut of Chey enne d/b/a P izza Hut/Wing Street, rest.,
4503 Western Way; Bighorn Associates, LC  d/b /a Chili's Southwest Grill and Ba r, retail, 1320
Dell Range Blvd.; Appaloosa Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Sanford’s Grub & Pub, retail, 115 E. 17th
St.; Maria Ramos d/b/a El Charrito Mexican Restaurant, rest., 216 E. 17th St.; Wild West Apple
Ventures d/b/a Applebee 's Neighborhood Grill and B ar, retail, 1401 Dell Range  Blvd.; Delilah
R. Pi neda d/b/a E stevan's Cafe, r est., 1820 Ridge Road; GMRI , Inc. d/b/a Red L obster #639,
retail, 1923 Dell Rang e B lvd.; Dy nasty Café, I nc. d/b/a Dy nasty Cafe, rest., 600 W. 19  St.;th
Mondello Corporation d/b/a L’Osteria Mondello, rest., 1507 Stillwater; China Buffet, Inc. d/b/a
China Buffet, rest., 1958 Dell Rang e Blvd.; R GLM, Inc. d/b/a Ava nti Italian Rest., rest., 4620
Grandview Ave.; Shadows Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Shadows Pub & Grill, rest., 115 W. 15th St.,
#1; Nagle-Warren Mansion, LLC d/b/a Nagle-Warren Mansion LLC, rest., 222 East 17  St.; OCth
Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Old Chicag o Rest., retail, 1734 M eadowland Dr.;  Sandra J. I nnis d/b/a 2
Doors Down, rest., 118 E. 17th St. ; So o Hyun Choi, LLC d/b/a Tokyo Bowl, rest., 1829 Dell
Range Blvd.; J erry P. I nnis d/b/a Pi zzeria Venti, re st., 112 E. 17  St.; S hadows Brewing Co.,th
LLC d/b/a Shadows Pub & Grill, microbre wery, 115 W. 15th St.; Suite 1901, CL LC d/b/a The
Winery at 1901, winery , 1901 Central Ave .; OG of Chey enne, I nc. d/b/a The  Olive Gar den
Italian Rest., ba r & grill, 1536 Dell Range Blvd.; Moreno and Aguilar, LLC d /b/a H acienda
Guadalajara, bar &  grill, 317 E. L incolnway; O’Jacks on’s, Inc. d/b/a  Jackson’s All Americ an
Sports Bar & Grill, bar & grill, 1121 Old Town Lane; Suite 1901, CLLC d/b/a Suite 1901, bar &
grill, 1901 Central Ave.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Appointment o f K atherine M aggos, Ka Sandra C amp, C omo Bo yle, M ichael S andidge
and Ma rk McKay , to t he Ma yor’s Cou ncil f or Pe ople wi th D isabilities. Mr . B rown mov ed to
approve, seconded by  Mr. Valde z.  Mot ion car ried.  Voting  “y es” - - all member s of the
governing body present with the exception of May or Ka ysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointment).
Re-appointment of James Ditsch, Daryl Hensel and Jason Lewis to the Mayor’s Council
for People with Disabilities. Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  M otion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
[CA] Request to chang e retail liquor dispensing room loca tion and dimensions for Cloud 9,
Inc. d/b/a Cloud 9, 300 East 8  Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda)th
carried.
Announcement was made of the a ppointment of Dr. Mar k Rinne to the Downtown
Development Authority Board to be confirmed March 28, 2011.
Under other business:
Ms. Broy les inquired a bout the status of a liquor license e who ha d failed Police
Department underage compliance checks pursuant to review of annual liquor licensee renewals.
Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised r epresentatives from the establishment wer e present at the
Finance Committee meeting , but no questions were  posed to them.  Comments included
indication that the licensee involved has indicated TIPS training would be provided to employees
and time frame, per City Code, in which emplo yees must receive training.  Ms. I ntlekofer noted
that Police Chief B rian Kozak a nd Offic er St eve N eisen ha d discussed City  Code wording
regarding the time frame for training at the last City Council meeting and had indicated a review
should be made to see if any clarification changes should be considered.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , May or Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 9:34 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
March 24, 2011