MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-03-28 | CLIP_ID: 211 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 211

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
March 28, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and
Mr. Valdez.  Absent: Mr. Pierson.  A lso present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Ms. Broyles, and pursuant to support received
by Mr. Collins and Mr. Allen, agenda items #14 & 15 were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr.
Collins  moved to approve  remaining Consent Agenda items, sec onded by Mr. Brown.  Mot ion
carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 14, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Collins each declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to
vouchers payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and the B icycle Station, Inc. respectively, and
vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Spiker move d to appro ve payment of vouche rs as pre sented,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Inquiry was made concerning the following vouchers:  Casper Star Tribune
($89.96), legal notice for Open House Assembly ordinance; Cornerstone Programs Corp. ($10,000)
payment per c ontract for juvenile de tention services for F eb. 2011; Division of Victim S ervices
($1,163.46), return unused federal grant funds due to resignation of victim services coordinator; La
Familia ($750.00), adve rtising and live broadc asting for a nnual Super Da y event; Labor Ready
($2,131.92), tempor ary labor staf fing (Tra nsfer Station). Providing information on the
aforementioned vouchers were: City Treasurer Barb Dorr, Mayor Kaysen, Police Lt. Mark Munari,
Parks a nd Re creation D irector Ri ck Pa rish a nd A ssistant D irector T odd Feezer, Pu blic Works
Director Jim Elias, and Solid Waste Manag er D ennis Pino.  Mr. Spi ker move d to amend by
removing the voucher payable to La Familia in the amount of $750.00 from the payables listing to
allow for payment after services are rendered, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Feezer
stated he did not believe contract provisions ask for payment in advance.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Main motion as amended
carried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll mem bers of the  g overning bo dy pr esent i n Co uncil Ch ambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Collins returned to Council Chambers. 
“An Ordinance amending Section 5.12.060, Sales and Consumption--Restrictions, of Chapter
5.12, Alcoholic Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to authorize the issuance of a Malt Beverage Permit or Catering Permit
limited to malt beverages, with open container waiver, in conjunction with adult softball/baseball
games and tournaments at the Pioneer Park Baseball Complex.”  Ron Kailey, Cheyenne Grizzlies
owner, confirmed that Cheyenne Grizzlies is a community business and explained the group provides
clinics for youth and fund raisers for non-profit organizations.  Reporting for Finance Committee,
Mr. Valdez moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Mr. Valdez moved
to postpone for 2 weeks (to April 11, 2011), seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon request, Mr. Valdez
withdrew the motion to postpone, with concurrence by Mr. Brown as second to the motion, in order
to allow discussion on the main motion.  Comments were made regarding activities held in City
parks that include alcohol consumption through issuance of permits, including particular reference
to an upcoming activity in Lions Park, and regulation of distribution and c onsumption of beer at
Grizzlies games at Pioneer Park through permitting and regulatory measures that Mr. Kailey has
indicated he will provide.  Upon inquiry , Rick Pari sh, Parks and Recreation Director, explained
many different events go through their office for permitting and diagrams outlining dispensing and
consumption areas are reviewed closely by staff prior to signing off.  He noted he did not recall the
aforementioned activity scheduled for L ions Park, and Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk, advised the
activity involving a c onsumption permit was brough t to her attention shortly  before the c urrent
meeting, advising that a consumption permit had been issued for the event, which was listed on the
application form as a run and barbeque.  Discussion included the following topics: Ordinance intent;
permit application staff review and approval process; various venues and retail marketing/products
that expose youth to alcohol; fairness and equality issues; limitation on the number of malt beverage
permits that can be  issued at the same  location, as ou tlined in State Statute, and individual
application/approval process for e ach requested date by the Grizzl ies to serve  malt bever ages at
baseball games. Upon inquiry, Ms. Intlekofer clarified that a separate permit application would be
required for each date requested to sell malt beverages with separate review of each application for
approval, and Police L t. Mark Munar i advised off -duty police officers can be hire d to provide
security in conjunction with a permit to sell malt beverages at the games.  Mr. Kailey acknowledged
that he understood approval of a permit would be on a game-to-game basis; commented they will
provide extra security with off-duty police officers and that he was aware there would be an affiliated
cost, and stated if problems arose or sales were not financially favorably, he could decide not to
apply for pe rmits. He furthe r commente d that approva l of the ordinanc e would provide  the
opportunity to provide malt beverage sales, similar to other leagues in the state.  Mr. Valdez moved
to postpone for 2 weeks.  Motion died due to the lack of a second.  Comment followed regarding the
number of affirmative votes required (6) for an ordinance to pass on final reading, and the possibility
of a f uture ordinance being drafted to addre ss concerns and issues that ha d been r aised during
discussion on the proposed ordinance.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash,
Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Spiker and
Mr. Valdez. (#3915)
“An Ordinance repealing in its entirety , Chapter 8 .44, Solid W aste, and creating a new
Chapter 8.44, Solid Waste, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming.”  Mark Shubert spoke in o pposition to t he or dinance, c iting c oncerns w ith pr ivate
enterprise competition intrusion by government, and spoke in favor of preserving free enterprise and
allowing private companies to provide roll-off container services within the City.  Mr. Valdez moved
to approve on third and fin al reading, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Valdez moved to amend by
substitute, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, advised the
substitute provides for language clarification of waste collection regarding roll-off containers within
City limits by private providers.  He explained it is not the City’s intent to affect private haulers from
providing roll-off containers, and provided information concerning a meeting that had been held with
the private haulers to discuss the issue.  He reviewed proposed new wording for Section 8.44.030
E.6. as follows: “Prior to placement of waste collection roll-off containers within the City limits, a
commercial (private) hauler must provide to the City Public Works Director, or designee, a written
report containing the followi ng: name of company, address of company, primary contact name,
contact information (during  and af ter business hours) , and a description of roll-off c ontainers
including c olor scheme , number a nd siz e.  Ea ch conta iner shall be c learly marke d with the
company’s name and business phone prior to placement.  Commercial (private) haulers shall provide
the written report upon business startup and annually thereafter not later than January 31  of eachst
year.  Failure to provide this report could result in a suspension of roll-off container privileges for
a period of up to one year.  Failure to comply with container marking requirements of this paragraph
could result in removal and disposal of unmarked/unreported containers.”  Brian Clark, Countryside
Disposal, suggested the City put a tonnage requirement on their containers to make it a fair playing
field.  Concer ns were  raised r egarding curr ent ordinance language ( also included in propose d
ordinance) referencing that all solid waste accumulated in the City must be collected, conveyed and
disposed of by  the City  under the  sup ervision of the Publ ic Works Direc tor, or desig nated
representative (Section 8.44.010 C.) and possible futur e interpr etation, and pr oviding f uture
protection to private hauler s with regard to revised wording in Section 8.44.030 E. 6.  Mr. Elias
provided information on the City’s control of the waste stream as a means to provide services and
secure future financing for solid waste programs, noting the revised wording in Section 8.44.030 E.
6. will not eliminate roll-off container services by private haulers, but is a mechanism for tracking.
Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, confirmed that private haulers are not required to obtain
a City business licens e to provide roll-off container services.  Upon inquiry , City Attorney Dan
White advised he views Sec tions 8.44.010 C., C .1. and C.2. to specific ally preserve un iversal
authority by the City over disposal of solid waste with the limited exception, under the direction of
the public works director, of Section 8.44.030 E. 6.  He noted the public works director could
suspend the privileges of private haulers if they are not following requirements, otherwise, if a hauler
is complying with conditions, they will be allowed to do business.  Pursuant to suggested wording
offered by Mr. White in response to the comments of concern, Mr. Collins moved to amend Section
8.44.010 C.2. to include the following language at the beginning of the paragraph:  “Except as
provided in Section 8.44.030 E.6., ...”, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. White clarified the amendment
wording would be inserted as an introductory clause to the first sentence in Section 8.44.010 C.2.
to read: “Except as provided in Section 8.44.030 E.6., all solid waste accumulated in the City shall
be collected, conveyed, and disposed of by  the City .”  Matthew  Bowen spoke in support of the
amendment.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Motion to amend by substitute, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend Section 8.44.050 B.1. by removing the 2  sentence (i.e.:nd
The city reserves the right to suspend residential collection during weeks that begin with a Monday
which is the fifth Monday of the month in order to maintain equipment and train personnel); the 3rd
sentence (i.e.: Notification of suspension of residential collection will be provided via a media
release at least two weeks prior to any suspension of service), and the word “also” contained in the
4th sentence, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mr. Allen suggested a friendly amendment to the motion to
delete the words “A fifth week” in the last sentence of the section so the sentence would begin with
“A suspension or change in service…” with Dr. Rinne and Mr. Collins concurring as maker and
second to  the  mot ion. D iscussion f ollowed o n ma intaining c onsistent services a s is  c urrently
provided; initial section wording providing for flexibility regarding maintaining equipment and staff
training, and conc erns with the pr oposed amendment in relationship to fee s.  Motion to amend,
including the friendly amendment, failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne and Mr.
Spiker. Voting “no” -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Upon
inquiry, Mr. Elias advised a copy of the proposed substitute had been provided to private haulers of
roll-off containers and that staff ha s not heard a ny opposition from the private hau lers regarding
wording in the substitute (Section 8.44.030 E. 6.).  Main motion, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present. (#3916)
“An Ordinance amending various sections of Chapter 5.36, Circuses, Carnivals, Exhibitions,
and Amusement Rides, within Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City
Code.”  Mr. V aldez moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr.
Valdez moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon inquiry, Bruce Wilson, Chief
Building Official, reviewed changes contained in the substitute ordinance pursuant to discussion at
the last City  Council meet ing.  Motion to amend car ried. Voting  “yes” - - all member s of the
governing body  prese nt. Discussion followed on public safe ty, cer tified NAAR SO (Na tional
Association of Amusement Ride Safety Officials) inspector providing amusement ride inspections
(reference to Cheyenne Frontier Days event was noted), and reducing the City’s liability exposure.
Concern was expressed with Frontier Days amusement ride equipment operators consuming alcohol
on their breaks then returning to operate equipment and whether language should be inserted into
the ordinance to prohibit this conduct. Matt Jones, Cheyenne Frontier Days Concession Committee
Chairman, stated the  current carnival ride pr ovider for Frontier Days has strict rules on a lcohol
consumption by ride operators, as well as other rules, and that drinking by operators is absolutely
not allowed.  He explained that spot checks and patrolling of the premises has been conducted for
several years, and that drinking activity by ride operators has never been observed; the issue would
be addressed if discovered.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.  (#3917)
“An Or dinance submitt ing to the qua lified proper ty owner s of re al prope rty within the
boundaries of the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District of Cheyenne, Wyoming,
excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, at a Special Election on Tuesday,
May 10, 2011, the following question: ‘Shall a special assessment of ten (10) mills be levied upon
the assessed value of real property within the boundaries of the Cheyenne Downtown Development
Authority District, excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, for a period of
four (4) years pursuant to the provisions of Wyo. Stat. §15-9-217 (b) and (c) for the purposes of (1)
administrative costs; (2) landscaping or maintenance of public areas; (3) planning or management
of development or improvement activities; (4) promotion of public events; and (5) activities in
support of business recruitment and development?’.”  Mr. Valdez moved to approve on third and
final reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Ms. Ash advised she has met with the DDA and concerns she
had previously expressed are being addressed.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present. (#3918)
“An Ordinance De-Annexing from the City of Cheyenne, a parcel of land situate in a portion
of the south half of Section 29, T.14 North, R. 6 5 West, 6th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie
County, Wyoming, containing 37.0 acres, more or less (located in the vicinity North of Interstate 80,
East of East Pershing Boulevard, and East of the KOA Campground area).”  Mayor Kaysen advised
the petitioner has requested the item be withdrawn and, following inquiry with no objection raised
by members of City Council, announced the item was being withdrawn from the agenda.
“An Ordinance amending a portion of Ordinance No. 3891 by modifying the conditions
within the zoning classification of MUB Conditional Mixed Use with Business Emphasis District
for Lots 1 and 2; and the north 66- feet of L ots 3 and 4, Block 195, Or iginal Cit y, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. 23rd Street and Russell Avenue).”
Mr. Collins moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  It was clarified the original
ordinance provided for an exception to build a small garage for funeral home (vehicle) use at the
location, however, the size of the garage is too small for business purposes.  The proposed ordinance
increases the size of the garage area.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.
“An Ordinance amending Section 5.12.040, Issuance-Term of Licenses and Permits–Renewal
of Annua l L icenses, of Chapter 5.12, A lcoholic B everages, of Title 5, B usiness L icenses and
Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to impose certain additional restrictions
on the sale of alcoholic beverages pursuant to temporary malt beverage permits and catering permits
on City-Owned and City-Managed property.”  Mr. Valdez reported there was no recommendation
on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by
Mr. Collins.  It was advised the ordinance was brought forward pursuant to discussion concerning
sales of alcohol at Cheyenne Grizzlies games at Pioneer Park (re: ordinance acted upon earlier in the
meeting), and that the intent of the ordinance is to provide for consistent practices involving alcohol
sales and consumption on City owned and managed properties pursuant to temporary malt beverage
and catering permits.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend Section 5.12.040 B. 2. A. by changing the size of
alcohol servings (containers) from 12 f luid oz. to 16 fluid oz.  Mot ion died due to the lac k of a
second.  Discussion included:  Concern with ordinance effect on private and small family events
relative to posting of sig nage and othe r requirements; size of alcohol ser vings, and whether an
amendment to the current city code is needed.  Main motion failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms.
Broyles and Mr. Spiker.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez,
and Mayor Kaysen.
“A Resolution authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the amount
of $94,648.02, pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502.”  Mr. Valdez moved to adopt, seconded by Ms.
Ash.  Discussion followed on c ollection efforts, debts owed by businesses still i n operation, and
insufficient funds checks and acceptance of future checks from those who have issued uncollectible
checks in the past.  City Treasurer Barb Dorr explained past and current collection procedures and
efforts; reviewed measures her office is taking in an attempt to collect debts prior to submitting them
to the collection agency, and provided information generally on the age of the debts presented for
discharge, which may involve billing or receivables errors.  Mayor Kaysen clarified that even though
the debts would be written-off, the City can still pursue collection for payment.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Broyles voting
“no”.  (#5267)
“A Resolution directing the City Clerk to defer acceptance of applications for one (1) Retail
and one (1) Bar and Grill liquor license, which licenses will revert to the City of Cheyenne on March
31, 2011, and one (1) additional Retail liquor license, which may be authorized to the City pursuant
to provisions of Wyo. Stat. § 12-4-101, and e stablishing guidelines to be used by  the Governing
Body of the City of Cheyenne to review applications for said licenses.”  Mr. Valdez moved to adopt,
seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon inq uiry, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, stated the H itching Post Inn
retail license and the On the Border bar and grill license are the licenses that will revert to the City.
She also advised, pursuant to notification that had been received from the Wyoming Liquor Division,
the City has received one additional retail liquor license based upon the 2010 census (population).
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5268)
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:10 p.m.
[CA] “A Resolution adopting  revised liquor lice nse g eneral g uidelines for  the review of
applications for Retail and Bar and Grill liquor licenses available through the City of Cheyenne and
authorizing a time frame to receive applications – referred to Finance Committee (sponsors – Dr.
Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.)
[CA] “A Resolution authorizing the Mayor to terminate Lease Agreement No. 4745 entered into
by the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne American Legion Post 6 Baseball Club, Inc., dated March
28, 2005” – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor – Mr. Brown.)
County Preliminary Plat for Overland Trails Business Park  for a portion of the E½ of Section
14 and a portion of the NE¼ of Section 23, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming
(located w est o f a nd a djacent t o I -25, so uth o f W.  Col lege Dr ive). Mr . Co llins mov ed to
acknowledge receipt with staff recommendations #1 through 7 and #9 through 13, seconded by Ms.
Ash. Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
      County Preliminary Plat for Niobrara Energy Park for a parcel of land situated in a portion of the
N½ of Section 9, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of S. College
Drive (behind Lighthouse Baptist Church) and north of Laramie County Community College).  Mr.
Collins moved to acknowledge receipt with staff recommendations #1 through 4 and #6 through 12,
and Planning Commission condition #13, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon inquiry, Brad Emmons, AVI
Engineering, agent for the applicant, and Lisa Pafford, Assistant Development Director, provided
information available relative to County approval of County plats or variances.  Ms. Pafford stated
inquiry has been made to the County with regard to the County’s new subdivision regulations and
clarification of what items will be reviewed and/or acted upon by the County Planning Commission,
Board of A djustment or County  Commissioners, and that a  response has not y et been received.
Pursuant to inquiry concerning possible placement of a condition on the final plat at a later date,
John Knepper, Assistant City Attorney, expressed that placing a condition on a plat is probably not
an on-going land use restriction, and that, pursuant to state legislative provisions, further research
would need to be conducted with regard to the City exercising extra-territorial authority.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Boys and Girls Club of Cheyenne, Inc. to lease
the building located at 1700 Snyder Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.  (#5655)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres Associates for the
Holliday Park Connector Project for a pedestrian connection ( Greenway funds).  M otion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5656)  
[CA] Funding Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, a nd the Wyoming De partment of
Transportation, for the E ast Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project (Phase  IV) (2003-2006,
2007-2010 1% Sales Ta x, Boa rd of Public Utilities, Fede ral Hig hway Adm inistration funds).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5657)  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Thoug ht Equity Motion, Inc. establishing
responsibilities and conditions of requirements set forth by the Wyoming Business Council, Business
Ready Community Grant and Loan Program, for funding through the Managed Data Center Cost
Reduction Grant Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5658)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, and Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., f or u sage o f City-owned p arcels a nd s tructures f or t he 2 011 C heyenne F rontier D ays
celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5659) 
 Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for wellness coaching.  Greg
Selin, President, Cheyenne Public Employees Association, spoke in favor of postponing the item for
2 weeks as re commended by the Fina nce Committee, noting  the postponement would provide
employees the opportunity to receive further information and to have questions answered regarding
the program.  M r. Valdez moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Collins.  M r. Valdez moved to
postpone for 2 weeks (to April 11, 2011), seconded by Mr. Collins.  It was noted postponement will
allow employees the opportunity to attend an informational meeting to be held March 31  at 5:30st
p.m. in the Civic Center.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.
[CA] Wyoming Chi ldren’s Trust Fund Grant Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth
Alternatives, Special Friends, and State of Wyoming, Department of Family Services, Protective
Services Division, to provide Outrea ch Mentoring  Prog ram ser vices – re ferred to F inance
Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School
District Number One for the use of buses owned by the Laramie County School District Number One
for Public Transportation Services during the 2011 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebration – referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for the use of
buses owned by the Laramie County School District Number One for Public Transportation Services
during the 2011 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebration – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for the use of
the parking lot location on the F. E. Warren Air Force Base for Public Transportation Services during
the 2011 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebration – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 5056 between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation
Division, and Magic City Enterprises for sorting, processing and marketing of recyclable materials
at blue bin sites – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid # R-14-11 for furnishing one new 3/4 ton pickup with snow plow for
the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division (Federal Transportation Grant funds).  Motion to accept the
bid (per Consent Agenda) carried (Spradley Barr Motors, Inc.- amount not to exceed $37,924.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-23-11 for the surplus sale of 115 Motorola Mobile Radios from the
City of Chey enne, Police D epartment.  Motion to acce pt the bid (per Consent Ag enda) carried
(Commtech, Burnsville, MN - revenue to the City $6,830.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-9-11 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Knife River
for annual Contract for hot plant mix, asphalt tack oil and cold mix for the Street and Alley Division.
Motion to accept the bid (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5660)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-10-11 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Knife River
for annual Contract for furnishing aggregate for the Street and Alley Division. Motion to accept the
bid (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5661)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-12-11 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Pacific Steel
and Recycling, Gillette, Wyoming, for the removal of all appliances, metals and steel from the City
Landfill – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of RFP-#10- 11 for the r emoval, fur nishing a nd installing of tile in the
Municipal Pool locker rooms and showers for the City of Cheyenne Aquatics Division (2007-2010
1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-14-11 for a con tract between the City of Cheyenne and S & S
Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming,  for concrete for Street and Alley overlay project (2007-2010,
2011-2014 1% Sales Tax funds) – referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of Dr. Ma rk Rinne to the Downtown De velopment Authority Board.  Mr.
Collins moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the g overning body present with the ex ception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointment).
[CA] Request to change retail liquor dispensing room location and dimensions for Lambousis
Revocable Trust d/b/a May flower, 112 W. 17th S t., Cheyenne, Wyoming – r eferred to Finance
Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 11, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Ch ambers, 2 101 O ’Neil A venue, Ch eyenne, Wyoming, f or a  re staurant l iquor lic ense
application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Re-o-na Sushi and Thai d/b/a Re-o-na Sushi Bar
and Thai Cuisine, 112 W. 17th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 11, 2011, at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers to determine whether compliance with annexation conditions required by Wyo.
Stat. §15-1-402 exists for parcels of land being situated in the SE1/4 of Section 11, and in the NE1/4
of Section 14, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located at Interstate
25 and West College Drive).
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, April 11, 2011 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public input and
comments on the Chey enne D owntown Deve lopment Authority ’s (DDA ) 2006 Marke t-Based
Downtown Plan pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §15-9-208; said plan, available for public inspection at the
DDA office, One De pot Square, 121 West 15th Street, Suite 200, Che yenne, Wyoming, will be
reviewed for recommendation by the Cheyenne Planning Commission at its Monday, April 4, 2011
meeting, open to the public, at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 8:24 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 April 8, 2011