MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-04-11 | CLIP_ID: 213 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 213

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
April 11, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Ms. Broyles, and pursuant to support received
by Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash, agenda item #10 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request
by Ms. Ash, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Collins and Ms. Broyles, agenda item #14(b)
was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Collins  moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda
items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 28, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a  voucher payable to
Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, and  vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Pierson moved to appr ove
payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen. Dr. Rinne moved to divide the question
to allow for a separate vote on the voucher payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Mr. Pierson moved to approve payment of the Ameri-Tech HVAC Services voucher in
the amount of $30,437.50, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present in Council C hambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr.
Brown returned to Council Chambers. Upon inquiry , Todd Feezer, Assistant Director, Parks and
Recreation Dept., explained a voucher payable to All Sports Enterprises, Inc. ($16,900.00) was for
replacement of the floor at the David R. Romero Youth Activity and Community Center as a sports
floor, as originally planned, as the current floor type is not conducive to sports activities.  Main
motion, excluding the previously approved voucher to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Re-o-na Sushi and Thai d/b/a Re-o-na Sushi
Bar and Thai Cuisine, 112 W. 17th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming. There being no comments or input and
the purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and referred
the item to Finance Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to determine w hether compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exists for parcels of land being situated in the SE1/4
of S ection 1 1, a nd i n t he N E1/4 o f Section 14, T .13N., R .67W., 6 th P .M., L aramie C ounty,
Wyoming (generally located at Interstate 25 and West College Drive).  Jim Flesher, Urban Planning
Office, reviewed requirements and compliance of conditions contained in Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402,
including specific information indicating compliance with Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402(a)(i) through (vi).
There being no further  comments or input and purpose  of the he aring having been me t, Mayor
Kaysen closed the public hearing.
 
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a public hea ring to receive public input and c omments on the
Cheyenne D owntown Deve lopment Authority ’s (DD A) 2006 Mar ket-Based D owntown Plan
pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §15-9-208.  Christie DePoorter, DDA Executive Director,  reviewed strategies
included in the Plan for growth, improvements and opportunities to benefit areas within the DDA
District, and noted the plan inadvertently was not presented to the governing body for approval after
its completion in 2006.  Upon inquiry, Ms. DePoorter clarified the DDA special mill levy election
is scheduled for May 10, 2011.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing
having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
“Ordinance amending a portion of Ordinance No. 3891 by modifying the conditions within
the zoning classification of MUB Conditional Mixed Use with Business Emphasis District for Lots
1 and 2; and the  north 66-feet of L ots 3 and 4, Bloc k 195, Orig inal City, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. 23rd Street and Russell Avenue).” Reporting
for Public Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded
by Ms. Ash.  It was noted the amending ordinance will increase garage footage to allow for storage
of vehicles utilized by a funeral home.  Motion c arried.  Voting “yes” -- all members o f t he
governing body. (#3919)
“Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established, Section
17.08.040, Cheyenne City Map, of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning classification
from AR Agricultural Residential District to MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing District
for Block 1, Lots 6-15; Block 3, Lots 1-15 and Block 4, Lots 1-8; HR-2 High Density Residential-
Developing District for Block 1, Lots 1-5 and Block 2, Lots 1-26; a replat of a portion of Tracts 7
and 10, Dell Range Addition, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming, also to be known as Granite Hills
Subdivision (located north of and adjacent to Carla Drive, between Ridge Road and College Drive)”
-- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
“Resolution adopting revised liquor license general guidelines for the review of applications
for Retail and Bar and Grill liquor licenses available through the City of Cheyenne and authorizing
a time frame to r eceive applications.”  Re porting for Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez moved to
adopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Ms. Broyles moved to amend #5(d) of the revised guidelines by
adding the language “or business whose primary patrons are under the age of 21” (years) at the end
of the sentence, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Discussion followed on determining who is considered
to be an adult (18 vs. 21 y ears); interpretation of “primary patrons”; past application for a liquor
license involving distance from a dance studio involving youth participants, and utilizing the general
guidelines as a r eference when considering appli cations.  Upon inquiry , Matt Ashby , Planning
Services Direc tor, pro vided informa tion on the approxim ate leng th of a ty pical block in the
downtown area.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and
Mr. Valdez.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Br own, Mr. Collins, Dr.  Rinne and Mayor
Kaysen.  Main motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  (#5269)
“Resolution authorizing the Mayor to terminate Lease Agreement No. 4745 entered into by
the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne American Legion Post 6 Baseball Club, Inc., dated March 28,
2005.”  Ed Melko spoke generally in favor of the Resolution; questioned fees charged by Post 6 for
use of the field by other teams and whether the City has the capability to audit Post 6 records, and
expressed concerns regarding use of locker rooms, signage revenue received by Post 6, federal/state
grant funding that has been utilized to build the facility and affiliated use requirements relative to
the City’s future availability to receive grant funds.  Upon inquiry, Todd Feezer, Assistant Director,
Parks and Recreation Dept., explained user fee tiers in place providing revenue to the City.  Buck
McVeigh, Post 6 Board representative, explained that Post 6 i s a not for pr ofit organization that
relies on sponsors for funding, and reviewed the history of how Powers Field resulted in being built,
which involved fund-raising efforts by Post 6 to match the federal Land and Water Conservation
grant funds the City received.  He reviewed usage of the field by other teams; use of locker rooms
by Post 6; revenues received from fence signage (sponsorship advertising); Post 6 baseball program
benefits to community youth; changes that had occurred in the scheduling process; Post 6's facility
maintenance and supervisory responsibilities and financial investment; components of the current
agreement, and a letter dated April 2010 that had been received from a representative of the U.S.
Dept. of Interior, Land and Water Conservation grant funds office, regarding equal and open access
to the facility by the public pursuant to grant provisions.  Mr. McVeigh indicated his willingness to
further discuss issues involved in meeting the City’s grant funding requirements.  Jade Lain, Post
6 coach and supporter of Post 6's baseball program, spoke in opposition to the Resolution.  He
discussed Post 6's baseball program benefits to youth and team mem ber criteria; limited revenue
sources available for the program; Post 6 financial investment and maintenance of field and facility
areas, and the need for another baseball field at the Powers Field location.  During his comments he
presented Mr. McVeigh with a check donation to help towards building another field, adding that
he hoped the City and other user groups will join together to help fund a second field.  Discussion
included the following topics: Issues involving availability of both locker rooms to other teams who
utilize the facility; revenue received by Post 6 involving outfield fence (sponsorship advertising)
signage, and ope n and equal  access to Powers F ield by  others pursua nt to L and and Water
Conservation grant requirements.  Speaking in support of the benefits the Post 6 program provides
were Rudy Apodaca and Warren Ayala.  Dallas Lain, Post 6 Board member, discussed interpretation
of grant funding requirements at both the federal and state level; need for continuing transparent
discussions regarding parameters involving use of the federal grant funds involved in building
Powers Field, and scheduling of users/games for the facility.  Upon inquiry, Mr. McVeigh provided
information concerning Post 6's utiliz ation of locker rooms and f ence sponsorship signa ge, and
feasibility of an on-site storage unit in lieu of using one of the locker rooms for equipment storage.
Discussion continued on negotiations between the City and Post 6 relative to the “sticking points”
that had been raised involving the grant agreement (entered into by the City) requirements and the
current lease agreement with Post 6; federal and state staff interpretations of the Land and Water
Conservation grant requirements, and fence signage.  Ron Nimmo, Post 6 Board member, discussed
availability to o thers to use the ba seball f acility; e ligible pa rticipants fo r t he Pos t 6 p rogram;
scheduling changes that occurred in 2010 at the City’s request; use of locker rooms; sponsorship
signage; facility scheduling; proper interpretation of grant requirements, and importance of field
availability to Post 6's program.  Mr. Valdez reported there was no recommendation on the item from
Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry concerning
whether the City could transfer its obligations under the grant to other City facilities under a 6 (f)
conversion process, Dominic Bravo, Wyoming Dept. of State Parks and Cultural Resources, State
Liaison Officer for the Land and Water Conservation Fund Program, provided brief information on
the 6 (f) conversion requirements and stated the City doesn’t have the amount of land needed to meet
conversion requirements due to past 6 (f) conversions that have been approved.  Discussion
continued and included the following topics: Future federal grant funding opportunities that may be
jeopardized if the City does not meet grant agreement provisions involving the current l ease
agreement with Post 6; communications and discussions with Post 6 to address issues; community
importance of continuing eligibility by the City to seek Land and Water Conservation grants; use of
locker rooms; sponsorship signage areas and available placements; public use of Powers Field
generally, federal grant agreement requirements and state parks involvement, and enforcement of
requirements by federal and state agencies.  Mr. Spiker moved to postpone for 30 days to allow for
further discussions between the City and Post 6 representatives, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Ms. Lain
expressed her personal commitment to work toward re -negotiating.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Fe ezer
provided information he was aware of relative to offers made by the City to Post 6 regarding a
revised le ase a greement, and Mr. B ravo state d the City  mu st be in compli ance with gr ant
requirements, acknowledging that the City is attempting to remedy the issues involved, however,
timeliness to comply will factor in at some point, and confirmed that accessibility to any part of the
facility (including locker rooms and a dvertisement signage fence area) must be provided.  U pon
further inquiry, Mr. Feezer explained if the motion to postpone fails and the City Council decides
to terminate the lease, Post 6 would be asked to remove equipment, etc. from the property, and that
scheduling for use of the field for Post 6 and others would be on a fair and equitable basis.  Upon
inquiry, Jason Sanchez, Grounds and Facilities Director, Parks and Recreation Dept., advised City
staff would do their best to maintain the fields if an agreement is unable to be reached with Post 6,
however, it might re quire a dditional manp ower.  Discussion continued on the purpose  of
postponement; parties to be involved in discussions/negotiations during the postponement time
frame; fair and equitable use of the facility, including locker rooms and signage space; compliance
with federal requirements and the  City being potentially disbarred from re ceiving future f ederal
funding if compliance is not achieved; potential litigation; correspondence that had been received
from the st ate da ted J an. 21, 2011 and A pril 11, 2011, and issues to be discussed/re solved.
Following further comments and upon inquiry regarding the termination time frame if the Resolution
was adopted, Dan White, City Attorney, explained if the Resolution is approved it only authorizes
the mayor to terminate the lease.  Termination of the lease would not be effective until 60 days from
receipt of notice.  He noted if the motion to postpone passes, the Resolution will come back to the
governing body in 30 days, or an amended lease could be considered if negotiations are successful.
Mayor Kaysen confirmed that, as Post 6 has a legal contact, the City Attorney, Mr. White, would
continue to be the City’s point person for communication.  Ms. Lane verified Post 6's legal counsel
will contact the City Attorney to schedule a meeting. Motion to postpone for 30 da ys (to May 9,
2011) carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash,
Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”.   It was noted that the item will be back on the City
Council agenda for its May 9  meeting at which time it will be referred to Finance Committee.th
Following a 15 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 9:05 p.m.
[CA] “Resolution approving the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority's 2006 Market-
Based Downtown Plan (Plan of Development) pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-208” -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
[CA] “Resolution determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402
exist for the property described as a parcel(s) of land being situated in the SE1/4 of Section 11, and
in the NE1/4 of Section 14, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located
at Interstate 25 and West College Drive)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Collins).
 Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for wellness coaching. Mark
Shubert expressed concerns with the cost of employee health insurance and commented on employee
vs. em ployer s hare o f p remiums an d t he b enefits em ployees h ave b y b eing provided co verage
through the City vs. health insurance coverage and costs in the private sector.  Upon inquiry whether
Council members, who may participate in the City’s health insurance plan, have a conflict of interest
in voting on matters involving the health insurance program, City Attorney Dan White opined that
it was not a conflict of interest as it does not represent an individual interest or benefit that isn’t also
received by other program members.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon
inquiry, Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, advised an end date isn’t listed in the contract as it is implied the
City will enter into another agreement for the term.  Tracy Peterson, WINHealth, advised contract
term dates are flexible for the program; stated there will be no pro-ration of fees with regard to when
employees may participate in t he program, and explained components of the wellness program.
Upon inq uiry, M s. Do rr pr ovided in formation o n p otential e mployee inc entives; City Cou ncil
determination, through c onsideration of the  annual e mployee terms and conditions ordinance ,
relative to whether  any  premium adjustment will be assessed to non-participa ting pr ogram
employees; City Wellness Committee recommendation that non-participating employees pay 25%
of premium share with participating employees paying 12%; purpose of the wellness program to
keep down health insurance costs and employee educational sessions, and confirmed those Council
members who are on the City’s health insurance plan will also be subject to the potential premium
increase if the y are  non-par ticipants of the we llness prog ram through WINhealth.  Discussion
followed on the approval of the plan running concurrently with the employee terms and conditions
for employee awareness of a potential premium adjustment, offering of incentives to employees;
other public e ntities’ wellness programs (i.e. State, County  and B oard of Public Utili ties), and
whether a wellness program has been shown to provide effective savings.  Up on inquiry, Ms.
Peterson explained the contract cost is based upon participants, and Mr. White advised amendment
language could be added to the contract stating the City has the right to terminate the contract.  Judi
Just, Accounting  Division, advised that any  proposed c hanges to the contra ct will need to be
approved by  WinHealth’s  attorney; provided potential wording  for the te rms and conditions
ordinance that would reflect program participating employees would pay 12.5% of premium costs
and non-pa rticipating employ ees w ould pay  25%.  Upon inquiry , Rich Wi ederspahn, Human
Resources Direc tor, advised it has be en appr oximately 2½ y ears since the City has re quested
proposals for health insurance coverage, and Ms. Dorr explained if the City changes health insurance
providers, the City could still participate in WINHealth’s wellness program.  Upon query, Mayor
Kaysen advised, in conjunction with budget preparation for the upcoming fiscal year, the possibility
of an employee cost of living adjustment is still being reviewed.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone for
2 weeks (to April 25, 2011), seconded by Ms. Ash. It was noted that amendment wording would be
drafted relative to inclusion of a termination clause and term for services within the contract.  Motion
to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Wyoming C hildren’s Trust Fund Grant Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth
Alternatives, Special Friends, and State of Wyoming, Department of Family Services, Protective
Services Division, to provide Outreach Mentoring Program.  Ms. Ash declared a conflict of interest
(due to employment involvement with funding) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved
to approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  F ollowing announcement of the vote, Ms. Ash returned to
Council Chambers.  (#5662)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School
District Number One for the use of buses owned by the Laramie County School District Number One
for Public Transportation Services during the 2011 Cheyenne Frontier Days.    Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5663) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc. for the use of
buses owned by the Laramie County School District Number One for Public Transportation Services
during the 2011 Chey enne Frontier Days Celebration.   Moti on (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5664) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc. for the use of
the parking lot location on the F. E. Warren Air Force Base for Public Transportation Services during
the 2011 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5665) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Umpires Association to provide
umpire services for the 2011 Softball Season -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Josh Cossitt to provide tennis services a nd
instruction for the 2011 season -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between  the City of Chey enne and Lipizzaner Stallions, I nc. for Lipizzaner
Stallion S how at the City  of Chey enne-owned I ce a nd Events Center - - re ferred to F inance
Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use of
the Civic Center for the 2011-2012 Concert Season -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra  for use
of the Civic Center for Youth Education Concerts -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
William Linden for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Laramie
County School District #1 to provide transportation services for 2011 Summer Recreation Camp --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Union Pacific Railroad Company
for permission to construct, use, maintain, repair and renew a portion of East Cheyenne Greenway
Extension (Phase IIIb-Part 2) located on, along and across Union Pacific Railroad Company property
-- referred to Public Services Committee.
 
[CA] Cooperative A greement betwe en the City  of Chey enne a nd Wy oming De partment of
Transportation for permanent pavement markings at all railway crossings on City streets (Federal
funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.     
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and The  Desig n Studio, I nc. for  renovation and expansion of the
Conservatory/Greenhouse at Cheyenne Botanic Gardens (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract for Professional Engineering services  between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Ayres Associates for Lake Minnehaha Remediation Plan Project at Holliday Park
(DEQ grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 5056 between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation
Division, and Magic City Enterprises for sorting, processing and marketing of recyclable materials
at blue bin sites.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5056)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5650 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks  and
Recreation Department, and Superior Electric to provide electrical correction and install new wire
to three scoreboards for Brimmer Park (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5394 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, Facilities Maintenance Division, and Ameri-Tech HVAC Services to exercise
the op tion c lause e xtending the  c urrent c ontract f or me chanical, h eating, v entilating, a nd a ir
conditioning system maintenance for City buildings -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-12-11 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Pacific Steel
and Recycling, Gillette, Wyoming, for the removal of all appliances, metals and steel from the City
Landfill.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5666)
[CA] Consideration of RFP-#10- 11 for the r emoval, furnishing and installing of  tile in the
Municipal Pool locker rooms and showers for the City of Cheyenne Aquatics Division (2007-2010
1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (Cheyenne Tile and Stone; amount not to
exceed $45,801.00).  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-14-11 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and S & S
Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming,  for concrete for Street and Alley overlay project (2007-2010,
2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5667)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-24-11 for one new 2011 pick-up truck with two whe el drive for
Public Works Department, Traffic Division, from Spradley Barr Motors, Inc. of Cheyenne, Wyoming
(2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Request to change retail liquor dispensing room location and dimensions for Lambousis
Revocable Trust d/b/a Mayflower, 112 W. 17th St., Cheyenne, WY.    Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at
the 2011 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Annual Convention -- referred to Public Services
Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, April 25, 2011 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Fiscal Year 2011-2012
Annual Action Plan, City of Cheyenne Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) entitlement.
Announcement was made  of the Appointment of Chuck O tto to t he Greenway Advisory
Committee to be confirmed April 25, 2011. 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 9:55 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 April 26, 2011