MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-04-25 | CLIP_ID: 215 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 215

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
April 25, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Brown and Ms. Broyles, agenda item #14(f)  was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr.
Brown moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on April 11, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Brown.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive input and comments for Fiscal Year 2011-
2012 Ann ual Action Plan, Ci ty of Chey enne Community  Deve lopment Block G rant (CDB G)
entitlement. Deanne Widauf, Housing and Community Development Office, provided an overview
of the CDB G entitlement prog ram and advised the ac tion plan is consistent with t he 5-y ear
Comprehensive Consolidated Plan; cited some of the identified Plan goals and objectives for Fiscal
Year 2011-2012, and advised the City’s estimated entitlement allocation amount is $481,610.00,
which is 17% less than last year.  Ms.  Widauf explained the grant application process; public
notifications and opportunities for input, and review and recommendations of eligible applications
by the Advisory Council.  She reviewe d proposed recommended projects for funding, including
program a dministration, a nd e stimated f unding a llocation a mount f or e ach. Up on inq uiry, M s.
Widauf provided information on the status of fede ral HUD funding and program administrative
costs.   There being no further comments and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen
closed the hearing.
“Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established, Section
17.08.040, Cheyenne City Map, of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning classification
from AR Agricultural Residential District to MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing District
for Block 1, Lots 6-15; Block 3, Lots 1-15 and Block 4, Lots 1-8; HR-2 High Density Residential-
Developing District for Block 1, Lots 1-5 and Block 2, Lots 1-26; a replat of a portion of Tracts 7
and 10, Dell Range Addition, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming, also to be known as Granite Hills
Subdivision (located north of and adjacent to Carla Drive, between Ridge Road and College Drive).”
Reporting fo r P ublic S ervices C ommittee, M r. C ollins m oved t o ap prove on second re ading,
seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] “Resolution approving the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority's 2006 Market-
Based Downtown Plan (Plan of  Development) pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-208.”  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5270)
“Resolution determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402
exist for the property described as a parcel(s) of land being situated in the SE1/4 of Section 11, and
in the NE1/4 of Section 14, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located
at Interstate 25 a nd West Col lege Drive).”  Mr. Collins m oved to adopt, seconded by  Ms. Ash.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  (#5271)
[CA] “Resolution approving the City of Cheyenne’s 2011 Annual Ac tion Plan prepared by the
Cheyenne H ousing a nd Communi ty Deve lopment Office ” --  ref erred to  Financ e Committ ee
(sponsors - Ms. Broyles and Mr. Pierson).
[CA] “Resolution renaming Lawana Court and Lajuana Court within Cottonwood Meadows, a
replat of Lots 1 through 6, Block One, Bussard Subdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County,
Wyoming, as Hope Court (g enerally located south of Roc k Springs S treet and east of Monr oe
Avenue” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] “Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Granite Hills
Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Tracts 7 and 10, Dell Range Addition, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Carla Drive, between Ridge Road and College Drive)” --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
 Contract betwe en th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne a nd WINhealth Pa rtners f or w ellness coaching
(postponed from 4-11-11).  Reporting for F inance Commi ttee, Mr. Va ldez moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Valdez moved to amend by substitute agreement which indicates a
term of 18 months from July 1, 2011 through December 31, 2012, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Discussion included family
members e ligible t o p articipate i n t he w ellness c oaching p rogram; f uture f unding a vailability;
employees’ contribution toward medic al insurance premiums, which will be determined dur ing
consideration of the annua l em ployee terms and conditions ordinanc e; claims re porting by
WINhealth; measurement of program effectiveness, and relationship between WINhealth Partners
medical c overage prog ram a nd wellness coa ching services.  I n response  to inquiry  reg arding
employees’ participation and contributions if the program is not funded in the future, Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, advised there is always the possibili ty that the pre mium percentage contribution by
participants could increase.  Upon inquiry, Judi Just, Accounting Office, reviewed recent medical
claims statistics received from WINhealth and explained the major percentage of claims submitted
are for City employees, not employees’ covered family members. She stated the goal of the wellness
coaching program is to reduce sick leave time a nd encourage healthier life styles for pr ogram
participants. Tracey Peterson, WINhealth representative, clarified the wellness coaching program
is a separate entity with regard to data and collection reporting and is not part of WINhealth’s
insurance information side, but it  is still part of WI Nhealth, and that coac hing a ctivities and
participant information will be in compliance with HIPPA requirements. Upon inquiry, Ms. Dorr
reviewed the City’s employee sick leave accumulation policy.  It was advised the annual employee
terms and conditions ordinance should be placed on the Council’s agenda in May.  Main motion as
amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  (#5669)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Umpires Association to provide
umpire services for the 2011 Softball Season.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5670) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Josh Cossitt to provide tennis services and
instruction for the 2011 season.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5671)
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Lipizzaner Stallions, I nc. for Lipizzaner
Stallion Show at the City of Cheyenne-owned Ice and Events Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.  (#5672)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use of
the Civic Center for the 2011-2012 Concert Season.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5673)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra  for use
of the Civic Center for Youth Education Concerts. Upon inquiry, Kim Lovett, Executive Director,
Cheyenne Sy mphony O rchestra, a dvised th e a greement p rovides f or 2  c oncerts o ffering an
opportunity for student e ducation and pa rticipation in musi c.  Mr. Va ldez moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Lovett advised agreement funding in the amount of
$6,585.00 assists with defraying some of the performance costs, including payment of professional
musicians.  Concern was expressed with use of City funds for the performances, and the respective
roles and r esponsibilities of the City  vs. the school district  involving this ty pe of e ducational
program.  Ms. Lovett provided information on funding and support of music education through the
school district. Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” - - all member s of the g overning body with the
exception of Mr. Collins voting  “no”. (#5674)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
William Linden for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5675)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Laramie
County School District #1 to provide transportation services for 2011 Summer Recreation Camp.
 Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5676)
[CA] Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Union Pacific Railroad Company
for permission to construct, use, maintain, repair and renew a portion of East Cheyenne Greenway
Extension (Phase I IIb-Part 2) loc ated on, a long and ac ross Union Pacific Ra ilroad Company
property.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5677)
 
[CA] Cooperative A greement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Wy oming De partment of
Transportation for permanent pavement markings at all railway crossings on City streets (Federal
funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5678)
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and The Design Studio, I nc. for renovation a nd expansion o f t he
Conservatory/Greenhouse at Cheyenne Botanic Gardens (1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $749,910.00). (#5679)
[CA] Contract for Professional Engineering services  between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Ayres Associates for Lake Minnehaha Remediation Plan Project at Holliday Park
(DEQ grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $39,683.00).  (#5680)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, and King Ranch Company, L.P., for the lease of
certain lands located at the City Landfill for grazing purposes -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Safe Routes to School Project Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming
Department of Transportation for the Arp Elementary Pathway Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales
and Use Tax and WYDOT funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5650 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks  and
Recreation Department, and Superior Electric to provide electrical correction and install new wire
to three scoreboards for Brimmer Park (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $9,812.80).  (#5650)
Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5394 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, Facilities Maintenance Division, and Ameri-Tech HVAC Services to exercise
the op tion c lause e xtending the  c urrent c ontract f or me chanical, h eating, v entilating, a nd a ir
conditioning system maintenance for City buildings.  Mr . Brown declared  a conflict of interest
(business interest) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve, seconded by Mr.
Pierson.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  F ollowing a nnouncement o f t he vo te, M r. B rown re turned to Council Ch ambers.
(#5394)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-24-11 for one new 2011 pick-up truck with two whe el drive for
Public Works Department, Traffic Division, from Spradley Barr Motors, Inc. of Cheyenne, Wyoming
(2007-2010 1%  Sal es Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$34,552.00). 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-26-11 for furnishing 700 95-gallon and 200 65-gallon automated
refuse carts for the Public Works Department, Sanitation Division -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-25-11 for three new 2011 Polaris Ranger Crew 800 utility terrain
vehicles from Polaris Suzuki of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the Police Department (2010 Byrne Justice
Assistance Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Re-o-na Sushi and
Thai d/b/a Re-o-na Sushi Bar and Thai Cuisine, 112 W. 17th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at
the 2011 Wy oming Assoc iation of Mun icipalities Annual Convention.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (Mayor Richard L. Kaysen, Official Voting Delegate; Councilman Jack R. Spiker,
Alternate Delegate). 
Appointment of Chuck Otto to the Greenway Advisory Committee. Mr. Collins moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Rolfe Burgess to the Cheyenne Planning
Commission, and Nathaniel T. Steinhoff to the Community Action of Laramie County Board of
Directors, to be confirmed May 9, 2011. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 9, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Ch ambers, 2 101 O ’Neil A venue, Ch eyenne, Wyoming, f or a  re staurant l iquor lic ense
application filed with the City Clerk's Office for 888 Mr. Hibachi, LLC d/b/a Mr. Hibachi, 1439
Stillwater Avenue, Suites 1 and 2, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, May 9, 2011 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public comments
and input on the proposed amendment to the Major Street Plan Official Map 2003 by updating the
Official Map with newly platted and built roads, and by adding U.S. Highway 30 and Dell Range
Boulevard int ersection, Ea st Pe rshing B oulevard a nd Chr istensen Ro ad in tersection, a nd U. S.
Highway 30 and Christensen Road intersection details. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, May 9, 2011 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public comments
and input on the City ’s intent to submit  a grant request to the Wy oming Business Council for a
Business Ready Communities, Business Committed Grant, for pedestrian improvements to West
Lincolnway, and stree tscape impro vements on West 17  Street, Thomes a nd Pioneer Ave nuesth
adjacent to Block 392, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Mayor Kaysen recognized youth in attendance at the meeting. 
Under other business, Da llas L ain, speaking on be half of the  Boa rd of Post 6 L egion
Baseball, provided an update with regard to a meeting and discussions concerning the agreement
between the City and Post 6 for use  of Powers B aseball Field (City  Clerk note: Ag enda item
(Resolution) was postponed for 30 days at the April 11, 2011 City Council meeting).  She expressed
appreciation to City Attorney Dan White and Todd Thibodeau, Planning and Grants Manager, State
Parks, Historical Sites and Trails Division, for meeting with Post 6 Board members, and advised they
had a very productive meeting.  Affiliated with discussions concerning requirements under the Land
and Water Conservation grant funding the City had received to assist with construction of Powers
Field, she stated Post 6 has submitted a proposal to the City by the April 22 deadline, stating Postnd 
6 has tried to come up with a proposal that is fair, equitable, honorable, and “what is right” in order
to move forward with opportunities for all ar ea youth to participate in ba seball programs.  Upon
inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised no final decision has been made to date on the Post 6
proposal, and Rick Parish, Director, Parks and Recreation Department, stated review of the proposal
with Mr. Thibodeau for his response would be conducted.  Mayor Kaysen advised the agenda item
would be back on the City Council’s May 9  agenda to be referred back to Finance Committee,th
which will meet on May  16, 2011 at 11:00 a.m .  Upon inquiry, Ms. Lain reviewed the essential
elements of the proposal that Post 6 submitted, which includes completion of a second Blue Ribbon
baseball field at the current site, as initially conceptualized, and sidewalks, and advised there was
no written contract for a second field, but it was portrayed in drawings utilized during fund raising
efforts for Powers Field. Upon inquiry, Mr. Parish reviewed dirt moving and rough grading activities
that had occ urred during construction; stated a  conceptual master plan ha d been dr awn up that
determined two fields could at some po int be conf igured in the ar ea, a nd commented on the
importance of lighting if a second field was built.  Phil Maggert, Post 6 Board member, stated the
proposal is not a threat; that Post 6 looked at value to the community and a win situation in building
a second field, and commented on the benefits of the City and Post 6 working together to resolve
issues.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 6:55  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 May 6, 2011