MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-05-09 | CLIP_ID: 217 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 217

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
May 9, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
and Mr. Spiker. Absent:  Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Collins moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on April 25, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Comments were made regarding a voucher payable to Scott Gromer, refund request relative to lack
of a recreation center in Cheyenne; funding upgrades to the municipal pool, and proposed projects
for the ne xt 6  penny sales tax ballot question as reported in a  recent newspaper article.  Uponth
inquiry, Rick Parish, Parks and Rec reation Director, r eviewed a vouche r payable to Col orado
Analytical Lab for Airport Golf Course soil testing.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present.  Under other City business later in the meeting, Mr. Parish provided
further explanation reg arding the vouche r payable to Mr. Gr omer, stating  the funds had been
previously received by the City from the Air  National Guard for recreational use by the Gromer
family, who wish to utilize the funds toward recreational opportunities in another community. 
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for 888 Mr. Hibachi, LLC d/b/a Mr. Hibachi,
1439 Stillwater Avenue, Suites 1 and 2, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  There being no comments and the
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the item to
Finance Committee.
 
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to rec eive comments and input on the p roposed
amendment to the Major Street Plan Official Map 2003 by updating the Official Map with newly
platted and built roads, and by adding U.S. Highway 30 and Dell Range Boulevard intersection, East
Pershing Boulevard and Christensen Road intersection, and U.S. Highway 30 and Christensen Road
intersection details.  Tom Mason, Direc tor, Metropolitan Planning  Org anization, ex plained the
purpose of the public hea ring; reviewed the pr oposed amendments to the offic ial map base d on
PlanCheyenne, the addition of roads, street alignments and future growth, and stated the Planning
Commission had revie wed the proposed changes and r ecommended approval.  He re ferenced a
packet of information previously provided to members of the governing body, and reviewed how the
map is functionally related to street/road classifications.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Mason reviewed rights-
of-way development and identification procedures for future Greenway path placements, and advised
the purpose of  the offic ial map is for a  street plan, not a Greenway map.  Comments followed
regarding placement of Greenway paths on the map, and Christensen railroad overpass plans.  There
being no further comments and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the
hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input on the City’s intent
to submit a grant request to the Wyoming Business Council for a Business Ready Communities,
Business Committed Grant, for  pedestrian improvements to West L incolnway, and stree tscape
improvements on West 17  Street, Thomes and Pioneer Avenues adjacent to Block 392, Originalth
City, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager, clarified the primary intent of this
type of grant is to build community infrastructure involving a specific business who has committed
to relocate or expand in the community.  She noted the local business entity is Western EcoSystems
Technology, Inc., who plans to move its current local office, due to business growth, to the historic
Dinneen’s building on West L incolnway, a downtown r edevelopment project by  Dinco
Development, LLC.  Ms. Schneider discussed the grant funding amount being sought ($770,625.00)
and required 10% match if the grant is approved.  She stated the 10% match would be provided by
Dinco Development (cash plus in-kind land donation) and Downtown Development Author ity
(DDA) funding in the amount of $15,000.00, and that the grant funding, if approved, is just a portion
of the overall redevelopment project being accomplished through private investment.  Randy Byers,
The Design Studio, Inc., architect for Dinco Development, submitted schematic drawings of the
proposed redevelopment project (on file with City Clerk’s office) and reviewed major components
of the plan involving  widening  of the sidewal k, raised landsca ping, buf fering, stre etscape
improvements and enhanced lighting on 17  Street.  Mr. Byers verified there is no request for projectth
funding assistance  from the City  nor surrounding  landowners, and explained the in-kind land
donation based on the  setback area of the  Dinneen B ldg. as recognized through the  Wyoming
Business Council.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Byers provided information on trees that will be planted as
part of the landscaping; possible irrigation plans after trees mature; project compatibility with DDA’s
established streetscaping design, and street lighting plans for W. 17  Street and proposed placementth
of a statue  through private f unding by the Dinnee n family.  Appre ciation was expressed to the
Dinneen family for the downtown redevelopment project involving the area and for making project
information a vailable to  th e p ublic th rough th e u se o f s ocial m edia.  T here b eing n o f urther
comments and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
“Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established, Section
17.08.040, Cheyenne City Map, of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning classification
from AR Agricultural Residential District to MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing District
for Block 1, Lots 6-15; Block 3, Lots 1-15 and Block 4, Lots 1-8; HR-2 High Density Residential-
Developing District for Block 1, Lots 1-5 and Block 2, Lots 1-26; a replat of a portion of Tracts 7
and 10, Dell Range Addition, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming, also to be known as Granite Hills
Subdivision (located north of and adjacent to Carla Drive, between Ridge Road and College Drive).”
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Ms. Ash.  Comments followed on the development being tailored after PlanCheyenne,
and high density level and school capacity concerns for the area.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present. (#3920)
“An Ordi nance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel(s) of land being
situated in the SE1/4 of Section 11, and in the NE1/4 of Sec tion 14, T.13N., R.67W ., 6  P.M.,th
Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located at Interstate 25 and West College Drive)” -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
“An Ordinance amending the Major Street Plan Official Map 2003, by up-dating the entire
Major Street Plan Official Map with newly platted and built roads, and by adding the U.S. Highway
30 and De ll Range  Boule vard inter section, East Pershing  Boule vard a nd Christensen Road
intersection, and U.S. Highway 30 and Christensen Road intersection details” -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] “Resolution approving the City of Cheyenne’s 2011 Annual Ac tion Plan prepared by the
Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office.”  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5272)
[CA] “Resolution renaming Lawana Court and Lajuana Court within Cottonwood Meadows, a
replat of Lots 1 through 6, Block One, Bussard Subdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County,
Wyoming, as Hope Court (g enerally located south of Roc k Springs S treet and east of Monr oe
Avenue.”    Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5273)
“Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Granite Hills
Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Tracts 7 and 10, Dell Range Addition, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Carla Drive, between Ridge Road and College Drive).”
Mr. Collins moved to adopt with staff recommendations #1 and 2, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body present.  (#5274)
[CA] “Resolution authorizing the Mayor to terminate Lease Agreement No. 4745 entered into by
the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne American Legion Post 6 Baseball Club, Inc., dated March 28,
2005”-- referred to Finance Committee (due to postponement from April 11, 2011).
[CA] “Resolution authorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  final plat for  Cheyenne
Business Parkway, 6th Filing, a replat of Lots 1 and 2, Block 4, Cheyenne Business Parkway, 4th
Filing; Lots 2 and 3, Block 2 and Lots 5 and 6, Block 1, Cheyenne Business Parkway, 3rd Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Christensen Road, between Campstool Road
and the UPRR rig ht-of-way)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -  Mr. Collins).
[CA] “Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Pointe Plaza,
2nd Filing, a replat of Lot 2, Block 5, The Pointe, and a portion of Lots 1 and 2, Block 2, Pointe
Plaza, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located northeasterly of Ga rdenia Drive, bet ween Spirit Lane and
Legacy Parkway)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins.)
[CA] “Resolution authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business Council,
Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program, for funding through the Business Committed
Grant Program to assist in making pedestrian and streetscape improvements to West Lincolnway,
West 17  Street, Thomes Ave nue and Pionee r Avenue adjacent to B lock 392, Orig inal City ofth
Cheyenne, Wyoming” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
[CA] “Resolution se lecting a  pr eferred p roposal a nd a uthorizing the  Ma yor to enter i nto
negotiations for the sale of approximately 28 acres of City-owned land located near the southeast
corner of the intersection of Windmill Road and Dell Range Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming” --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown.)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and King Ranch Company, L.P., for the lease of
certain lands located at the City Landfill for grazing purposes.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(Amendment to Agreement #3137)
[CA] Safe Routes to School Project Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming
Department of Transportation for the Arp Elementary Pathway Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales
and Use Tax and WYDOT funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5683)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,
and WWC  Engineering, Laramie, Wyoming, for supplemental c onstruction inspecti on services
(2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for Scho ol Resource  Offic ers f or summer school 2011 - - re ferred to F inance
Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing  prisoners at the Laramie County Detention
Center -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Municipal Court, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for courthouse security services -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Modification No. 1 to Professional Ser vices Agreement No. 5217 between the City  of
Cheyenne, Planning Services Department, and Gould Evans Associates, LC, to complete additional
revisions of the Unif ied Deve lopment Code for the City  of Chey enne - - re ferred to Fi nance
Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-26-11 for furnishing 700 95-gallon and 200 65-gallon automated
refuse carts for the Public Works Department, Sanitation Division.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (Otto Environmental, Eloy, AZ - amount not to exceed $44,949.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-25-11 for three new 2011 Polaris Ranger Crew 800 utility terrain
vehicles from Polaris Suzuki of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the Police Department (2010 Byrne Justice
Assistance Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $41,955.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-13-11 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group,
Inc., d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the 2011 City Overlay project (2007-2010, 2011-
2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Appointment of Rolfe B urgess to the Cheyenne Planning Commission, and Nathaniel T.
Steinhoff to the Community Action of Laramie County Board of Directors.  Mr. Collins moved to
approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  M otion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Bradley G. Oberg to the Board of Public
Utilities to be confirmed May 23, 2011. 
Under other City business:
Frank Cole, Cole Shopping Center, submitted information he received in conjunction with
his attendance at a recent conference of the International Council of Shopping Centers relative to
economic and financial contributions by shopping center operations in Wyoming (copy on file with
City Clerk’s office).
Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, introduced Elaine Carmichael and Tom Gallaher,
consultants working on the downtown placemaking project involving revitalization.  Ms. Carmichael
and Mr. Gallaher expressed appreciation for everyone’s help thus far on the project.  It was noted
the next public meeting would be held Thursday, May 12  at 5:30 p.m. at the Plains Hotel to discussth
how to make downtown Cheyenne a better place to live, work, visit and shop.
Tom Lindsey spoke in support of possible development of a downtown hotel and suggested,
due to concerns with parking space, having an underground parking level for the hotel and a main
level with a health food store and restaurant.
Comments followed regarding proposed City projects for the next 6  penny ballot proposalth
pursuant to a recent newspaper article.  Mayor Kaysen advised very preliminary discussions have
been held regarding proposed projects, and provided information on his meetings with department
heads; request for information on proposed projects by the local newspaper resulting in the article;
statutory process relative to a ballot proposal; preliminary meeting with County officials, and City
Council’s input and approval, and role relative to meetings at the County meeting level.  Additional
comments were made regarding communication with Council members in conjunction with media
information requests received by the Mayor, and Council representation involving the process for
determining proposed 6  penny projects.th
Pursuant to inquiry regarding lack of lighting in some Greenway tunnels, Mayor Kaysen
advised Parks and Recreation staff would check into the matter.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 7:00  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 May 19, 2011