MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-05-23 | CLIP_ID: 220 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 220

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
May 23, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker
and Mr. Valdez.  Absent: Ms. Ash.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, Deputy
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited, led by members
of the Mayor’s Youth Council.
EXPRESSION OF APPRECIATION TO MAYOR’S YOUTH COUNCIL AND STATE OF
THE YOUTH REPORT.  M ayor Kaysen and Ja n Spires, Mayor’s Youth Council coordinator,
commended members of the 2010-2011 Mayor’s Youth Council and presented members present with
a certificate and gift of appreciation. Those recognized were: Karolyn Hopfensperger, Dean Jackson,
Ian Dome, John Matsen, Bobby McGarry, McKinzea Olsen, Jacob Peter son, Gary Sayler, Isaiah
Sims, and Sabrina Westover. Members not in attendance also recognized were: Kadi Davis, Monica
Mencer and Josh Walker.  Ms. Hopfensperger, Chair of the Youth Council, provided a State of the
Youth report and described various accomplishments and issues the group supported and learned
about during the past school year, and commented on members’ positive interactions and learning
experiences through involvement with local government staff and community organizations.  Mayor
Kaysen expressed appreciation to the members for their time, commitment and dedication as Youth
Council members, and also to members’ families for their support.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Collins moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 9, 2011.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Brown.
Mr. Brown moved to divide the question to allow for separate action on a voucher payable to the
Downtown Development Authority (DDA) in the amount of $580,126.27 for a TIF (Tax Increment
Financing) invoice for Fiscal Year 2010, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Moti on to divide the question
carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all m embers of the governing body present.  It was advised the City
Treasurer was reconciling information that had been submitted involving the DDA payment amount,
and that a postponement of action on the voucher was requested to complete the research.  Upon
inquiry, Lois Huff, Deputy City Treasurer, reviewed the two most recent TIF payments, which were
in lower amounts.  Mr. Pierson moved to postpone payment of the voucher to the DDA until the next
regularly scheduled City Council meeting on June 13, 2011, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mr. Spiker
raised a procedural point of clarification with Mayor Kaysen advising a main motion should be
introduced prior to a motion to postpone.  Mr. Collins moved to approve the payment to DDA in the
amount of $580,126.27, sec onded by Mr. Spiker.  Mr. Spiker moved to postpone a ction on the
voucher to June 13, 2011, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting  “no”.  U pon
inquiry regarding a voucher for costs of staff attendance at a New World conference in San Antonio,
Texas, Police Chief Brian Kozak explained attendance at the conference was to receive training on
the department’s records management software system due to the recent retirement of the system
coordinator.  Upon further inquiry, Chief Kozak reported police service dogs that recently received
veterinarian care were doing fine.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Huff clarified a voucher payable to the Brown
Palace Hotel, Denver, CO, was in conjunction with a workshop on CDBG (C ommunity
Development Block Grant) funding.  Main motion, excluding the postponed voucher payable to the
DDA, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
“Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel(s) of land being situated
in the SE1/4 of Section 11, and in the NE1/4 of Section 14, T. 13N., R.67W., 6  P.M., Laramieth
County, Wyoming (generally located at Interstate 25 and West College Drive).”  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  
“Ordinance amending the Major Street Plan Official Map 2003, by up-dating the entire Major
Street Plan Official Map with newly platted and built roads, and by adding the U.S. Highway 30 and
Dell Range Boulevard intersection, East Pershing Boulevard and Christensen Road intersection, and
U.S. Highway 30 and Christensen Road inter section details.”  Mr. Collins  moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion car ried.  Vot ing “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present.
“Ordinance amending the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation Fee Schedule” – referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
“Ordinance approving and esta blishing revised water rates, sewer rates, tap fe es, system
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and pe nalties and se ptic and commer cial
dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utili ties” – referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Pierson). 
“Ordinance appropr iating mone ys for the Cit y of Chey enne, Wyoming, f or the va rious
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 2011, and ending June 30, 2012” – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Dr.
Rinne).
“Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 3897 defining the terms and conditions of employment
for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne” – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Valdez).
“Ordinance mending Ordinance No. 3898 defining the terms and conditions of employment
for sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department” – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Valdez).
“Resolution authorizing the Mayor to terminate Lease Agreement No. 4745 entered into by
the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne American Legion Post 6 Baseball Club, Inc., dated March 28,
2005.”  Tagg Lain, Post 6 Legion baseball coach, reviewed the club’s baseball program generally;
its mission to develop and build a high level baseball program, and the club’s financial investment
in the Powers Field facility.  He commented on past and recent meetings that had been held with the
City as well as other baseball and girls’ softball groups, and State representatives involving past
Federal grant (Land and Water Conservation) funding received by the City to assist with building
Powers Field; discussed information on projected costs to build a new, unlighted second baseball
field at the facility and previous site design and earthwork that had been completed, and reviewed
components of the recent proposal from Post 6 to the City, during negotiation discussions pursuant
to the agenda item, involving completion of a second ballfield (i.e. varsity high school field) at the
facility in conjunction with the long range plan that was envisioned when the facility was built.  He
stated his belief tha t during negotiation discussions i nformation had be en learned that had not
previously been shared, causing a lack of an open and honest dialogue; that the potential termination
of the lease agreement and community publicity involved has affected the morale of team players,
and that the c urrent lease a greement is valid and Post 6 has complied  with provisions of the
agreement.  Mr. Lain  noted his hopefulness that a solution between the parties could be reached.
Ed Melko stated that although he agreed another field is needed, Post 6's suggestion to complete a
second field was not a solution.  His comments included Federal grant requirements related to use
by others of locker rooms, and outfield signage (advertising by Post 6 sponsors); contract wording
that indicates the Legion must comply with all Federal and state requirements, and problems with
initial drafting of the agreement.  He suggested the City build a facility for equipment storage for all
users, that the outfield fence height be raised to allow for sponsor signage for Post 6 as well as for
sponsors of other teams, and that the proposal for a second field be placed on the next 1% 6  pennyth
ballot.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez stated there was no recommendation on the
item from t he Committee.  M r. Collins moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown.  D iscussion
included the following topics: Status of negotiations between the parties in reaching an agreement
regarding signage and use of locker rooms; potential jeopardy to the City of receiving future grant
funding if provisions involving Federal Land and Water Conservation grant requirements are not
met; quality field maintenance; progress of efforts toward amending or modifying the current lease
agreement; support for Post 6 baseball program, and concern with a financial commitment by the
City involving construction of a second field.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, provided
information on negotiation discussions and proposals, advising a City resolution had been drafted
outlining that the City would install sidewalks to the 1  and 3  base dugouts and build a securest rd
storage facility.  He explained reasons why the proposed resolution should not be “married to the
agreement” as the proposed improvements at Powers Field and compliance with Federal law (grant
requirements) are two separate issues; discretionary authority of the mayor to issue a termination
notice if the r esolution is adopted and ef fectiveness of ter mination (60 day s after rec eipt); that
continuing discussions can still be held, and elements of a formal mediation process.  He stated the
issue is that the cur rent lea se is not in compliance with F ederal law.  Pursuant to re quest by
Councilman Pierson to  Mayor Kaysen, as c hair, Mayor Kaysen advised the  public participa tion
process involving the agenda item would be flexible during discussion. Upon inquiry, Mr. White
reviewed communications with Post 6 legal representatives involving a draft of a revised lease
agreement he had se nt them on Dec. 16, 2010 which would have  resolved the locker rooms and
signage issues, noting he was advised that Post 6 would not sign the proposed revised agreement.
Jack Speight, attorney, noted he and Hank Bailey, attorney, were present at the meeting to assist Post
6.  He  sta ted Po st 6  wo uld be  de lighted to  se ttle the iss ues su rrounding the  le ase a greement;
discussed Post 6's response by attorney Dallas Lain to City Attorney White regarding the proposed
resolution involving installation of sidewa lks and building of a  storage facility by the City, and
explained that the Board would want the resolution tied to a lease agreement.  Mr. Speight discussed
trust factors between the parties; willingness to negotiate, and a formal mediation process involving
an outside mediator.  Mr. Melko commented in opposition to Post 6's stance regarding consideration
of a revised lease, and repercussion to the City relative to availability of future Federal grant funding
for many City projects, not just Parks and Recreation areas, if the current lease is not terminated.
In response to inquiry, Mr. Speight noted issues of conc ern are more than just locker r ooms and
signage, but involve terminating a valid lease and furthering youth baseball in the community, and
commented on extending the current lease agreement term by an additional 5 years in any revised
lease as “quid pro quo” with the City.  Additional response included comments by Mr. Lain on trust
issues, importance of a commitment for a second field, scheduling and use of Powers Field by other
teams, and pr oposed fund-raising efforts by Post 6 t oward a hig h school varsity  baseball field.
Discussion continued and, upon query, included confirmation by Mr. White that the resolution on
the agenda relates to the lease agreement dated March 28, 2005 and non-compliance of le ase
provisions with Federal Land and Water Conservation grant requirements as communicated by a
Federal grant representative.  Rick Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation, provided information
on Powers Field (baseball field and facility) shared maintenance duties between the City, Post 6, and
other users, and City maintenance responsibilities if the lease agreement were terminated.  Upon
further inquiry, Mr. Parish stated his understanding that if the lease is terminated, Post 6 would pay
for use of the fi eld in accordance with other use r groups.  Fur ther discussion included: I ssues
surrounding Federal Land and Water Conservation grant requirements; Post 6 program success;
building of Powers Field with public dollars and Post 6 fund-raising efforts; proposed draft of new
resolution involving the City’s commitment to install sidewalks and a storage facility; draft revised
lease agreement and proposed 5 year additional term extension; building/maintaining a blue ribbon
baseball field; use of field by Post 6; lack of playing facilities for girls’ softball teams; negotiations
and communications pertaining to a proposed revised lease agreement and new resolution; numerous
Federal grants awarded to the City for many community projects and jeopardy of future disbarment
from re ceiving g rant funding ; sections of cur rent lea se ag reement i nvolving r esponsibility for
compliance with laws and regulations, and termination; change in use of field scheduling effected
last year, and possible agenda scheduling of the new resolution draft and a revised lease agreement
to coordinate with action on the current agenda item.  Mayor Kaysen relinquished duties of the Chair
to Council President Rinne to enable him to participate in discussion on the m otion on the floor.
Upon inquiry, Mr. White reviewe d his recollec tion of  communications with Ms. L ain and the
sequence of events involving the new resolution that was drafted proposing the City install certain
sidewalks and build a storage facility at Powers Field, which was intended to not be tied to the lease
as it was a se parate issue from no n-compliance with Cit y obliga tions as a L and and Water
Conservation grantee, and clarified if a termination notice was issued the current lease would still
be in effect for 60 days, which would  provide the opportunity for further discussion on compliance
matters.  Mr. Speight spoke in support of resolving issues through further discussions.  Mr. Pierson
moved to postpone to J une 13, 2011, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  It was advised the postponement
would allow for introduction of the new resolution that had been drafted, under other business later
in the meeting, for referral to Finance Committee.  Comments followed regarding termination of the
lease to send a message of the City’s intent to meet Federal grant compliance, information contained
in a letter dated April 2, 2010 from a Federal representative for the Land and Water Conservation
grant program to the State’s grant program representative indicating the current lease agreement was
not in compliance, and support for a new resolution and the December 2010 revised agreement draft.
Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez. Voting “no” --
Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins and Mayor Kaysen. [City Clerk note: Dr. Rinne,
presiding as chair, chose not to vote]  Main motion to adopt the resolution carried.  Voting “yes” --
Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mayor Kaysen and Dr. Rinne, who, as chair, voted to break
a tie vote. Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez. (#5275)  Following
announcement of the vote, President Rinne returned the duties of the chair to Mayor Kaysen.  Upon
inquiry under other business later in the meeting, Mayor Kaysen clarified the City will continue to
try to reach a resolution with Post 6 prior to any final termination date of the current lease agreement.
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at approximately 8:35
p.m.
“Resolution authorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  final plat for Chey enne
Business Parkway, 6th Filing, a replat of Lots 1 and 2, Block 4, Cheyenne Business Parkway, 4th
Filing; Lots 2 and 3, Block 2 and Lots 5 and 6, Block 1, Cheyenne Business Parkway, 3rd Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Christensen Road, between Campstool Road
and the UPRR right-of-way).”  Mr. Collins moved to adopt with staff recommendations #1 through
9, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present. (#5276)
[CA] “Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Pointe Plaza,
2nd Filing, a replat of Lot 2, Block 5, The Pointe, and a portion of Lots 1 and 2, Block 2, Pointe
Plaza, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located northeasterly of Ga rdenia Drive, be tween Spirit L ane and
Legacy Parkway).”  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5277)
“Resolution authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business Council,
Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program, for funding through the Business Committed
Grant Program to assist in making pedestrian and streetscape improvements to West Lincolnway,
West 17  Street, Thomes Ave nue and Pionee r Avenue adjacent to B lock 392, Orig inal City ofth
Cheyenne, Wyoming.”  Mr. Valdez moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Valdez moved
to amend by substitute, which changes the grant request amount to $770,625.00, seconded by Mr.
Collins.  Upon inquiry, Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager, clarified the substitute includes matching
land value added into the grant amount.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voti ng “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#5278)
“Resolution se lecting a  pr eferred p roposal a nd a uthorizing the  May or to e nter i nto
negotiations for the sale of approximately 28 acres of City-owned land located near the southeast
corner of the inter section of Windmill  Road and De ll Range Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming.”
Scott Nuttelman, Menards representative, spoke in favor of the proposal submitted by Menards to
potentially acquire the site.  He commented they have met with staff on several occasions to discuss
potential sites for the development of a Menards in the community, and advised he views the project
as more than just the construction of a Menards store but also for infrastructure improvements,
commercial development, building of streets, and as an enhancement to the Greenway and parks
space within the vicinity.  Upon inquiry, he clarified Menards would use approximately 20 acres of
the site and that a few lots along Dell Range Blvd. could be available for further development that
would complement the Me nards store. He advised the store’s  concept plan in size and footprint
would be almost identical to the Casper store.  Mr. Valdez reported there was no recommendation
on the item from Finance Committee. Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mr.
Pierson, seconded by Mr. Collins, moved to amend as follows: Modify the Resolution entitlement
by deleting the language “selecting a preferred proposal and”; deleting the 2  and 5  “Whereas”nd th
clauses, and dele ting “with _____” contained in the “ Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved” cla use.
Discussion followed on the intent of the amendments, which is to provide authority for the Mayor
to negotiate with interested parties;  opportunity for discussion with other interested developers;
receiving an updated property appraisal, and issuance of a Request for Proposals (RFP), resulting
in one proposal being received.  During discussion and upon suggestion, Mr. Pierson revised his
previous motion to amend to include deletion of the word “preferred” in the 3  “Whereas” clauserd
with concurrence by Mr. Collins, as second to the motion to amend.  Motion to amend, as revised,
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Brown
voting “no”.  Upon inquiry regarding use of proceeds if the property was sold, Dan White, City
Attorney, discussed Parks a nd Recre ation documents af filiated with a pa st relea se of a  g rant
boundary designation under Section 6 (f) [Federal Land and Water Conservation Act] provisions,
and stated further research is being conducted to ascertain how any potential property sales proceeds
may be  us ed.  Up on inqui ry, Mayor Ka ysen c larified th e int ent o f t he re solution is t o b egin
negotiation discussions and that no final dollar amount involving a  sale ha s been de termined.
Continuing discussion inc luded the following  topics: Concerns with the City  disposing of the
property; history of City ownership and allowable property use since acquisition of Section 28;
traffic and safety concerns pursuant to commercial development near Dell Range; use of the property
by the public since the City acquired ownership; previously approved PlanCheyenne amendment and
change in zoning involving the property; current depressed property market value; use of any sales
proceeds for Parks and Recreation purposes; past discussions involving potential sale of the property,
and commercial development in the are a.  During discussion, Councilman Allen referenced and
reviewed written information he had previously submitted to members of the governing body (on
file with  office of City Clerk) in opposition to sale of the property, and referred to 3 maps he
displayed during his comments.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Ms.
Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Dr.
Rinne and Mr. Valdez.  (#5279) 
[CA] “Resolution aut horizing submission of an applica tion to the W yoming De partment of
Transportation for a Wy oming Rura l Publi c Tra nsportation Prog ram Gr ant for the  purpose of
assisting in providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit
Program, as authorized by  49 U.S.C. § 5311” – ref erred to Fina nce Committee (sponsor -  Mr.
Valdez).
[CA] “Resolution amending the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plans for Fiscal Years 2006,
2007 and 2008 and reallocate funding to Habitat for Humanity Restore Annex for a Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG) project” – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - M s.
Broyles). 
[CA] “Resolution adopting the Certificate of Canvass and Declaration of Results of the Canvassing
Board of the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Special Election held May 10,
2011" – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne). 
[CA] “Resolution a uthorizing the  City  of  Che yenne, Wy oming, to  le ase, w ith a n o ption to
purchase, certain equipment for Sanitation, Recycling and Landfill Divisions” (Solid Waste fund)
– referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown and Mr. Pierson). 
[CA] “Resolution approving an Outsi de User Water a nd Sewer Services Agreement with the
Transportation Commission of Wyoming for the new State Tourist Welcome Center” – referred to
Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez).                                             
              
 [CA] “Resolution authorizing the Mayor to sign Lease #API-169 Amendment #2 with the United
States of Amer ica (through the United States De partment of Agriculture, Agricultural Research
Service) for the purpose of constructing fire hydrants near the Board of Public Utilities Round Top
Water Treatment Plant” – referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown, Mr. Spiker, Mr.
Valdez).
[CA] “Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on City
projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2011 Countywide Consensus
Block Grant funding” – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,
and WWC  Engineering, Laramie, Wyoming, for supplemental c onstruction inspection servic es
(2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5684)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for School Resource Officers for summer school 2011.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5685)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing  prisoners at the Laramie County Detention
Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5686)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Municipal Court, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for courthouse security services.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5687)
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betw een the C ity of Chey enne, T ransit Division, and
Laramie County, Wyoming, to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community
College, City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to the City –
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Airport Board for land to be used
for the Weed and Pest Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Airport Board for land to be used
for the Street and Alley and Compost Divisions (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Airport Board for land to be used
for Parks and Recreation softball and baseball fields (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of Wyoming for dental coverage
for full-time City employees – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Laramie
County School District No.1 for property west of Pioneer Park Elementary School to provide space
for modular classrooms – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Modification No.1 to Professional Ser vices Ag reement No. 5217 betwe en the City  of
Cheyenne, Planning Services Department, and Gould Evans Associates, LC, to complete additional
revisions of the Unified Development Code for the City of Cheyenne.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $15,000.00).  (#5217)
[CA] Contract Modification No.1 to Contract No. 5432 between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation
Division, and A-1 Organics for resources and services at the public Composting Facility – referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-13-11 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group,
Inc., d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the 2011 City Overlay project (2007-2010, 2011-
2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $1,730,597.40).
(#5688)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M- 19-11 for a contr act between the City of Chey enne and STC
Construction Company, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Westland Road Overlay and Improvements
Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.    
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-17-11 for annual contracts for snow removal and other services
(2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.    
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-29-11 for furnishing Panasonic Arbitrator 360 and laptop computers
from Wireless Advanced Communications, Evans, Colorado, for the Police Department (2007-2010
1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.    
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-27-11 for furnishing one new compact wheel loader with all wheel
drive from Wyoming Machinery, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste
fund) – referred to Finance Committee.       
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-19-11 for  furnishing and instal ling miscellaneous police  car
equipment from L.A.W.S., Englewood, Colorado,  for the Police Department (2007-2010 1% Sales
Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for 888 Mr. Hibachi,
LLC d/b/a Mr. Hibachi, 1439 Stillwater Avenue, Suites 1 and 2, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Authorization to purchase Microsoft Office 2010 software upgrade for the Cheyenne Police
Department – referred to Finance Committee. 
Appointment of Bradley G. Oberg to the Board of Public Utilities.  Mr. Pierson moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
[CA] Request to change winery dispensing room location and dimensions for Suite 1901, CLLC
d/b/a The Winery at Suite 1901, 1901 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance
Committee. 
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Philip M. Herrick, Lorri C. Jordan, Robert
L. Morris and Michael Sullivan to the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority Board to be
confirmed June 13, 2011.
Announcement was made of the Re-appointments of Larry Atwell to the Cheyenne - Laramie
County Economic Development Joint Powers Board, and Robert D. Clary and Harvey Deselms to
the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority Board to be confirmed June 13, 2011. 
Announcement was made that a calcutta will be held Thursday, June 2, 2011 beginning at
7:00 p.m. at Uncle Charlie’s Lounge, 6001 Yellowstone Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction
with the annual Uncle Charlie’s “DONE” golf tournament (15% of proceeds to benefit the Wyoming
Chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society).
Under other business:
In response to inquiry regarding a line item included in the proposed Fiscal Year 2011-2012
budget, Lois Huff, Deputy City Treasurer, advised the item involves a group affiliated with Youth
Alternatives grant funding.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 9:25 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 3, 2011