MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-06-13 | CLIP_ID: 224 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 224

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
June 13, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney. The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Kilee Stahley and Da llan Whistance, representatives of the  2011 Gre eley Independence
Stampede Committee, were in attendance to present a proclamation issued by the Committee to the
governing body.  Ms. Stahley read the proclamation and presented it to the governing body.  She
noted June 28  has been designated as Cheyenne Day during the upcoming 89th anniversary of theth
Greeley Stampede.  Ms. Stahley and Mr. Whistance invited members of the governing body and the
Cheyenne community to attend this year’s event in Greeley, CO. 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by
Ms. Ash and Mr. Brown agenda item #19 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Collins
moved to approve  remaining Consent Agenda items, sec onded by Mr. B rown.  Motion car ried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on May  28, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a  voucher payable to
Ameri-Tech H VAC Service s, and va cated Council Chambers.  Mr. Va ldez moved to approve
payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Mr. Allen moved to divide the question
to allow for  se parate action on the voucher  payable to Amer i-Tech HVAC Service s ($207.62),
seconded by Mr. Collins.  M otion carried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present in Council C hambers.  Approval of the  voucher payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services
carried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll members of the  g overning bo dy pr esent i n Co uncil Ch ambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.  Mr. Spiker moved
to amend to include on the vouc hers listing the voucher payable to the Dow ntown Development
Authority (DDA) in the amount of $580,126.27 that was postponed at the May 23, 2011 Governing
Body meeting, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, advised there are
some discrepancies in the way sales tax (affiliated with the amount of Tax Increment Financing (TIF)
funding) for the DDA district is reported and that the current voucher amount is incorrect.  She noted
discussions have been held with DDA and the State Dept. of Revenue and a corrected amount will
be submitted for approval at a later date.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body.  Mr. Spiker moved to divide the que stion to allow for separate action on the
voucher payable to the DD A, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motio n to divide the que stion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of  the g overning body.  Mr. Spiker moved to appr ove the vouc her
payable to the DD A in the amount of $580,126.27 that was postponed a t the May  23, 2011
Governing B ody meeting , seconde d by  Mr. Pierson.  Ms. Dorr requested the vouche r not be
approved to allow more time to obtain the correct payable amount.  Motion failed.  Voting “no” --
all members of the governing body. Upon inquiry, Ms. Dorr and Jim Elias, Public Works Director,
provided information on a voucher payable to VISA/UMB relative to an employee reimbursement
to the City ($25.00) and for I-Pads ($1,174.00) to be used for electronic tracking of traffic signs as
part of a new sign inventory system.  Police Chief Brian Kozak provided information pertaining to
a voucher payable to Cheyenne Regional Medical Center ($5,129.20) for police requested sexual
assault nurse medical examination services that had been provided within the past few months.  Main
motion, as amended, carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel(s) of land being situated
in the SE1/4 of Section 11, and in the NE1/4 of Section 14, T.13N., R.67W., 6  P.M., Laramieth
County, Wyoming (generally located at Interstate 25 and West College Drive).  Reporting for Public
Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  (#3921)
Ordinance amending the Major Street Plan Official Map 2003, by up-dating the entire Major
Street Plan Official Map with newly platted and built roads, and by adding the U.S. Highway 30 and
Dell Range Boulevard intersection, East Pershing Boulevard and Christensen Road intersection, and
U.S. Highway 30 and Christensen Road intersection details.  Mr. Collins moved to approve on third
and final reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the
governing body. (#3922)
Ordinance amending the City of Chey enne’s Sanitation Fee  Schedule.  Ed Me lko, John
Palmer, Edward Ernste and James Perot McNeil made comments in opposition to any fee increases
at t his t ime, referencing hardships on residents on fixed incomes, annexation and development
growth as a dditional revenue to help offse t costs, and us e of sanitation revenues to support the
general fund.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Mr. Brown.  Discussion included educating the public on how sanitation revenues are
used; assessing fees for multiple unit residential buildings; yard waste containers; concern with fee
increase effects on individuals on fixed incomes; municipalities’ limitation on generating revenue
to support City services as restricted by state law; general fund vs. enterprise fund; recycling efforts;
increases based on the Consumer Price Index amount of 3.2%; compost facility and transfer station
weekend hours, and estimated amount of revenue that would be generated if proposed fee schedule
increases were approved (i.e. approximately $250,000.00).  During  comments and upon inquiry
information was provided by Jim Elias, Publ ic Works Direc tor, concerning assessment of f ees
specifically for buildings that have multiple tenants; recouping cost of services that are provided;
availability of yard waste containers and a proposed $10 fee to pick up yard waste containers at the
end of the season if individuals do not wish to participate in the yard waste pick-up program, and
fees to assist with the cost of processing recyclable materials.  He discussed overtime labor costs and
indicated they will review Saturday hours at the compost facility and transfer station for possible
adjustment.  Upon inq uiry, Ba rb Dorr , City  Trea surer, advised Sanitation fee s have be en
incorporated within the g eneral fund since  at least the 1980s, a nd indicated the pr oposed 3.2%
increase adds up to approximately $250,000.00 in projected revenue for next year’s budget.  Motion
carried.  Voting “ yes” -- Ms. Ash, Ms. Br oyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. P ierson, Dr. Rinne and May or
Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.
Ordinance approving and establishing re vised water rates, sewer rates, tap fe es, system
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and pe nalties and septic a nd commercial
dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities.  Edward Ernste, local home builder;
Ed Melko; J ohn Palmer; Pacomio  Sandoval; J ames Perot Mc Neil; Charlie Giroux; P aul
Frauendienst, President, Southeast Wyoming Homebuilders Assoc., and local general contractor; Joe
Patterson, developer/home builder, Dakota Crossing Subdivision, and B ill Edwards, deve loper,
Saddle Ridge Subdivision, spoke in opposition to increased fees.  Topics discussed included: Ability
to build afforda ble homes; Boa rd of Public Utilities (BOPU) f ees vs. those a ssessed in other
Wyoming communities; whether fee adjustments are justified; use of revenues by BOPU; effect of
increases on individuals on limit ed incomes; burdening tax payers; current economic conditions
relative to residential housing sales; increased costs for food and medical expenses; infrastructure
improvements paid by contractors/developers affiliated with housing developments; water and sewer
tap fees; encouraging efficient “green” building pr actices, and prope rty appraisals affecting the
housing market.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr.
Valdez moved to amend by substitute Exhibit A, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Randy Hays, BOPU
administration, advised the amendment reflects a proposed rate decrease on oil exploration charges
effective July 1, 2011, with other proposed rates to become effective Jan. 1, 2012.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Upon inquiry, Tim Wilson, Director,
BOPU, verified that last year’s rate increase wound up being less than the proposed amount, and
stated if the proposed increases to fees, pursuant to the ordinance under discussion, were reduced,
planned projects would need to be reviewed for further prioritization.  He shared information on
proposed 2012 water and sewer projects; provided information on water and sewer reserve funds,
and re viewed a nticipated re venue a mounts that would be g enerated if the ra te incre ases we re
approved.  Dr. Rinne moved to ame nd by deleting Exhibit C affiliated with the  ordinance (i.e.
Schedule of Tap Fees, System Development Fees, Pump Station Development and Related Fees),
seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Wilson provided information on past and proposed
revenue generated from water tap and system development fees, and stated system development fees
are not used for nor mal operations and maintenanc e; it is set aside  to assist with the costs of
acquiring water rights and supply; water treatment; transmission mains and expansion of the water
and sewer systems.  Mr. Fr auendienst, Mr. Edwards and Mr. Er nste commented on the  costs of
building residential homes and reiterated their concerns with the proposed fee increases.  Topics also
discussed included the current status of available water for the community due to high snow pack
conditions and full reservoirs, and suggestion that watering restrictions be removed which would
generate more  water  sales, re sulting in more r evenue.  Discus sion followed on e asing water
restrictions; t he p roposed a mendment t o r emove E xhibit C;  f ee mo ratorium f or o ne year, and
encouraging development.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Wilson stated, as of March 31, 2011, the estimated
amount of water debt is $43.4 million and sewer debt is $36.9 million.  He explained BOPU could
meet its bond payment obligations without the proposed increases, but projects would need to be re-
evaluated.  Motion to amend by removing Exhibit C carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash and Mr. Brown voting “no”.  Upon further
inquiry, Mr. Wilson reviewed proposed FY2012 water and sewer budgets, amount of BOPU debt,
and funds use d for pr ojects, including amounts that could be utiliz ed from cash reserves.  He
indicated the amount of water reserves is sufficient, but that was not necessarily the same situation
for sewer reserves.  Concerns were expressed regarding removal of Exhibit C, which eliminates an
increase in fees for developers, but not reflecting the same consideration to other users.  Main motion
as twice amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception
of Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez voting “no”.
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:25 p.m.
Ordinance appr opriating money s for the Cit y of Chey enne, Wy oming, f or the va rious
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 2011, and ending June 30, 2012.  Ed Melko commented on the procedural process
of appropriating moneys before the FY2012 budget is approved.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Discussion included the following topics: Concern with
the City’s $1 million dollar bond obligation payment to BOPU being budgeted in reserves vs. the
general fund; optimisti c sale s tax  reve nue proje ctions; new phone s ystem; proposed sa lary
adjustments for employ ees; staf fing levels and inc lusion of funding for an employee sta ffing
analysis, job description review  and  wage survey  in the proposed budg et, and ne w employ ee
positions.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez. [Clerk’s
note: Refer to minutes below for additional action on this item]
Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 3897 defining the terms and conditions of employment
for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne.  John Palmer stated he did not personally
support the proposed $1,000.00 a year pay increase for employees based on his previous comments
during discussion on the ordinances concerning sanitation and BOPU fee increases, and questioned
employee Wellness Program requirements.  Rich Wiederspahn, Human Resources Director, provided
information on employ ee Wellness Prog ram participation compliance  requirements, stating the
information was recently issued to employ ees, and Mayor Kaysen confirmed the program is not
performance based and is not tied to any objectives or goals that must be met by employees.  Mr.
Valdez moved to approve on se cond re ading, seconde d by  Mr. B rown. Mr. B rown ra ised a
procedural question inquiring whether action on the ordinance should be taken based upon the
previous agenda item (re: proposed FY2012 budget appropriation ordinance) failing on second
reading.  Mayor Kaysen called for a 15 minute recess to allow the City Attorney the opportunity to
research the procedural issue.
Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 9:05 p.m.
Mr. Collins moved to reconsider the previous action taken on Agenda Item #12, seconded
by Mr. Pierson.  For the record, City Clerk Carol Intlekofer read the entitlement of the ordinance
proposed for reconsideration as follows: “Ordinance appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing
the amo unt of general a nd sp ecial ta xes a s p art of  the  re venue re quired to  me et th e sa id
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2011, and ending June 30, 2012.”  Ms.
Intlekofer noted for the record that Mr. Collins, as maker of the motion to reconsider, had voted on
the prevailing side relative to previous action taken during the meeting on the ordinance.  It was
noted the purpose of reconsideration was to meet statutory time frame requirements pertaining to
approval of the F Y2012 budg et.  May or Ka ysen c larified a motion to rec onsider re quires an
affirmative simple majority vote to pass.  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body.  Mayor Kaysen re-opened discussion by the governing body on the main
motion to approve pertaining to the FY2012 budget appropriation ordinance.  Comments included
potential revisions to the proposed budget pursuant to previous discussion and statements of concern,
and procedural criteria time-wise involving a motion to reconsider.  Main motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
Mayor Kaysen announced discussion on the ordinance involving terms and conditions of
employment for non-uniformed employees was back on the floor.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by
substitute Exhibit A, seconded by Mr. Collins.  M r. Wiederspa hn stated the revised Exhibit A
changes the minimum hourly rate for Grade I entry level employees to $7.25 an hour.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Upon inquiry regarding the pay
plan schedule and whether wording in Section 4. of the ordinance, pertaining to a proposed salary
compensation increase, was needed, Mr. Wiederspahn e xplained any increase has always been
included for clarification in the terms and conditions annual ordinance, and that the pay schedule
(Exhibit A) is utilized as a salary guideline.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, stated his
opinion that  the wording should be contained in Section 4. of the ordinance.  B arb Dorr, City
Treasurer, advised the pr oposed F Y2012 budg et re flects the increa se, and c oncurred with Mr.
White’s statement that the wording be  included in the compe nsation section (Sec tion 4.) of the
ordinance.  Upon inquiry regarding past salary adjustments, it was advised the adjustments have been
contained in the compensation section of the ordinance, which defines the terms and conditions for
non-uniformed employees f or the a pplicable f iscal y ear.  During  discussion on the employ ee
Wellness Program, Mr. Wiederspahn and Ms. Dorr provided information on blood draws and health
assessment form completion required for program participants.  D iscussion topics included the
Wellness Program; differing ordinance provisions relative to uniformed (Police) vs. non-uniformed
employees; proposed $1,000.00 employee salary increase, and ordinance effective term (i.e. 2012
fiscal year).  Main motion as amended by substitute Exhibit A carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Allen and Ms. Ash voting “no”.
Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 3898 defining the terms and conditions of employment
for sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Valdez moved to amend by substitute ordinance #2 dated
June 8, 2011, seconded by Mr. Pierson. Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, reviewed amended
language contained in the substitute regarding supplemental income for officers injured in the line
of duty who ar e receiving workers compensation benefits and pr oviding for use of  sick leave ;
circumstances under which the City would provide medical insurance coverage for a spouse of an
officer permanently, totally disabled or who dies in the line of duty , and extension of health ca re
coverage for employee dependents until they are 26 years of age in compliance with the fede ral
health care act.  Upon inquiry, Police Chief Brian Kozak provided information involving officers
who have been injured in the line of duty and have been off work for over a year, explaining officers
in those situations often file for workers compensation benefits and then seek medical retirement.
He stated the amendment would require the officers to claim sick leave time after a year had passed
to reach the maximum supplemental income amount allowed.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  Map of the Che yenne City  Code,  by chang ing the  zoning
classification from CB Community Business District to LI Light Industrial District for Lots 1 & 2,
Block 1; Lots 1 & 2, Block 2; Lots 3 & 4, 6-10, Block 3; and Lots 1-7, Block 4, Campstool Addition,
Third Filing , Chey enne, Wy oming ( located south of a nd adjac ent to Venture  Drive, e ast of
Campstool Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).   
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  Map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from CB Community Business District to LI Light Industrial District for Lot 1, Block
1, Hutchins Corner, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner at the curve
of Hutchins Drive, south of Campstool Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Collins).
Ordinance creating Section 17.116.155, Special Use Permit: Oil and Gas Support Services,
of Chapter 17.116, Design and Use Standards Generally, of Title 17, Zoning, of the Cheyenne City
Code -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authoriz ing submission of an a pplication to the Wy oming De partment of
Transportation for a Wy oming Rur al Public Transporta tion Progra m Grant for  the purpose of
assisting in providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit
Program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. § 5311.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5280)
Resolution amending the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plans for Fiscal Years 2006, 2007
and 20 08 a nd re allocate fu nding to H abitat f or Hu manity Restore Annex f or a  Com munity
Development Block Grant (CDBG) project.  Josh Nicholas, Director of Development, Habitat for
Humanity of Laramie County, explained they were made aware of available recaptured funding from
information posted on the City’s website, and pursuant to their research on funding availability and
requirements, a grant application was submitted for the Restore project.  Mr. Valdez moved to adopt,
seconded by Mr. Brown.  During discussion on the process utilized for use of recaptured dollars,
Deanne Widauf, Housing  and Community  Development Office, advised the current process for
allocating recaptured funding is not a competitive process as is used for full grant cycle requests,
noting a competitive process is very time consuming and staff intensive, and stated, pursuant to
Council concerns expressed on advising the public of recaptured funds that may be available, the
process may be changed in the future to be similar to full grant cycle requests.  She stated additional
information regarding recaptured funding availability will also be posted on the website.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5281)
[CA] Resolution adopting the Certificate of Canvass and Declaration of Results of the Canvassing
Board of the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Special Election held May 10,
2011.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5282)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to lease, with an option to purchase,
certain equipment for Sanitation, Recycling and Landfill Divisions (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5283)
Resolution approving  an Outside Use r W ater and Sewe r Service s Ag reement with the
Transportation Commission of Wyoming (new State Tourist Welcome Center).  Mr. Valdez moved
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mr. Valdez moved to amend by  substitute, seconded by Mr.
Brown.  Herman Noe, BOPU, advised the Tourist Information Center will connect to the water and
sewer system next to the Swan Ranch Development and commented that in the upcoming months
BOPU expects to receive numerous user agreement requests involving the Swan Ranch Development
area as lots begin to develop.  H e advised the proposed sub stitute resolution removes a clause
indicating BO PU did not need to bring  outside user a greements involving the Swan Ranc h
Development area before City Council for approval; the change will enable each future request to
come before the governing body.  James Perot McNeil expressed concerns with water and mineral
rights in the area and spoke in opposition to the resolution.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Noe stated he was
unaware of any mineral rights affiliated w ith the lots t hat may be deve loped.  Moti on to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Comment was made r egarding the
governing body’s authority to review these types of user agreements.  Upon inquiry, John Knepper,
Assistant City Attorney, reviewed a brief history of the governing body’s approval of outside user
agreements pursuant to a past resolution that is still in effect; provided information regarding the
governing body’s autho rity to review and a pprove B OPU outside user a greements, and noted
BOPU’s authority to approve outside user agreements pursuant to Wyoming Statutes.  Discussion
followed on the initial intent of the past re solution, as referenced by Mr. Knepper, providing for
review and approval of these types of agreements by the governing body.  Main motion as amended
by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  (#5284)
                                                          
 [CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor to sign Lease #API-169 Amendment #2 with the United
States of Amer ica (through the United States De partment of Ag riculture, Agricultural Research
Service) for the purpose of constructing fire hydrants near the Board of Public Utilities Round Top
Water Treatment Plant.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5285)
Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on City
projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2011 Countywide Consensus
Block Grant funding.  Ci ndy Schneider, Grants Manager, provided information on a proposed
substitute pr ojects list, no ting the  su bstitute re verses th e pr iority or der f or pr ojects c urrently
prioritized as #7 and #9, pursuant to request of the Public Works Department, and indicated some
project names have been changed for clarification.  She explained countywide consensus approval
process requirements i nvolving t he C ity, L aramie C ounty a nd t owns w ithin L aramie C ounty;
referenced a meeting of elected and administrative City, Laramie County and Town representatives
that had been held on May 17  to discuss the amount of funding for each entity; reviewed fundingth
amounts available and the agreed upon funding formula by the entities involved; discussed how the
City’s projects list was developed and prioritized through input by department heads, and noted a
grant match is not required.  Mr . Valdez moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Va ldez
moved to amend by substitute projects list, seconded by Mr. Pierson. It was advised those projects
prioritized as #7 (Replacement of Roofs, Garage Doors and Windows in Municipal Bldgs.) and #9
(Street & Alley Facility Expansion) have been reversed in priority order on the substitute lis t.
Comment was made on the  priority  level (#13)  listed for the L incolnway Utility  Corridor
Infrastructure project, and the desire to partner with the state and Downtown Development Authority
to accomplish the project.  Motion to amend by substitute projects list carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.  Dr. Rinne moved to ame nd the substitute list by changing the
priority order of projects as follows, seconded by Mr. Collins:  Leave #1 (Replace Underground Fuel
Tanks at Sanitation/Cemetery/Lube Shop) and #2 (Pioneer Baseball Field Lighting Safety Upgrade
(including scoreboard), Pioneer Park Concession, Score Booth, Restroom Replacement) as is; change
#3 (Ten ne w (Police De partment) vehicles and a  Server for Came ra System) to #6; chang e #4
(Reconstruct Campstool Rd.) to #5; change #5 (Pressure Management Phase I Construction-BOPU)
to #3; change #6 (New Aerial Fire Truck/partial funding) to #7; change #7 (Replacement of Roofs,
Garage Doors and Windows in Municipal Bldgs.) to #8; change #8 (Cheyenne Jr. League Facility
Replacement: Restrooms, Concessions, Storage and Maintenance Facility) to #9; change #9 (Street
& Alley Facility Expansion) to #10; change #10 ((Dunbar Field Lighting Safety Upgrade/Grounding
Correction (including scoreboard)) to #11; change #11 (Transfer Station Facility Remodel) to #12
change #12 (Holliday Park & Mylar Park Restroom Replacement) to #13; change #13 (Lincolnway
Utility Corridor Infrastructure/New Development) to #4 and reduce the requested funding amount
from $2,000,000.00 to $1,000,000.00, and leave #14 (Windmill Site Infrastructure: Water & Sewer)
as is. Upon re quest, Ca rol Intlekofer, City Cle rk, r eviewed th e pr oposed a mendment c hanges.
Christie DePoorter, Executive Director, Downtown Development Authority (DDA), spoke in support
of moving the Lincolnway Utility Corridor Infrastructure project, which involves the “downtown
hole” (as a result of a fire that occurred several years ago), to a higher priority, from #13 to #4.  She
advised improving the downtown hole has been a priority for downtown development to assist with
enticing interest by private developers.  Noting a discrepancy in the total funding request amount for
priority projects vs. substitute projects on the list affiliated with the motion to amend, Mr. Brown
offered a friendly amendment to the motion to amend on the floor by reducing the funding request
for the Lincolnway Utility Corridor project from $1,000,000.00 to $978,750.00.  Dr. Rinne, as maker
of the motion to amend, and Mr. Collins, as second to the motion, concurred with acceptance of the
friendly amendment to the motion to amend.  James Perot McNeil spoke in fa vor of making the
downtown hole a higher priority.  Discussion included the estimated cost for the utility corridor (just
under $1,000,000.00); obtaining a commitment by a developer who has expressed an interest in
building a hotel near the corridor; potential funding assistance that may be available through the
Wyoming Business Council, Economic Development Joint Powers Board, DDA and other entities
who may be interested in contributing to the corridor project; option of re-prioritizing the projects
list if needed at a  later da te, and c omments in support of moving the cor ridor project under the
priority projects category, instead of substitute projects.  Upon inquiry , Ms. Schneider a dvised a
project must be started within one year of g rant funding approval by SLIB, and that an invoice
evidencing project work has begun must also be submitted within the one year time frame year after
the project has been approved to meet SLIB requirements.  Ms. Schneider verified the countywide
consensus block grant projects list is planned to be submitted to SLIB by June 30; stated review of
the City’s proposed projects list by Laramie County Commissioners is scheduled for its June 21,
2011 meeting; advised there are additional SLIB meetings throughout the year when projects could
be submitted, and reviewed the process that is allowed by SLIB if any projects approved for funding
need to be  re-prioritized.  Discus sion continued on the time fra me in which to obtain a wr itten
commitment by the interested hotel developer relative to grant application deadlines involving the
corridor project; Campstool Road project, and concern with changing the priority of the Pressure
Management Phase I Construction project for BOPU from #5 to #3 and seeking funding through the
consensus block grant process vs. budgeting the City’s $1 million dollar bond obligation payment
to BOPU.  Upon inquiry regarding the reconstruction of Campstool Road project and recent state
legislation,  Mayor Kaysen advised dollars have been set aside by the State to help with county road
development, not roads located within municipal boundaries.  Upon request, Ms. Intlekofer reviewed
the proposed project priority changes to the projects list pursuant to the pending motion to amend,
including the friendly amendment that was offered and accepted.  Motion to amend the substitute
projects list , including the  friendly  am endment, carried.  Voting  “y es” - - all member s of the
governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”.  Ms. Ash moved to amend the amended
substitute projects list by striking priority project #3 -- Pressure Management Phase I Construction
(BOPU project) from the list and adjusting the priority numbers of remaining items accordingly,
seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Comment was made that the $1 million dollar bond obligation payment
to the BOPU should be funded in the budget instead of including  the project on the block g rant
projects list.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson and Dr.
Rinne.  Voting “ no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. B rown, Mr. Collin s, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Va ldez and May or
Kaysen.  Comments followed on the importance of the Campstool Road project, and the concept that
the City would own the Lincolnway Utility Corridor Infrastructure, if constructed.  Main motion as
amended by substitute projec ts list , as ame nded, ca rried.  V oting “ yes” - - all member s of the
governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash and Mr. Pierson voting “no”.  (#5286)
[CA] Resolution re-appropriating the fiscal year 2011 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Brown.
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cahill Park
Addition, a replat of Windmill Road, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast
corner of the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Windmill Road) -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
 
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for Niobrara
Energy Park, a replat of a portion of Tracts 6, 17 and 18, Clear View Tracts, and a portion of the N½
of Section 9, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of S. College
Drive (behind Lighthouse Baptist Church), north of Laramie County Community College) -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for Overland
Trails Business Park, being portions of Sections 14 and 23, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to I-25, south of W. College Drive) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cheyenne Light,
Fuel and Power East Cheyenne Business Park Substation, sit uated in a por tion of the SW ¼ of
Section 29, T.14N., R.65W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located approximately one-quarter mile
north of Venture Dr ive, approximately one-half mile west of the inter section of Ea st Pershing
Boulevard and I-80) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Union Telephone
Company and D's 4 Wheel Drive Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Lots 21 and 22, Block 420;
a portion of L ots 12-18, Block 421 and a por tion of House Ave nue, Original Cit y, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of E. 15th Street and House Avenue) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle Ridge,
Second Filing, a replat of Lots 21-24, Block 11, Saddle Ridge Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the nor thwest corner of the inter section of W ilderness Trail and Gunsmoke  Road) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for Transportation Enhancement
Activities - Local (TEAL) funds for continuation of the Greenway System; specifically, the Holliday
Park Connector Project -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution certifying that the Gover ning Body of the City  of Chey enne approves of the
County Projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2011 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant funding -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne). 
[CA] County Preliminary Plat of Country Homes Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a replat of Lots 7 and
8, Block 3; Lots 2-7, Block 4; Lots 1-3 and 6-8, Block 5; and Lots 1, 2, 7 and 8, Block 6, Country
Homes Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Citrus Street,
between Division and Pine Avenues) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] County Preliminary Plat for C.W. Subdivision, a replat of Tracts 6, 14 and 16-18, Clear View
Tracts; and a portion of Section 9, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located
south of and adjacent to E. Fox Farm Road, between Avenue C-2 and S. College Drive) -- referred
to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding betwee n the City  of Chey enne, T ransit Division, and
Laramie County, Wyoming, to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community
College, City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to the City.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5691)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Airport Board for land to be used
for the Weed and Pest Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5692)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Airport Board for land to be used
for the Street and Alley and Compost Divisions (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5693)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Airport Board for land to be used
for Parks and Recr eation softball and ba seball fields (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5694)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of Wyoming for dental coverage
for full-time City employees.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5695)
Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Laramie
County School District No.1 for property west of Pioneer Park Elementary School to provide space
for modular classrooms.  Mr. Valde z moved to approve, sec onded by Mr. B rown.  Mr. V aldez
moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Dan White, City Attorney, advised the
substitute provides for insurance and indemnity provisions.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advised the Board of Trustees
for LCSD#1 has approved use of its school buses for transportation services during the Frontier Days
celebration and for the City’s Recreation Camp program.  Main motion as amended by substitute
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5696) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Bill G. Hibbler for Professional Legal Counsel
for various services and representation -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No.1 to Contract No. 5432 between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation
Division, and A-1 Organics for resources and services at the public Composting Facility.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5432)
[CA] Consideration o f Bid #M-19-11 for  a contr act between the City of Chey enne and STC
Construction Company, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Westland Road Overlay and Improvements
Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed
$938,954.94).  (#5697)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-17-11 for annual contracts for snow removal and other services
(2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5698)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-29-11 for furnishing Panasonic Arbitrator 360 and laptop computers
from Wireless Advanced Communications, Evans, Colorado, for the Police Department (2007-2010
1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $126,389.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-27-11 for furnishing one new compact wheel loader with all wheel
drive from Wyoming Machinery, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste
fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $54,988.00).
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-19-11 for  furnishing and instal ling miscellaneous police  car
equipment from L.A.W.S., Englewood, Colorado,  for the Police Department (2007-2010 1% Sales
Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $82,900.42).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-31-11 for the Surplus Sale of "Two WANCO Message Boards" for
the City of Cheyenne Engineering Department -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointments of Philip M. Herrick, Lorri C. Jordan, Robert L. Morris and Michael Sullivan
to the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority Board.  Mr. Spiker moved to approve, seconded
by Mr. Collins.  Brief comment was made concerning Board member requirements.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not
vote (Mayoral appointments).
Re-appointments of Larry Atwell to the Cheyenne - Laramie County Economic Development
Joint Powers Boa rd, and Rober t D. C lary and Harvey  Dese lms to t he Chey enne D owntown
Development Authority Board.  Mr. Pierson moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen
who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
[CA] Authorization to purchase Microsoft Office 2010 software upgrade for the Cheyenne Police
Department.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Request to change winery dispensing room location and dimensions for Suite 1901, CLLC
d/b/a The Winery at Suite 1901, 1901 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Announcement was made of the Re-appointments of Jo Butler, Carol Matteson Pascal, Bebe
Molway, Robert Kanard, Abby Yenco and Chuck Otto to the Greenway Advisory Committee, to be
confirmed June 27, 2011.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 27, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for
Capiro Ambriento, LLC d/b/a Capiro Ambriento, 3617 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 27, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for
Morris House Ente rprises, I nc. d/b/a Morr is House B istro, 2114 Warre n Avenue , Chey enne,
Wyoming.
Announcement was made that a Calcutta will be held Saturday, July 30, 2011 beginning at
5:30 p.m.  at t he C alcutta T ent l ocated i n f ront o f t he O ld W est M useum a t F rontier P ark in
conjunction with 2011 Cheyenne Frontier Days Rodeo.  Proceeds to benefit Cheyenne area charities.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held  June 20, 2011 at 12:15 p.m. in City
Council Chambers for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for
fiscal year 2012.
Announcement was made of a Special Session of the Governing Body to be held June 20,
2011 at 12:30 p.m. in City Council Chambers for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and
Board of Public Utilities for fiscal year 2012.
Under other business, James Perot McNeil discussed family history regarding land ownership
and water and oil rights in the area.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 10:55 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 27, 2011
 