MEETING: Budget Hearing/Special Session of the Governing Body | DATE: 2011-06-20 | CLIP_ID: 228 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 228

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
June 20, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne convened in special session at 12:39 p.m. in
Council Ch ambers f or th e p urpose o f a cting u pon th e f iscal y ear 2 012 b udget a ppropriation
ordinance on 3  and final reading.  Those present were:  MAYOR: Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCILrd
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Pierson,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present were: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer; Randy Hays, Administrative Manager, Board of Public Utilities, and Erik Rasmussen,
Deputy City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
An Ordinance appropriating moneys for the City  of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, all for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2011, and ending June 30, 2012.  Edward Melko commented on the budget being
approved prematurely due to potential changes in the propose d budget.  Reporting  for F inance
Committee, Mr. Valdez  moved to approve the ordinance on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Pierson.  Mr. Valde z moved to amend by  removing funding for an employee salary study in the
amount of $75,000 and $220,000 from the general contingency fund, seconded by Mr. Pierson.
Vicki Nemecek, Assistant Public Works Director, advised of the need to offset sanitation costs if a
separate ordinance proposing a 3.2% sa nitation fees increase does not pass on f inal reading, and
provided information on the status of the Solid Waste fund and estimated increase ($800,000) in
funding that may be needed in fiscal year 2013 to cover such expenses as tipping fees, recycling,
equipment leases, fuel costs, additional areas of coverage due to annexation, etc.  She stated there
are no sanitation emergency funds available.  Claus Johnson spoke in favor of retaining the funding
for the employee organizational, classification and wage study, noting the study would provide a
future roadmap relative to staffing levels, position descriptions and responsibilities, and would assist
with retaining staff.  Mr. Melko commented on the hauling of solid waste to Ault, CO, landfill status,
consolidated landfills, and potential trash to energy technology.  Comments followed regarding the
proposed amendment to remove $220,000 f rom the g eneral contingency fund to offse t loss of
projected re venue thr ough incre ased sa nitation fees a s there w as no F inance Commi ttee
recommendation to approve that separate ordinance still pending before the governing body, and
concerns with a previous employee salary survey that was conducted.  Ms. Broyles moved to amend
by friendly amendment to the motion on the floor to keep funding for the employee study but reduce
the budgeted amount to $45,000 instead of $75,000, noting that Police and Fire Departments can
conduct an in-house salary study for their areas.  Motion died due to lack of a second.  Discussion
followed on the pros and cons of conducting an employee salary, classification and staffing level
study; support for the proposed budget as initially submitted; timing of amendments to the budget
being proposed; budget serving as an estimate and adjusting the budget, if necessary, through the re-
appropriation process; ordinances still pending before the g overning body concerning proposed
sanitation a nd B OPU f ee i ncreases a nd a ffiliated r evenue estimates; f iduciary r esponsibility;
delineating sanitation reve nue and c ost information for the public, a nd previous year’s financial
concerns during budget preparation which resulted in reductions in workforce.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.
Voting “no” -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen. Mr. Valdez moved to amend
by removing the estimated revenue amount of $186,000 from BOPU (Board of Public Utilities)
revenue (water) increases and deferring the L ions Park Drive w ater main project  at a projected
expenditure c ost of  $1 74,000, seconded b y Mr . Pi erson.  U pon in quiry, B rad B rooks, B OPU
Operations Maintenance, explained the water main project involves repair of an existing 850 ft.
feeder line that ties in from the west side of the Kiwanis Community House and helps serve Peanut
Pond, ending up at the Airport, and also serves City buildings as well as commercial and residential
customers.  He stated the line has incurred maintenance problems, that the project could probably
be delayed but it is  always unknown how long a line that has experienced problems will las t.
Comment was made that the amendment is due to the potential scenario that the BOPU fees increase
ordinance may not be approved on final reading at the June 27  City Council meeting.  Discussionth
included Finance Committee recommendations regarding the pending sanitation and BOPU proposed
fees increase ordinances and timing of the ordinances for review and action by the governing body;
estimated revenues meeting estimated expenses for the budget, and clarification that the proposed
amendment concerns the BOPU water fund.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Broyles,
Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez. Voting “no” - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash,
Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen.  Ms. Broyles moved to amend as follows: Include funding in the
amount of $25,000 to support Arts in Public Places (AIPP); cut the Fire Dept. clothing allowance
from $50,000 to $25,000; cut funding for a Planner II full-time position to a part-time position to
$33,546; with additional funds add $15,000 to Parks and Recreation Dept. for vandalism costs;
$18,546 to Police Dept. with $5,000 for access to crime reports.com; $1,000 to Parks and Recreation
for safety gear; $210,000 for Parking/Special Projects to upgrade the telecommunications system,
and remaining balance to go into g eneral fund re serves, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion failed.
Voting “yes” - Ms. Broyles.  Voting  “no” - - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Mr. Collins, Mr.
Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Mr. Spiker moved to amend to
remove $135,000 in BOPU sewer revenues and remove $130,000 from the BOPU expense side for
the project to replace manholes, deferring the project to a future fiscal year, seconded by Mr. Pierson.
Comments followed regarding the need to increase the fees by 3.2% for the sewer operating fund to
keep it in as good a shape as the water fund.  Discussion followed regarding water historical volume
and reserve statistics; current watering restrictions and possible modification by BOPU Board to ease
watering restrictions; sales of excess water; necessity for revenue increases for the sewer fund, and
funding the manhole pr oject in the fisca l year 2012 budget to place less stress on future  funding
needs.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.
Voting “no”- - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, and Mayor Kaysen.  Upon
inquiry, Captain Mitch Maxwell, P olice Department, provided information available regarding
personnel salary line items and funding  amounts.  Mayor Kaysen advised the police department
active staffing level is down due to officers in the military, receiving training at the police academy,
and medical related leave, and that work shifts are being adjusted to 12 hour shifts.  Upon inquiry,
Fire Chief J ames Martin provided information on personne l salary line items and revie wed the
necessity for an overtime budget to cover expenses for response to fire incidents, citing the Hitching
Post fire as an example, and staff coverage due to firefighters out on medical leave.  Upon inquiry,
Ms. Dorr reviewed the proposed increase in t he treasurer’s budget relative to t he Deputy City
Treasurer part-time position being proposed for full-time, and explained the allocation to the budget
line item titled “Attention Homes” includes monies budgeted for $250,000 to cover all of the human
services agencies not a specific payment to Attention Homes.  It was noted the title of the line item
would be changed so it does not appear that one agency was receiving all of the funding.  Ms. Ash,
seconded by Mr. Allen, moved to strike $582,000 in wage increases for employees; $50,000 for 2
vehicles for Planning/Development; $67,097 for a Planner II position in Planning/Development;
$5,000 for Engineering Training; $5,755 for a part-time position for Forestry; $20,000 for Aquatics
lifeguard pay; $16,590 for a part-time golf position; $12,000 for Police aircards; $17,600 for 2 part-
time street striping positions for Traffic; $1,500 for dues/subscriptions, $2,500 for attorney fees,
$1,000 for training budget, and $8,731 for professional services, all from the Attorney’s budget;
increase in m aintenance in C lerk bu dget by $1 ,100; in crease de pot/downtown ma intenance in
Parking/Special Projects budget by $13,000; cut $18,654 in contingency funds; cut $32,000 in Civic
Center events and activities; add $1,000,000 to BOPU’s budget and $12,770 to Parks and Recreation
budget toward a par t-time position at Botanic Ga rdens (Children’s Village); strike $70,000 for
curtains from the Civic Center budget and $33,090 for a police officer position from a 1 year position
to a 6 month position.  Ms. Dorr clarified the Civic Center events and activities line item is contained
in a non-general fund budget and stated something else would need to be stricken in the Civic Center
budget to effect the proposals suggested for change involving that area’s line items.  Ms. Ash revised
her motion to amend, with concurrence by Mr. Allen as second, to strike $32,000 from the Civic
Center general funding instead of f rom events and activities.  Discussion followed reg arding the
budget review process and pros and cons for the proposed amendment and the budget areas involved.
Topics included: Employee wage increases; funding of the $1,000,000 bond payment the City owes
BOPU through the general fund and not from reserves or potential SLIB funding; level of budget
reserves; current economic conditions; part-time staff position at the Children’s Village; DDA tax
incremental financing (TIF) payment; need for new telecommunications (phone) system, and health
insurance costs.  Upon query and with no objection raised from Council members, Mayor Kaysen
provided information on the proposed amendment areas regarding the last employee wage increase
(Jan. 1, 2009); priority items that were included for funding in the submitted budget as identified by
department heads to mee t obligations to provide se rvices; $1,000,000 BOP U bond obliga tion
payment due in December 2011; status of telecommunications system, and anticipated current fiscal
year-end unexpended general fund amounts.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Dorr explained the $70,000 request
for curtains for the Civic Center will be paid through the general fund, and if $32,000 is cut in Civic
Center non-general fund expenditures then the same amount would need to be cut in revenues.  She
reviewed end of year encumbrances and the first reappropriation of the fiscal year 2012 budget
process to address unexpended general fund budget amounts from the current fiscal year.  Motion
to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash and Mr. Collins.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Broyles,
Mr. B rown, Mr. Pierson, D r. Rinne, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and May or Ka ysen.  Discussion
followed regarding end of year projects and encumbrances; SLIB grant application and potential
funding time frames, and increasing the funding level from 1/3 to 1/2 for the Assistant Education
Director for the Botanic Gardens Children’s Village position and adding a part-time position at the
Children’s Village.  Rick Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation, provided information on funding
amounts for the full-time position at the Children’s Village relative to the difference in cost between
single health insurance vs family insurance coverage, and funding for a part-time position to provide
for Sunday hours at the Children’s Village.  Ms. Dorr advised the proposed budget, as submitted,
includes 1/3 funding toward the Assistant Education Director full-time position and to fully fund the
position $26,500 would be needed to make up the difference.  Dr. Rinne moved to fully fund the
Assistant Education Director position for the Children’s Village, utilizing the $30,000 excess in the
proposed budget due to a previously approved amendment made earlier in the meeting, seconded by
Mr. Allen.  Mr. Collins offered a friendly amendment to the motion to fund as much as possible the
part-time summer position for the Children’ s Village and utilizing any  remaining funds for the
Assistant Director position, with concurrence by Dr. Rinne as maker of the motion and Mr. Allen
as second.  Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 2:40 pm.  Dr.
Rinne announced, following discussion during the recess with representatives of the Botanic Gardens
Foundation Board present at the meeting, that the offer of the friendly amendment made prior to the
recess would not be accepted, with Mr. Allen concurring.  It was noted the Foundation would prefer
the City approve full funding  for the f ull-time Assistant Education Direc tor with any remaining
amount available  from the $30,000 g oing towa rd the pa rt-time position.  Com ments fo llowed
regarding funding of the Children’s Village positions by the City vs. the Foundation Board.  Pursuant
to the additional information, Dr. Rinne clarified the intent of the motion on the floor was to fully
fund the Assistant Education Director position first with the $30,000 amount, and fund the summer
part-time position as much as possible with the remaining balance from the $30,000.  Motion to
amend, as clarified, carried. Voting “yes” -- all members  of the governing body.  Upon inquiry
regarding money remaining in the g eneral contingency fund, Ms.  Dorr advised the a mount was
approximately $156,000.  Ms. Broyles moved to remove $25,000 in contingency funds and place it
in the Mayor’s budget for Arts in Public Places (AIPP) projects, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Ms. Dorr
advised the funding should be placed in the currently utilized fund instead of the Mayor’s budget to
enable funds to be ca rried over from year to year.  Ms. Broy les revised her motion to place  the
$25,000 into the budget fund suggested by Ms. Dorr, with concurrence by Mr. Valdez as second to
the mo tion.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Dorr stated the current balance remaining in the AIPP fund is
$34,616.00 a nd that  amount ha s b een c arried o ver i n th e pr oposed f iscal y ear 2 012 b udget.
Discussion followed on current available funding for AIPP projects; past funding amounts for AIPP;
AIPP Committee work and recommendations regarding community artwork, and no additional
funding for artwork projects being included in the proposed budget as submitted.  Motion to amend
failed (d ue to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez and
Mayor Kaysen.  Votin g “no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Br own, Mr. Pierson and Mr . Spiker.
Discussion continued and included possibly holding in abeyance some expenditure areas, such as
the $1,000,000 bond payment for BOPU, proposed new staffing positions, and vehicles, until a
decision is received pursuant to an application for funding through SLIB for a BOPU project; amount
of reserves, and $1,000 employ ee salary increase.  U pon inquiry, Ms. Dorr a dvised the funding
requested for 6 new positions totaled $333,500.00, and Mayor Kaysen reviewed the type and number
of proposed new positions, which includes the full-time position approved by amendment for the
Children’s Village, that would now total 7 positions.  Main motion as amended three times carried.
Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor
Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash and Mr. Collins.  (#3923)
There being no further  business previously  noted for the  special session, May or Kaysen
adjourned the meeting at 3:02 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 29, 2011