MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-06-27 | CLIP_ID: 230 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 230

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
June 27, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker
and Mr. Valdez.  Absent: Mr. Allen.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney. The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mayor Kaysen announced agenda item #17 was inadvertently
placed on the Consent Ag enda during prepa ration of the a genda, a nd, there fore, it was being
removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received
by Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash, agenda item #20 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request
by Ms. Ash, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Collins and Mr. Brown, agenda item #16 was
removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Spiker moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  M otion carried. Voting “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Governing Body on J une 13, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Special Session Meeting of the Governing Body on June 20, 2011.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Collins each declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to
vouchers payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and the Bicycle Station respectively, and vacated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by
Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Collins returned to Council
Chambers. 
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive input and comments on a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the Cit y Clerk's Office for Capiro Ambriento, L LC d/b/a Capiro
Ambriento, 3617 E. L incolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Comments wer e made welcoming the
owners of the new restaurant to the community.  There being no further comments and purpose of
the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.  The item was referred to Finance
Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive input and comments on a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Morris House Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Morris
House Bistro, 2114 Warren Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dameione Cameron, applicant, reviewed
the history of the restaurant’s location, explaining it is the former Esther Hobart Morris house, and
provided information on restaurant hours and menu items involving southern country cuisine. There
being no further comments and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the
hearing.  The item was referred to Finance Committee.
Ordinance amending the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation Fee Schedule. Reporting for Finance
Committee, Mr. Valdez stated there was no recommendation on the item from the Committee.  Mr.
Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mr. Brown moved
to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director,
advised the substitute removes the proposed 3.2% increase in commercial and residential solid waste
collection fees, and combines the residential automated collection and recycle services into one fee
with the rate s remaining the same.   He also reviewed various areas included in the substitute,
including roll-off container overweight/overload fees; transfer station fees for drop-off recyclable
items; commercial a nd residential r ecycling and y ard waste container fees; reduced rates at the
landfill for commercial clean load recyclable materials, charges per ton for unsecured loads at the
landfill, and elimination of free pickup of bags left outside of containers.  Frank Cole, developer,
reviewed a past circumstance involving inconsistency in assessment of fees for an unsecured load.
Upon inquiry, Mr. Elias confirmed the substitute eliminates the proposed 3.2% increase in fees, and
provided information on fees related to recyclables brought to the transfer station, secured loads,
notification procedures, unloading cardboard containers, yard waste container retrieval and cleaning
fees, and staff services and costs.  Comments followed on the proposed substitute.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne
voting “no”.  Concern was raised on assessing a fee for dropping off recyclable items at the transfer
station.  Main motion as amended by  substitut e ca rried.  V oting “ yes” - - all member s of the
governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne a nd Mr. Valde z voting “no.”  ( #3924)
Mayor Kaysen advised the sanitation fee schedule will be posted on the City’s website.
Ordinance approving and establishin g revised water rates, sewer rates, tap fee s, system
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and pe nalties and septic a nd commercial
dump rates, a s rec ommended by  the B oard of  Public Utili ties.  Charli e Giroux ex pressed
appreciation to City Council for its consideration in not increasing rates. Mr. Valdez moved to
approve on t hird and final reading, seconded by Mr. B rown.  Mr. V aldez moved to amend by
removing Section 4, and re lated Exhibit A, involving wa ter rates, and re -numbering remaining
sections, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon inquiry regarding the Board of Public Utilities’ review of
watering re strictions a nd po ssible re vision to t he re strictions wh ich c ould p otentially g enerate
revenue through additional water sales, Clint Bassett, BOPU Water Conservation Specialist, advised
the Board has requested a recommendation be provided from the Water Conservation Committee.
He stated the Committee would be meeting at noon on Thurs., June 30, at the Laramie County
Library Windflower Room.  It was confirmed the amendment removes proposed fee increases to
water rates with proposed sewer rates remaining intact.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” --
Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr.
Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Main motion as amended failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown,
Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Pierson, Mr.
Spiker and Mr. Valdez voting “no”. [Clerk’s note: Main motion for an ordinance on third and final
reading requires six affirmative votes to pass.]
Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 3897 defining the terms and conditions of employment
for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne.   Mr. Valdez moved to approve on third and
final reading, seconde d by Ms. Broy les. Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” - - all member s of the
governing body present with the exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”. (#3925)
Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 3898 defining the terms and conditions of employment
for sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve on third and
final re ading, sec onded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” - - all member s of the
governing body present with Ms. Ash voting “no”. (#3926)
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  Map of the Che yenne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from CB Community Business District to LI Light Industrial District for Lots 1 & 2,
Block 1; Lots 1 & 2, Block 2; Lots 3 & 4, 6-10, Block 3; and Lots 1-7, Block 4, Campstool Addition,
Third Filing , Chey enne, Wy oming ( located south of a nd adjac ent to Venture  Drive, e ast of
Campstool Road).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon inquiry regarding past re-zoning actions involving the
property, Jim Flesher, Planning/Development office, provided information on uses allowed, some
involving board approval, under CB and LI zone designations.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.   
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 1 7.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne Ci ty Map of the Che yenne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from CB Community Business District to LI Light Industrial District for Lot 1, Block
1, Hutchins Corner, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner at the curve
of Hutchins Drive, south of Campstool Road).  Mr. Collins moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon inquiry regarding allowable building designs in a LI zone, Jim Flesher,
Planning/Development office, advised if the zone change was approved current criteria for an LI
zone would apply.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with
the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
Ordinance creating Section 17.116.155, Special Use Permit: Oil and Gas Support Services,
of Chapter 17.116, Design and Use Standards Generally, of Title 17, Zoning, of the Cheyenne City
Code.  Mr. Collins moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Mr. Collins moved
to amend Section E. 4. by changing 18 months to 12 months and by removing the sentence “Any
application that has not established the Special Use within 1 year shall be void,” seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Brad Emmons, AVI, commented that a longer term (i.e. 18 months) should be considered
due to  the lengthy time frame involving an applicant’s site plan process.  Donald James Perot
McNeil suggested the governing body carefully consider the permit process for correctness.  Upon
inquiry, Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, explained the amendment would provide for the
application to be valid for up to 12 months with the ability to seek a 6 month extension, and John
Knepper, Assistant City  Attorney, provided infor mation regarding permit time fra me, extension
period and permit approval process.  Discussion followed on the permit time frame and permit
application process.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body
present.  Upon inquiry  regarding outside storage and sc reening of adjacent public rig hts-of-way
contained in Section B. 3. of the ordinance, Mr. Ashby provided information on what types of areas
would be involved in screening requirements; definition of oil and gas services; building permits;
code enforcement; site plan public notification requirements; landscaping, and what might constitute
“sufficient height” relative to screening requirements and certain types of equipment or supplies.
In response to inquiry pertaining to a specific site that may involve oil and gas support services, Mr.
Ashby stated he was not aware of any discussion regarding placement of a helicopter pad.  Upon
inquiry, May or Ka ysen advised oil supply  companies a nd contac ts from local developers a nd
landowners, principally in the eastern Cheyenne area, had requested the ordinance.  Upon inquiry,
Dan White, City Attorney, advised he was not aware of any exceptions in nu isance ordinances
involving certain effects, such as odors, pa rticulate matters, etc., a nd indicated if some unusual
activity occurs, it could be determined to be a nuisance.  Mr. Ashby further clarified uses emitting
noise and light pollution would require special board of adjustment approval and a hearing process
pursuant to the zoning code.  Comments included concern with undesirable aesthetic conditions such
as possible junk vehicles, tires, and cleanliness of the property, and support for oil and gas activities.
Ms. Ash moved to amend Section B. 4. to provide for a revised definition of maintenance to read
“Maintenance is d efined a s a ny a ctivity related to  up keep o f vehicles o r equipment t hat ha s a
potential of causing the discharge of chemicals, lubricants, or other hazardous substances onto the
ground,” seconded by Mr. Collins, as referenced in Mr. Ashby’s memo dated June 27, 2011.  Mr.
McNeil cautioned the governing body to make good amendments, and expressed his concern with
the fracking process.  Upon reque st, Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk, re iterated the wording of the
pending motion to amend.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body pr esent.  Pur suant t o in quiry re garding wo rding c ontained in the or dinance re lative to
restrooms, Mr. Ashby advised he would further review the topic.  Concern was raised regarding the
height of screening and buffering requirements, particularly due to topography conditions.  Main
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
Resolution re-appropriating the fiscal year 2011 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Mr. Valdez moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.
Brown.  Upon inquiry regarding designated general fund reserves involving the TIF (Downtown
Development Authority Tax Increment Funds),  Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, advised the exact amount
of rollover budget amounts would not be known until the year-end closes and adjustments have been
made, a nd that in either c ase, w hether the pay ment was m ade f rom reve nues or r eserves, re -
appropriation of the budget would have to be done.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present.  (#5287)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for Ca hill Park
Addition, a replat of Windmill Road, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast
corner of the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Windmill Road).  Charlie Giroux suggested
leaving the parcel as park land, and Donald James Perot McNeil spoke in opposition to selling City
land.  Mr. Collins moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Comments followed on the purpose of the
resolution, which will align streets, and concern with sale of the property.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne and Mr. Valdez
voting “no”.  (#5288)
 
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for Niobrara
Energy Park, a replat of a portion of Tracts 6, 17 and 18, Clear View Tracts, and a portion of the N½
of Section 9, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of S. College
Drive (behind Lighthouse Baptist Church), north of Laramie County Community College).  Donald
James Perot McNeil expressed concern with safe storage of products in close proximity to a school
and businesses.   Mr. Collins moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Mr. Collins moved to postpone
for two weeks (to July 11, 2011), seconded by Ms. Ash.  It was advised the developer had requested
a postponement to work on a development agreement between the City and County.  M otion to
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for Overland
Trails Business Park, being portions of Sections 14 and 23, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to I-25, south of W. College Drive).  Mr. Collins
moved to adopt with staff recommendations #1 through10, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5289)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cheyenne Light,
Fuel and Power East Cheyenne Business Park Substation, situated in a portion of the SW¼ of
Section 29, T.14N., R.65W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located approximately one-quarter mile
north of Ve nture Drive, approxim ately one-half mile west of the inter section of Ea st Pershing
Boulevard and I-80).  Ma yor Kaysen declared a conflict of interest (f amily affiliated financial
interest); relinquished duties of the chair to Council President Rinne, and vacated Council Chambers.
Mr. Collins moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Up on inquiry regarding use of community
facilities fees pu rsuant to City Code Section 17.136.090 which a llows for a pe r tree monetary
donation for reduction of the required number of trees affiliated with a site plan, Rick P arish,
Director, Parks and Recreation Department, explained the City Code section allows for a monetary
donation to be made when a tree reduction (landscape variance) is approved.  He stated the monetary
donation will go into a fund for trees in other areas, noting the department’s intent is to plant trees
in east Cheyenne park areas and South Community Park, and advised the applicant has no objection
to the funding  being used for  those are as.  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mayor Kaysen
returned to Council Chambers and Council President Rinne re turned duties of the chair to Mayor
Kaysen. (#5290)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Union Telephone
Company and D's 4 Wheel Drive Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Lots 21 and 22, Block 420;
a portion of Lots 12-18, Block 421 and a portion of House Avenue, Original C ity, C heyenne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of E. 15th Street and House Avenue).
Mr. Collins moved to adopt with staff recommendations #1 through 5, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Mr.
Collins moved to amend by adding staff recommendation #6 which reads “Require an easement for
the existing water main”, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Mo tion to amend carried.  V oting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.  Ma in motion as amended carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.  (#5291)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle Ridge,
Second Filing, a replat of Lots 21-24, Block 11, Saddle Ridge Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the nor thwest corner of the inters ection of Wilderness Trail and Gunsmoke  Road).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5292)
[CA] Resolution supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for Transportation Enhancement
Activities - Local (TEAL) funds for continuation of the Greenway System; specifically, the Holliday
Park Connector Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5293)
[CA] Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne approves of the
County Projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2011 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant funding.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5294)
[CA] Resolution approving Outside User  Water/Sewer Services Agreement with Granite Peak
Properties, LLC, Lot 1, Block 1, Swan Ranch Rail Park, Third Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Pierson and Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Resolution a pproving Ou tside Us er S anitary Se wer S ervices A greement w ith Ma rvin
Strubhar, 3408 Victoria Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -
Mr. Pierson and Mr. Valdez).
[CA] County Preliminary Plat of Country Homes Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a replat of Lots 7 and
8, Block 3; Lots 2-7, Block 4; Lots 1-3 and 6-8, Block 5; and Lots 1, 2, 7 and 8, Block 6, Country
Homes Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Citrus Street,
between Division and Pine Avenues).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
County Preliminary Plat for C.W. Subdivision, a replat of Tracts 6, 14 and 16-18, Clear View
Tracts; and a portion of Section 9, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located
south of and adjacent to E. Fox Farm Road, between Avenue C-2 and S. College Drive).  Mr. Collins
moved to acknowledge receipt with staff recommendations #1, 2, 5, 6 and 7, seconded by Ms. Ash.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Bill G. Hibbler for Professional Legal Counsel
for various services and representation.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5703)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the  Cheyenne Animal Shelter for A nimal
Shelter Services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter for Animal
Control Services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres Associates to
develop the Snyder Avenue storm sewer upgrade design (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-31-11 for the surplus sale of two WANCO Message Boards for the
City of Cheyenne Engineering Department.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid of S
& J Signs, Inc., revenue to the City in the amount of $3,000.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-32-11 for the surplus sale of approximately 600 95-gallon damaged
plastic refuse containers for the Sanitation Division -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-21-11 for a  contract between the City  of Chey enne and Aztec
Construction Company, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Sny der Avenue Stormwater Pipeline
Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-23-11 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Streamline
Markings, Inc.,  Billings, Montana, for the railroad crossing pavement marking upgrades for various
City streets (federal funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-24-11 for  a contr act between the City  of Chey enne and Great
Western Pa rk a nd Pl ayground, We llsville, U tah, f or th e D avid R.  Ro mero Co mmunity Park
Playground Surfacing Renovation Project  (Community Facilities fees-Park Infrastructure) -- referred
to Finance Committee.
Re-appointments of Jo Butler, Carol Matteson Pascal, Bebe Molway, Robert Kanard, Abby
Yenco and Chuck Otto to the Greenway Advisory Committee.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve ,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  M otion carried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the g overning body
present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 11, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for applications for two available
retail liquor licenses filed with the City Clerk's Office by One East Sixteenth, LLC d/b/a TBD, 1601
Central Avenue; Cheyenne Depot Museum, Inc. d/b/a Cheyenne Depot Museum, 121 West 15th
Street; Syvn, Inc. d/b/a TBD, 218 West 17th Street; MTM, Inc. d/b/a The Cowboy Grill, (address
not yet issued) to be located off Powderhouse Road between Spirit Lane and Gardenia Drive in The
Pointe Plaza, and Let’er Buck Investment Group, LLC d/b/a Steamboat’s, (address not yet issued)
to be locate d off Ga rdenia Drive between Yellowstone Road a nd El Camino Real in Cathedral
Commons.
Announcement was made that due to the July 4th Holiday, regularly scheduled City Council
Committee me etings w ill ins tead be  he ld i n th e Mu nicipal B uilding, Ro om 1 22, 2 101 O ’Neil
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming,  as follows: Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, July 5, 2011 at
11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday, July 6, 2011 at Noon.  
Announcement was made of the Re-appointments of Phil Griggs, James Dittman, Mary
Aragon, and Ami Skeens to the Public Transit Advisory Board to be confirmed July 11, 2011. 
Under other business, announcement was made of the 2012 Cheyenne Neighborhood Night
Out event, coordinated by the Cheyenne Police Department, which will be held Tuesday, July 12 and
that persons interested in being block captains for the activity in their neighborhood should contact
the Police Department for information.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 7:49 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 11, 2011
 