MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-07-11 | CLIP_ID: 232 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 232

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
July 11, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
 Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins (arriving at 6:07 p.m.), Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr.
Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Absent: Mr. Allen.  Also present: Kristy Anderson, Deputy City Clerk; Barb
Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney. The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Valdez, and pursuant to support received by Ms. Broyles
and Dr. Rinne, agenda items # 25 (a) a nd (b) were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried. Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 27, 2011.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to appr ove payment of vouche rs as pre sented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for applications for two
available retail liquor licenses filed with the City Clerk's Office by One East Sixteenth, LLC d/b/a TBD,
1601 Central Avenue; Cheyenne Depot Museum, Inc. d/b/a Cheyenne Depot Museum, 121 West 15th
Street; Syvn, Inc. d/b/a TBD, 218 West 17th Street; MTM, Inc. d/b/a The Cowboy Grill, (address not
yet issued) to be located off Powderhouse Road between Spirit Lane and Gardenia Drive in The Pointe
Plaza, and Let’er Buck Investment Group, LLC d/b/a Steamboat’s, (address not yet issued) to be located
off Gardenia Drive between Yellowstone Road and El Camino Real in Cathedral Commons.  Mayor
Kaysen announced the application for Syvn, Inc. was being withdrawn from the agenda at the request
of the applicant.  Owen Groshart, partner, Mingles Bar, and Wally Reiman spoke in opposition to the
Cheyenne Depot Museum’s application, expressing concerns with a City sponsored entity competing
with other businesses and proposed liquor license operations not fully utilizing a retail type license to
its full capacity.  James Bowers, Executive Director, Cheyenne Depot Museum (Depot), explained the
Depot is a non-profit agency that receives no City, state or federal funding; the retail liquor license will
allow them to offer services to those people interested in renting their facilities for events and activities;
that the Depot is not trying to compete with downtown businesses, and that the Depot is a private entity
leasing the building from the City. There being no further comments or discussion and purpose of the
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the applications to the Finance
Committee.
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and Section
17.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning classification from
CB Community Business District to LI Light Industrial District for Lots 1 & 2, Block 1; Lots 1 & 2,
Block 2 ; L ots 3  & 4 , 6 -10, Bl ock 3 ; an d L ots 1 -7, Bl ock 4 , Campstool Addition, T hird Fi ling,
Cheyenne, Wyoming ( located south of a nd adjac ent to Venture  Drive, e ast of Campstool Road).
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Ms. Ash. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#3927) 
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and Section
17.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning classification from
CB Community Business District to LI Light Industrial District for Lot 1, Block 1, Hutchins Corner,
2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner at the curve of Hutchins Drive, south
of Campstool Road).  Mr. Collins moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#3928)
Ordinance creating Section 17.116.155, Special Use Permit: Oil and Gas Support Services, of
Chapter 17.116, Design and Use Standards Generally, of Title 17, Zoning, of the Cheyenne City Code.
Mr. Collins moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon inquiry regarding
outside storage and screening of adjacent public rights-of-way contained in Section B.3. of the
ordinance, Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, explained the purpose of this section is to provide
a buffer from other properties and public rights-of-way with some flexibility in the screening area.  He
provided information on what ty pes of e quipment would not be in compliance w ith the heig ht and
screening requirements, and reviewed the definition for storage and types of equipment to be stored
under the permit. He further explained the ordinance does not prohibit re-application for a special use
permit after expiration of the permit following the 2 year time frame.  Comments followed regarding
concerns with  what mig ht constitute “sufficie nt heig ht” re lative to scre ening require ments for
equipment.  Mr. Collins moved to amend Section B.3., to remove the language “of sufficient height to
fully screen all stored materials,” seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Discussion continued on the importance of
some screening requirements as the businesses are located in the eastern gateway into the City.  Motion
to amend carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr.
Brown voting “no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present. (#3929)
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and Section
17.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning classification from
CB Community Business District (Conditional) to LI Light Industrial District for Lots 2 & 3, Block 1,
Hutchins Corner, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Hutchins Drive,
south of Campstool Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for Niobrara
Energy Park, a replat of a portion of Tracts 6, 17 and 18, Clear View Tracts, and a portion of the N½
of Section 9, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of S. College Drive
(behind Lighthouse Baptist Church), north of Laramie County Community College). Brad Emmons,
AVI, agent for applicant, reviewed items they were requesting for changes in the affiliated Development
Agreement as outlined in a memo to the g overning body dated July 11, 2011.  He state d requested
changes include: Removing Condition #15, which requires construction of Allison Road to the west plat
boundary of the property; providing overhead power lines instead of underground lines as this is already
in place for the area and placing underground power lines would be much more costly; changing the
Resolution to di rect the Mayor and City Clerk to sign the D evelopment Agreement, and ame nding
several technic al/clerical i tems in the Deve lopment Ag reement.  L isa Paffor d, Building  and
Development Office, added that staff agrees with the content of the changes submitted and also agrees
with a 2 week postponement in order to make changes accordingly.  Ms. Pafford submitted a letter from
City Engineer Doug Vetter, regarding the Allison Road extension, that was provided to her before the
meeting.  Brad Graham, developer of project and member of Coll-Ind, LLC, commented on the project,
stating they are working with the City and County (re: Development Agreement issues) and that a n
application for a  Business Ready grant to assist with the project has been submitted.  He clarified he
is not opposed to extending Allison Road but the County would like to cul-de-sac the road; reviewed
the recommendation from Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power with regard to overhead power lines, and
noted the intent of the pr operty location is t o serve as a site to loca te oil company  equipment and
supplies.  Mr. Collins moved to adopt with staff recommendations #1 through19, seconded by Ms. Ash.
Mr. Spiker moved to amend the Development Agreement, seconded by Mr. Collins, with 4 technical
items as follows: Section 3.a. - add the word “concurrently” between the words “built and “with” and
the word “road” between the words “of” and “infrastructure”; Section 3.c. - add the words “by legal
procedures of the entity with jurisdiction” after the word “vacated”; Section 5.c. -  remove the words
“Fire Department”; add a new Section 4.c. - “Lots adjacent to the existing school parcel will be required
to place a 3 ft. landscape berm with a 4:1 slope with a 6 ft. privacy fence placed on the top of the berm.
Landscaping will also be placed along the berm.”.  Mr. Spiker raised a point of order regarding the
motion to amend with May or Kaysen clarifying the motion on the flo or.  Motion to amend car ried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Mr. Spiker moved to amend that the Mayor
has the authority to s ign the Development Agreement and changing the resol ution to re flect this,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Mr. Spiker moved to amend Condition #15 to extend the right-of-way to be set aside for the west
boundary with the developer having the ability to create a cul-de-sac 400 ft. short of the west boundary
as recommended by the County, seconded by Mr. Brown.  M r. Emmons noted the right-of-way is
already set to be platted for extension to the west boundary and is a temporary easement for a cul-de-
sac.  Mr. Spiker stated if the right-of-way is to be platted he would withdraw his motion.  Mr. Brown,
as second to the motion, concurred with the motion being withdrawn. Mayor Kaysen announced the
motion was withdrawn.  Mr. Spiker  moved to amend to re move Condition #15, seconde d by Mr.
Brown.  U pon in quiry, M r. Em mons e xplained b uilding of  the  c ul-de-sac in t he ri ght-of-way in
relationship to potential future extension of the road.  F urther comments followed on connectivity,
future road extension and reservation of the road right-of-way.  Motion to amend to remove Condition
#15 carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Emmons
discussed overhead power lines vs. underground lines, provisions of the Development Agreement, and
requested an amendment to allow for ornamental street trees to be planted if overhead lines are allowed.
Mr. Spiker moved to amend to allow overhead power lines and ornamental street trees, seconded by Mr.
Collins.  Ms. Pafford advised that staff will proceed  with changes pursuant to the amendments with
final review by the city attorney.  It was confirmed neither the developer nor staff felt postponement of
the item was needed.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Upon inquiry, Mr. Emmons clarified that overhead power lines will be planned; urban standards for
curb and gutter will be met, and, pursuant to the Development Agreement, a greenway path is also
planned.  Comment was made  regarding not having  overhead power lines as a standa rd for future
developments.  Main motion as ame nded four times carr ied.  V oting “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present. (#5295)
[CA] Resolution approving  Outside User  Water/Sewer  Services  Agreement with Granite Pea k
Properties, LLC, Lot 1, Block 1, Swan Ranch Rail Park, Third Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5296)
[CA] Resolution approving Outside User Sanitary Sewer Services Agreement with Marvin Strubhar,
3408 Victoria Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5297)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the filing of an application with the Federal Transit Administration, an
operating administration of the United States Department of Transportation, for Federal Transportation
Assistance authorized by Title 49, United States Code, Section 5307 (C heyenne Transit Program) --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne approves of the Albin
and Burns projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2011 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant funding -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for CFT Cheyenne Dell
Range, a replat of a portion of Lot 1, Block O ne, Cole Fire Station Addition, Chey enne, Wyoming
(located north of De ll Range Boulevard, west of Grandview Avenue) -- referred to Publi c Services
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authoriz ing the  Mayor and the  City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for WYODI GS
Properties Subdivision, a replat of Lots 5, 6, & 7, Block 4, Campstool Addition, Third Filing, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Industry Court and Industry Drive) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Hospital Center,
1st Filing, a replat of Lots 1 thru 8, Block 138; Lots 1 thru 8, Block 139; Lots 1 thru 8, Block 172; Lots
1 thru 8, Block 173; Lots 1 thru 8, Block 200; vacated 16-foot alley in Blocks 138, 139, 172, 173, and
200; vacated 23rd Street between House Avenue and Evans Avenue; vacated House Avenue between
23  S treet a nd 2 4  S treet; a nd H ouse A venue b etween 2 4  S treet a nd 2 5  S treet, O riginal C ity,rd th th th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Warren and Evans Avenues and E. 22nd and 25th Streets) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution approving all loan documents for the State of Wyoming Drinking Water State
Revolving Fund Loan #120 in the amount of $9.4 million for the Southern Water Transmission Main
Phase II Project and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and Director of the Board of Public Utilities to
execute all related loan documents” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown and Mr.
Spiker).
[CA] Resolution approving a project agreement with the Wyoming Water Development Commission
for a grant in the amount of $14,029,800 for the Southern Water Transmission Main Phase II  Project
and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute all related
agreements and documents” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown and Mr. Spiker).
[CA] Preliminary PUD Planned Unit Development (Zone Change) from MR-1 Medium Density
Residential-Established and P Public Districts for Blocks 138, 139, 172, 173 and 200,Original City,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between E. 22nd and E. 25th Streets, east of Warren and west of Evans
Avenues) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter for Animal Shelter
Services. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $319,192.00). (#5704) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter for Animal Control
Services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $192,646.92). (#5705) 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres Associates to develop
the Snyder Avenue storm sewer upgrade design (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  (Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $80,855.00). (#5706)
[CA] Land Lease Ag reement and  Memorandum of L and Lease Agreement betwee n the City  of
Cheyenne and Verizon Wireless for installation and maintenance of a cell tower in North Cheyenne
Community Park -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Stride Learning Center to provide cooperative
transit services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Laramie County, and the Chey enne Downtown
Development A uthority fo r t he pu rpose of administering the  te rms a nd c onditions o f t he  U.  S.
Environmental Pr otection A gency (E PA) B rownfields As sessment Coa lition Gr ant - - r eferred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-32-11 for the surplus sale of approximately 600 95-gallon damaged
plastic refuse containers for the Sanitation Division.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (Go Green
Industries, Fontana, CA, amount $0.15/pound (revenue to City)).
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-21-11 for  a contr act between the City  of Chey enne a nd Aztec
Construction Company, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Snyder Avenue Stormwater Pipeline Project
(2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $322,475.10).
(#5707)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-23-11 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Streamline
Markings, Inc.,  Billings, Montana, for the railroad crossing pavement marking upgrades for various
City streets (federal funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $88,089.00).
(#5708)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-24-11 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Great Western
Park and Play ground, Wellsvill e, Utah, f or the Da vid R. Rom ero Community  Park Play ground
Surfacing Renovation Project  (Community Facilities fees-Park Infrastructure).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $77,380.79). (#5709)
Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Capiro Ambriento,
LLC d/ b/a Ca piro A mbriento, 3 617 E . Lincolnway, Ch eyenne, Wyoming.  M r. Valdez moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Collins. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present. 
Restaurant l iquor lic ense a pplication f iled w ith the  City  Cle rk's O ffice for  Mo rris H ouse
Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Morris House Bistro, 2114 Warren Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Valdez
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon inquiry regarding percentage of stock owned in the
corporation, Dameione Cameron, Morris House Bistro, clarified he and his business partner own the
majority of stock with a few investors owning small percentages.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.
Re-appointments of Phil Griggs, James Dittman, Mary Aragon, and Ami Skeens to the Public
Transit Advisory Board.  Mr. Collins moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who
did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 25, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership for a retail
liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Cadillac Ranch Bar, Inc. d/b/a Cadillac
Ranch Bar, 3307 Nationway, Cheyenne, Wyoming. (License currently held by Cheyenne OTB, LLC
d/b/a Wyoming OTB, 3307 Nationway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.)
Announcement was made of a Public Meeting to be held July 25, 2011, at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the purpose of receiving public
comment on the submission of a Section 5307 Fe deral Grant to fund tra nsportation service s by
Cheyenne Transit for Fiscal Year 2012. 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 7:01 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Kristy B. Anderson, CMC
 Deputy City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 22, 2011
 