MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-07-25 | CLIP_ID: 236 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 236

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
July 25, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.
Absent: Dr. Rinne. Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk; Ba rb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Da n
White, City Attorney. The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Brown
and Ms. Ash, agenda items #13 and 20(a) were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by
Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash, agenda item #9 was removed
from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Collins  moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 11, 2011.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Service s and vac ated Council Chamber s.  Mr. Allen moved to  approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Dire ctor,
reviewed a voucher payable to Circle-S Aviation, LLC ($26,525.00) for aerial weed spraying services
at Belvoir Ranch and explained an annual spraying program for noxious weeds has been implemented,
particularly to control larkspur, which is poisonous to cattle.  He provided additional information on
repair/replacement costs of well (water) pumps.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council C hambers.  Following  announcement of the vote, Mr . Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Ka ysen o pened a public hear ing to r eceive comments and input for  a tra nsfer of
ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Cadillac Ranch
Bar, Inc. d/b/a Cadillac Ranch Bar, 3307 Nationway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  (License currently held by
Cheyenne OTB, LLC d/b/a Wyoming OTB, 3307 Nationway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.)  Upon inquiry,
Kevin Beers, applicant, reviewed tentative plans for the  business and stated the lice nse location for
operation will not be changing.  There being no further comments or input, Mayor Kaysen advised the
purpose of the hearing had been met and closed the hearing.  The application was referred to Finance
Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public mee ting for the purpose of receiving public comment on the
submission of a Se ction 5307 federal grant to fund tra nsportation services by Cheyenne Transit for
fiscal year 2012.  J oe Dougherty, Director, Cheyenne Transit Program, clarified this is an annua l
submission request for federal grant funding and the requested amount is $744,355.00.  Mr. Dougherty
referenced a memorandum dated July 25, 2011 that he had submitted to members of the governing body
regarding the grant request, noting la st year’s requested amount was $807, 660.00.  There  being no
further comments or input, Mayor Kaysen advised the purpose of the hearing had been met and closed
the hearing.
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and Section
17.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning classification from
CB Community Business District (Conditional) to LI Light Industrial District for Lots 2 & 3, Block 1,
Hutchins Corner, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Hutchins Drive,
south of Campstool Road).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve
on second r eading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” - - all member s of the
governing body present.
Resolution authorizing the filing of an application with the Federal Transit Administration, an
operating administration of the United States Department of Transportation, for Federal Transportation
Assistance authorized by Title 49, United Stat es Code, Section 5307 (Chey enne Transit Program).
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  M otion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5298)
[CA] Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne approves of the Albin
and Burns projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2011 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant funding.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5299)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for CFT Cheyenne Dell
Range, a replat of a portion of L ot 1, Block O ne, Cole Fire Station Addition, C heyenne, Wyoming
(located north of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Grandview Avenue).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.  (#5300)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for WYODI GS
Properties Subdivision, a replat of Lots 5, 6, & 7, Block 4, Campstool Addition, Third Filing, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Industry Court and Industry Drive).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5301)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Hospital Center,
1st Filing, a replat of Lots 1 thru 8, Block 138; Lots 1 thru 8, Block 139; Lots 1 thru 8, Block 172; Lots
1 thru 8, Block 173; Lots 1 thru 8, Block 200; vacated 16-foot alley in Blocks 138, 139, 172, 173, and
200; vacated 23rd Street between House Avenue and Evans Avenue; vacated House Avenue between
23  S treet a nd 2 4  S treet; a nd H ouse A venue b etween 24  S treet a nd 2 5  S treet, O riginal C ity,rd th th th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Warren and Evans Avenues and E. 22nd and 25th Streets).  Mr.
Collins moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.  (#5302)
[CA] Resolution approving all loan documents for the State of Wyoming Drinking Water S tate
Revolving Fund Loan #120 in the amount of $9.4 million for the Southern Water Transmission Main
Phase II Project and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and Director of the Board of Public Utilities to
execute all related loan documents.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5303)
[CA] Resolution approving a project agreement with the Wyoming Water Development Commission
for a grant in the amount of $14,029,800 for the Southern Water Transmission Main Phase II Project
and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute all related
agreements and documents.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5304) 
[CA] Resolution approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with Three
Rivers West, LLC, Lots 1-3, Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail Park, Third Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming
-- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Resolution approving the Annual Budget for Fiscal Year 2011-2012 of the Laramie County
Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Valdez).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor to sign a Memorandum of Understanding with L aramie
County to a pply for the E dward Byrne Memorial Just ice Assistance Grant P rogram -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Resolution authorizing su bmission of  a n a pplication to  the  Wy oming B usiness C ouncil,
Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program, for funding through the Downtown Development
Grant Program to provide a utility corridor to encourage development of downtown business space --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown and Dr. Rinne).
 Preliminary PUD Planned Unit Development (Zone Change) from MR-1 Medium Density
Residential-Established and P Public Districts for Blocks 138, 139, 172, 173 and 200, Original City,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between E. 22nd and E. 25th Streets, east of Warren and west of Evans
Avenues).  Bill Green, Christine Kronz, Scott Brugger, Janice Floth and Sunny Kaste spoke in favor
of the proposed PUD zone.  Co mments included support for a comprehensive cancer facility with
parking availability at one location adjacent to the hospital, and economic benefits due to the hospital’s
proposed project.  David Squires, Senior Vice-President, Cheyenne Regional Medical Center, noted that
project plans will involve expansion of services, remodeling of certain areas, new building addition, and
a parking structure, and briefly reviewed major areas that will be included in the project.  Mr. Collins
moved to acknowledge receipt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Comment followed regarding the hospital’s
downtown location adja cent to a r esidential area, and suggestion that elements involving building
heights, architectural and design plans, green space, and parking structure height, as worded in the PUD
information affiliated with the ag enda item, be  clarified prior to the zone cha nge ordinance being
introduced on the agenda.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Land Lease Ag reement and Memora ndum of L and Lease Agreement between the City  of
Cheyenne and Verizon Wireless for installation and maintenance of a cell tower  in North Cheyenne
Community Park.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5713)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Stride Learning Center to provide cooperative
transit services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5714)
Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Laramie County, and the Chey enne Downtown
Development A uthority for the pu rpose of  a dministering the  te rms a nd c onditions o f t he U. S.
Environmental P rotection A gency (EPA) B rownfields A ssessment Coalition G rant.  M att A shby,
Planning Services Director, advised a 2 week postponement of the item was requested to provide for
Laramie County Commissioners’ approval.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Mr. Valdez moved to postpone for 2 weeks (to Aug. 8, 2011), seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Mot ion to
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School District No. 1 for School
Resource Officers for the 2011 - 2012 school year -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Software Maintenance Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and New
World Systems Corporation for standard software maintenance support services -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Grant Agreement for FAA Airport Improvement Program Project  #3-56-0005-
47 between the City of Cheyenne, the County of Laramie, and the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board
for taxiway rehabilitation -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] User A greement between the Ci ty of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation De partment, a nd
Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC,  to host the 2011-2012 season at the City owned Ice and
Events Center -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion #1 to Contract #5697 betwe en the City  of Chey enne a nd STC
Construction Company for we ar course for the Westland Road Ove rlay and I mprovements Project
(2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-1-12 for  a contr act be tween the City  of Chey enne a nd Reiman
Corporation and Subsi diary, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Ame s Avenue Underpass Street Repa irs
Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Retail liquor license applications filed with the City Clerk's Office by One East Sixteenth, LLC
d/b/a TBD, 1601 Central Avenue; Cheyenne Depot Museum, Inc. d/b/a Cheyenne Depot Museum, 121
West 15th S treet; MTM, I nc. d/b/a The  Cowboy Gri ll (addre ss not y et issued) to be loc ated of f
Powderhouse Road between Spirit L ane and Gardenia Drive in The  Pointe Pl aza, and Let’er Buck
Investment Group, LLC d/b/a Steamboat’s (address not yet issued) to be located off Gardenia Drive
between Yellowstone Road a nd El Camino Real in Cathedral  Commons.  J ames Yates, managing
partner, Let’er Buck Investment G roup, LLC, d isplayed a n a rchitectural d rawing o f th e p roposed
building to be built and provided information on plans for the Wyoming-themed restaurant, stating the
project is “shovel ready”.  He stated a retail type liquor license was important to be able to provide food
and alcohol catering services, and indicated, if the license is approved, they would be willing to report
to the governing body on a quarterly basis with regard to construction progress.  Bill Murray, partner,
One East Sixteenth, LLC, clarified their plans are to develop the building into a restaurant environment
and it was not their de sire to hold the liquor license, if  approved, as a future investment.  Mr. Ya tes
expressed appr eciation of One East Six teenth’s pr oject and the  develope rs’ c ommitment to the
downtown area.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve one license to Let’er Buck Investment Group, LLC d/b/a
Steamboat’s, with the condition that construction of the establishment must begin within 12 months
from approval of the license or the license will revert to the City, and one license to One East Sixteenth,
LLC d/b/a TBD [to be determined], with the condition that a signed lease agreement with a restaurant
establishment to operate within the building must be sig ned within 12 mont hs from approval of the
license or the license will revert back to the City, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Discussion included retail
liquor licenses as economic development tools; inclusion of reasonable conditions with the motion to
approve, and factors considered by Finance Committee members in making their recommendation on
recipients of the licenses, which included support for a license for the downtown area, a Wyoming-
themed restaurant and operational utilization of the licenses in a timely manner.  Upon request, Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, re-stated the motion on the floor for clarification.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Annual Report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements made at the Airport Golf
Course as required by Lease Agreement -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made that the local Wyoming Chapter for Multiple Sclerosis Society will
be sponsoring a Calcutta to be held August 18, 2011 beginning at 6:00 p.m. at Alf’s Pub and Package
Liquor, 1 622 E ast 1 9  Str eet, C heyenne, Wy oming, in  conjunction wi th t he Mu ltiple Sc lerosisth
Society/Alf’s Pub Golf Tournament (Proceeds to benefit the local Multiple Sclerosis Society). 
 
Announcement w as ma de of  the  Ap pointment o f B elinda Kolb to t he Che yenne Hi storic
Preservation Board to be confirmed August 8, 2011.
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 8, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive comments on the proposed
sale of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, described generally as  Lot 2, Block 1, Cahill Park
Addition (located at the southeast corner of Windmill Road and Dell Range Boulevard) to Menard, Inc.
which would generate economic development benefits for the City of Cheyenne pursuant to Wyo. Stat.
§15-1-112 (b).  Estimated proposal value is $7.2 million dollars.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 8, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to gather public comment in regards
to the City of Cheyenne’s intention to make application to the Wyoming Business Council, Business
Ready Community Grant and Loan Program, for funding through the Downtown Development Grant
Program for funding assistance to provide a utility corridor to encourage development of downtown
business space.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 6:48 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 August 2, 2011