MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-08-08 | CLIP_ID: 238 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 238

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
August 8, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.
Absent: Mr. Collins. Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan
White, City Attorney. The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designa tion of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Allen, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Pierson
and Ms. Ash, agenda items #10 and 15 (e) were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by
Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support re ceived by Dr. Rinne and M r. Allen, agenda item #12 was
removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Brown  moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 25, 2011.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to radio
station KYOY FM and vacated Council Chambers. Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry , Todd Fe ezer, Assistant Dire ctor, Parks and
Recreation, provided infor mation pertaining  to a vouche r pay able to L a F amilia ($750.00) f or
advertising services for the Superday event.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all membe rs of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following  announcement of the vote, Mr . Valdez
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input on the proposed sale of
real p roperty owned by the City of Cheyenne, described generally as Lot 2, Block 1, Cahill P ark
Addition (located at the southeast corner of Windmill Road and Dell Range Boulevard) to Menard, Inc.
which would generate economic development benefits for the City of Cheyenne pursuant to Wyo. Stat.
§15-1-112 ( b). Estima ted proposal value is $7.2 million doll ars. Ma tt Ashby , Planning Ser vices
Director, reviewed time frames regarding governing body actions, public notices and the negotiation
process involving the proposed sale.  He provided information on valuation of the property; proposed
purchase price and general terms of the proposed sale, which will include a written purchase and sales
agreement and a development agreement; public infrastructure to be constructed of benefit to the City,
and other items discussed during the negotiation process.  He advised discussions have recently taken
place involving subsequent refinements to some elements affiliated with the agreements, including items
involving infra structure and naming  rig hts for a f uture a thletic fie ld, stating Mena rd is no longe r
interested in naming rights.  Mr. Ashby provided an explanation on assessment of the current valuation
of t he property since a  2006 proper ty appra isal was conduc ted, and non- comparable land sa les
circumstances affecting the availability of an updated formal appraisal, which had been requested.  He
also provided information on developer costs, such as community development fees and construction,
and potential community economic impact relative to the opening of a Menard business in the City.
Donald James Perrott Macneil questioned the proposed use for the land as he thought the government
had stipulated the land was to be used for park land, and spoke in opposition to sale of the property.
Dan White, City Attorney, advised the Veterans Administration (VA) did have a restriction on the land
when initially conveyed to the City, but in 2007 the VA provided a release of restrictions on the use and
as a result of this document the City can now make use of the property which is subject to approval by
the VA administration, noting the VA has provided approval for the intended use affiliated with the
proposed sa le to Menar d.  Fr ank Cole, C ole Shopping Cente r, expressed c oncern that the land’s
valuation has bee n estimated too low, and stated, sinc e ther e have  been c hanges in the propose d
valuation, re-advertising with current numbers should be done.  He  cited ex amples of other large
commercial property developers who have assisted with public infrastructure for the City in conjunction
with development projects, and discussed expenses to buyers vs. developers; lack of submittal of a site
plan to date, and leaving the property as a public park area.  Delmar Stone spoke about the past and
future “vision” for the parcel, which should remain public park and open space; commented on the
growing community need for open space, noting the parcel has many recreational facilities and uses
nearby; expressed concern that “vision” is being clouded by dollar signs, and urged reconsideration of
any sale of the property.  Edward Melko spoke in opposition to the proposed sale; questioned whether
other City park lands were set aside in trade for this parcel as affiliated with federal d esignations;
expressed concern with increased traffic and expansion of the are a’s use in a commercial way, and
suggested other sites he felt would be better suited for the Menard business.  Upon inquiry, Todd Feezer,
Assistant Director, Parks and Recreation, advised there were two different subjects with regard to
release of restrictions on the land, one was the restriction on use which was lifted by the VA and the
other dealt with L and and Water  Conservation (LCW) funding grants in which de signation of the
property was tra ded for other City  open spac e properties based on appra ised value.  H e provided
information on the properties involved in the trade designation under LCW provisions and commented
on possible future plans for the traded lands relative to recreational purposes.  Discussion included the
following topics: Past proposed commerc ial development (i.e. hotel, r estaurant, retail) plans f or the
parcel; time frame allowed for accepting requests for proposals relative to other potential intere sted
parties; comments in support as well as opposition to sale of the land; holding off on a sale at this time
due to depressed economic conditions and prope rty values; acquiring additional proposals; positive
location of the Menard business for east Cheyenne residents; whether a business of this type would
generate additional economic benefits to the City, and a parking variance for the proposed development,
requested by Menard, that was recently approved by the Board of Adjustment. Upon inquiry, Mr. Ashby
provided information on the parking  variance for reduced number of spa ces that was re quested by
Menard’s, and a dvised the development would be subject to the adopte d larg e sca le commer cial
development regulations which address such items as building construction elements, landscaping,
screening and articulation of the building.  U pon query, Mr. Ashby confirmed a representative from
Menard was unable to be in attendance at the meeting but will be present at the next Finance Committee
and City Council meeting, and advised naming rights to a possible future athletic field were removed
[from draft agreement provisions] pursuant to a request from Menard.  There being no further comments
or input, Mayor Kaysen advised the purpose of the hearing had been met and closed the hearing.  Mayor
Kaysen advised the agenda item (re: Resolution determining the sale of real property with Menard, Inc.)
affiliated with the public hearing had been referred to Finance Committee for review/discussion, and
the Committee meeting will be held Aug. 15, 2011 at 11:00 a.m., Room 122, Municipal Building, and
was open to the public.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to gather public comment and input in regards to the City
of Cheyenne’s intention to m ake a pplication to the Wy oming B usiness C ouncil, Business Rea dy
Community Grant and Loan Program, for funding through the Downtown Development Grant Program
for funding assistance to provide a utility corridor to encourage development of downtown business
space.  Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager, provided information on the proposed project affiliated with
the grant application, explaining the utility corridor is really a service corridor, approximately 22 ft.
wide, that will include elevators, stairwells, utility easements, conference rooms and an atrium for use
by the downtown and the public.  She noted the cor ridor will assist in encoura ging development of
adjacent properties, and the project will act as a conduit to the vision of a vibrant downtown a rea by
generating added activity and commerce, and sales tax revenue.  Ms. Schneider advised if awarded the
$1,000,000 grant it will fund half of the corridor project, noting additional funding will come from the
recently approved State Loan and Investment Board (SLIB) Consensus Block Grant funding and the
Economic Development Joint Powers Board, which will be contingent upon receiving the grant.  She
reviewed the scheduling time frame for submittal of the grant.  Tom Lyndsey spoke in favor of doing
something with the vacant 2006 down town fire site (site of the propose d project) and in support of
private developers building infrastructure in the a djacent area, hopefully a hotel with under ground
parking and a restaurant; suggested the City give the 22 ft. City-owned corridor area to a p rivate
developer as an incentive, and commented that “filling the hole” is a priority.  Ed Melko stated he was
not particularly in favor of the project, but supports the application being submitted at this time, and
questioned why a fence couldn’t be put in place to block the hole from public vision.  There being no
further comments or input, Mayor Kaysen advised the purpose of the hearing had been met and closed
the hearing. 
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and Section
17.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning classification from
CB Community Business District (Conditional) to LI Light Industrial District for Lots 2 & 3, Block 1,
Hutchins Corner, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Hutchins Drive,
south of Campstool Road).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present. (#3930)
[CA] Resolution approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with Three
Rivers West, LLC, Lots 1-3, Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail Park, Third Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5305)
Resolution approving the Annual Budget for Fiscal Year 2011-2012 of the Laramie County
Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board.  Upon inquiry, Tim Thorson, contract administrator
for the Board, provided information on the operations budget and supplemental schedule, explaining
the first year of the Board’s existence  was spent discussing priorities for funding, mostly from the state,
and within the current budget year contracts for services will become active/implemented with money
expended for projects.  He advised the capital outlay for real property is for a juvenile services center
being constructed at the County’s Archer Complex.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez
moved to adopt, s econded by Mr. P ierson.  Motion car ried. Voting  “y es” - - all member s of the
governing body present. (#5306)
[CA] Resolution a uthorizing the  Ma yor to s ign a  Me morandum o f U nderstanding wi th Laramie
County to apply  for the E dward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5307 Res.; #5710 MOU)
Resolution authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business Council, Business
Ready Community Grant and Loan Program, for funding through the Downtown Development Grant
Program to provide a utility corridor to encourage development of downtown business. Mr. Va ldez
moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.  (#5308)
[CA] Resolution determining that the sale of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming
would benef it the economic de velopment o f the City pursuant to Wy o. Stat. § 15-1-112(b) a nd
authorizing the Mayor to sign a Purchase and Sale Agreement and a Development Agreement with
Menard, Inc. for the sale of  23.87 acr es of City -owned land platted as L ot 2, Block 1, Cahill P ark
Addition (l ocated at  t he s outheast co rner o f t he i ntersection of W indmill R oad an d De ll R ange
Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming)” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown,
Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen).
[CA]  Preliminary Plat for Sundance Ridge II, a replat of Lots 1-6, Block One and Lots 1-6, Block
Two, Sundance Ridge I, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of Storey Boulevard, on either side of
Sycamore Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Laramie County, and  the Cheyenne Downtown
Development A uthority fo r t he pu rpose of  a dministering the  te rms a nd c onditions o f t he U.  S.
Environmental Protec tion Age ncy (EPA) B rownfields Assessment Coalitio n Grant.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5715) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School District No. 1 for School
Resource Officers for the 2011 - 2012 school year.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5716) 
[CA] Software Maintenance Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and New
World Systems Corporation for standard software maintenance support.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.  (#5717)
[CA] Consideration of Grant Agreement for FAA Airport Improvement Program Project  #3-56-0005-
47 between the City of Cheyenne, the County of Laramie, and the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board
for taxiway rehabilitation.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5718)
User Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Cheyenne
Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, to host the 2011-2012 season at the City owned Ice and Events
Center.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon inquiry concerning storage room
usage, Mayor Kaysen confirmed there has been no Land and Water Conservation grant funds used for
the facility that will affect the agreement.  Upon inquiry on sales and consumption areas involving
alcohol, Robin Feezer, Parks and Recreation staff, stated the consumption area will not include the lobby
or front building areas.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with
the exception of Mr. Pierson voting “no”.  (#5719)
[CA] Contract for Services between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie
County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board to provide electronic monitoring services,
intensive mentoring support, parenting education and support, and alcohol education and assessments
by the Office of Youth Alternatives -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract for Services between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie
County Communi ty J uvenile Servic es Joi nt Powers B oard f or a Wee kender Communi ty Service
Program to be conducted by the Office of Youth Alternatives -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the C ity o f C heyenne a nd L aramie C ounty, W yoming f or a  d ually-
commissioned Juv enile Com pliance an d Diversion Of ficer t o a ssist w ith a lternatives to  juv enile
detention, and improve monitoring of juvenile detention facilities -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation  for
Economic Development (LEADS) for industrial and economic development services -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion #1 to C ontract #5697 betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd STC
Construction Company for we ar course for the W estland Road Over lay and I mprovements Project
(2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $118,183.00).
(#5697)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-1-12 for  a contr act be tween the City of Chey enne a nd Reiman
Corporation and Subsidiary, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Ames Avenue Underpass Street Repairs
Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (amount not to ex ceed
$609,458.50). (#5720)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-2-12 for  a contr act be tween the  City  of Cheyenne a nd Reiman
Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the East Cheyenne Greenway Phase IV Project (1% Specific
Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-18-12 for  a contract betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Simon
Contractors, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the East Cheyenne Greenway Phase IIIb, Part 2, Union Pacific
Railroad Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Cadillac Ranch Bar, Inc.
d/b/a Cadillac Ranch Bar, 3307 Nationway, Cheyenne, Wyoming. (License currently held by Cheyenne
OTB, L LC d/b/ a Wyoming OT B, 3307 N ationway, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Appointment of Belinda Kolb to the Cheyenne Historic Preservation Board.  Mr. Brown moved
to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
 
[CA] Annual Report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements made at the Airport Golf
Course as required by Lease Agreement.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Under other business:
Mayor Kaysen noted an announcement of a public hearing was inadvertently not placed on the
meeting agenda and requested City Clerk Carol Intlekofer read the announcement into the record.  Clerk
Intlekofer read the following:  Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held August 22, 2011, at 6:00
p.m. in Ci ty Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Ave., Chey enne, Wy oming, to dete rmine whe ther
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land being
situated in portions of Sections 14 and 23, Township 13 North, Range 67 West, 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming, (generally located between Interstate 25 and Clear Creek Parkway, South of West
College Drive).
Edward Melko questioned the recent extension of the lease agreement with Post 6 baseball with
regard to an extension being approved by the Mayor vs. City Council, and whether the Mayor had the
authority to approve the extension.  City Attorney Dan White advised the lease agreement requires a
minimum of 60 days notice of termination of the lease, and expressed his opinion that under the scope
of the re solution that had pr eviously been a dopted (i.e.: a uthorizing the May or to issue a notice of
termination), that more time could be extended by the Mayor.  He indicated the parties were close to
reaching resolution of matters involved and that it was appropriate under the circumstances to extend
the termination date.  He stated a letter to Post 6 was issued by Mayor Kaysen in June, advising them
the lease would be terminated within 60 days from the date of the letter, and advised in the meantime
the City and Post 6 have continued negotiations and in a good faith effort the City has extended the lease
termination date for another 60 days.  Mayor Kaysen affirmed that Post 6 was negotiating in good faith.
Donald Ja mes Pe rrott Mac neil s poke in s upport of  re solving le ase a greement i ssues.  Com ments
followed regarding the Mayor’s decision on a 60 day extension.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 7:31  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 August 16, 2011