MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-08-22 | CLIP_ID: 240 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 240

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
August 22, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.
Absent: Mr. Collins. Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan
White, City Attorney. The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.) Mr. Brown moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 8, 2011.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Service s and vacated Council Chamber s. Mr. Allen moved to appr ove payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body  prese nt in Counc il Chambers. F ollowing a nnouncement of the vote, Mr. B rown
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a public hea ring to determine wh ether compliance of  annexation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for the property described as a parcel of land being
situated in portions of Sections 14 and 23, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P .M., Laramie County, Wyoming
(generally located between Interstate 25 and Clear Creek Parkway, South of West College Drive).  Jim
Flesher, Urban Planning office, reviewed requirements and compliance of conditions contained in Wyo.
Stat. §15-1-402, including specific information indicating compliance with Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402(a)(i)
through (vi).  Donn Edmunds expressed concerns with City fire and police manpower coverage for the
proposed area to be annexed.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing
having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Resolution determining that the sale of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming
would benef it the economic de velopment of the  City pursuant to Wy o. Stat. § 15-1-112(b) a nd
authorizing the Mayor to sign a Purchase and Sale Agreement and a Development Agreement with
Menard, Inc. for the sale of  23.87 acres of City -owned land platted as L ot 2, Block 1, Cahill Park
Addition (l ocated at  t he s outheast co rner o f t he i ntersection o f W indmill R oad an d De ll R ange
Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Frank Cole, Cole Shopping Center, spoke in opposition to the City
selling the vacant park land, noting uses in the area for recreational purposes and commenting that the
proposed purchasing offer amount was not high enough.  Barbara Stafford, Friends of Botanic Gardens
Foundation Board, referenced a document (on file with City Clerk’s office) submitted earlier in the day
to governing body members, and spoke about the assistance provided by the Foundation Board in
acquiring release of property use restrictions through the U.S. Dept. of Veterans Affairs, and in support
of utilizing funds received from the property sale to upgrade and expand the conservatory at Botanic
Gardens. Scott Nuttelman, Menar d, I nc., re quested support for  the p roposed sale a nd discussed
Menard’s desire to expand its operations to serve the Cheyenne area and the company’s development
plans and construction season timing issues.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Nuttelman provided information on
evaluation of other site location options they had researched within the community, and advised the
Windmill site provides for the ne cessary infrastructure for utilities and more  general access to the
community with room for e xpansion of other  retail businesses.  During discussion, Mr. Nuttelman
explained they did review the Swan Ranch development area but considered it more of an industrial site,
which might be viable for a potential manufacturing and distribution facility, than a commercial retail
site; reviewed the location of Menard stores in the region, and potential opportunity to expand into other
western states in the future.  In response to Mr. Nuttelman’s comments involving evaluation of other
property sites in the area, Mr. Cole advised that he was contacted by Menard’s but at the time of the
inquiry he did not have a ny property available for r etail development in the acr eage size Menar d’s
desired.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Mr.
Valdez moved to pos tpone to Sept. 12, 2011, seconde d by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Nuttelman sug gested
approving t he sale with conditions to resolve any  concerns the Council may  have, a nd advised a
postponement may  aff ect the c ompany’s time fr ame to beg in construction.  I t was noted the
recommendation to postpone made at Finance Committee was to allow time for review and clarification
of confidential information provided by the City Attorney.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney,
provided information on the  attorney-client confidential memorandum he had issued to governing body
members involving a potential property interest claim in the parcel involving the Laramie County
Commissioners.  H e explained since providing the m emorandum to Council members, the County
Commissioners have asserted a property interest claim and explained this issue needs to be resolved
prior to acting on the resolution.  Discussion included the purpose of postponement, which would allow
time to f urther r eview t he City  At torney’s me morandum a nd to p rovide tim e fo r t he Cou nty
Commissioners to meet to make a final decision on their proposed intere st in the property .  Mayor
Kaysen advised, pursuant to communication with County Commission Chair Diane Humphrey, that
the Commissioners have not made a final decision yet on their claim of interest in the property and that
it is still under review, and stated the Commissioners plan to take this up at their Sept. 6th meeting.
Mayor Kaysen recognized County Commissioner Troy Thompson in attendance at the meeting, who
confirmed the information shared by the Mayor was correct.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”.
[CA] Resolution determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist
for the property described as a parcel of land being situated in portions of Sections 14 and 23, T.13N.,
R.67W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located between Interstate 25 and Clear Creekth
Parkway, so uth of West Coll ege Dr ive) --  ref erred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr .
Collins).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the City of Cheyenne, a jurisdiction within Laramie County, Wyoming,
to participate in a Multi-jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).

[CA] Resolution designating the Director of Purchasing as agent for the City of Cheyenne for the
purpose of organizing and holding a surplus municipal property auction at a time convenient for the City
-- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant
(Chapter 3) applica tion to the St ate Loan and I nvestment Board to ac complish the West Pershing
Boulevard Sewer Main Project from Pioneer Avenue to Interstate 25 -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
 Preliminary Plat for Sundance Ridge II, a replat of Lots 1-6, Block One and Lots 1-6, Block
Two, Sundance Ridge I, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of Storey Boulevard, on either side of
Sycamore Road).  Dr. Rinne declared a conflict of interest (property owner in near vicinity) and vacated
Council Chambers.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to acknowledge receipt
with staff recommendations #1 through 3, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Comment followed on discussion
at Public Services Committee regarding connectivity and traffic flow patterns regarding potential future
development of  the surrounding  are a, and subse quent in formation that was re ceived indicating
hammerheads on each end was the best option for now.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Dr. Rinne
returned to Council Chambers.
[CA] Contract for Services between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie
County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board to provide electronic monitoring services,
intensive mentoring support, parenting education and support, and alcohol education and assessments
by the Office of Youth Alternatives.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City in the
amount of $46,563.00). (#5721)
[CA] Contract for Services between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie
County Communi ty J uvenile Servic es Joi nt Powers B oard f or a Weekender Communit y Service
Program to be conducted by the Office of Youth Alternatives.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(revenue to the City in the amount of $22,555.00). (#5722)
[CA] Agreement b etween t he C ity o f C heyenne a nd La ramie C ounty, W yoming f or a  d ually-
commissioned Juv enile Com pliance a nd Di version Of ficer t o a ssist w ith a lternatives to  juv enile
detention, and improve  monitoring of ju venile detention facilities.  Moti on (per Consent Ag enda)
carried (revenue to the City in the amount of $39,878.00). (#5723)
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Cheyenne/Laramie C ounty Corporation for
Economic Development (LEADS) for industrial and economic development services.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed of $50,000.00). (#5724)
[CA] Contract betwe en the City  of Chey enne, Cheyenne Police Department a nd the Cheyenne
Regional Airport Board for law enforcement services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and  Laramie County
School District No. 1 to provide services for general education students and students with disabilities
for the 2011 - 2012 school year -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County,
Wyoming for juvenile probation services -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and NextMedia Outdoor, Inc., for
the purchase of advertising space on Cheyenne Transit buses -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No.1 to Contrac t No. 5566, J uvenile Housing Agreement, between the City of
Cheyenne a nd Southeast Wy oming Juvenile  Services, LLC, to ex tend the ag reement term for  an
additional six months -- referred to Finance Committee
.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-2-12 for  a contr act between the City  of Chey enne a nd Reiman
Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the East Cheyenne Greenway Phase IV Project (1% Specific
Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $269,214.30).
(#5725)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-18-12 for  a contr act be tween the City  of Chey enne a nd Simon
Contractors, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the East Cheyenne Greenway Phase IIIb, Part 2, Union Pacific
Railroad Project (1% Specif ic Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x).  Motion (per Conse nt Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $240,051.00). (#5726)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-1-12 for furnishing and installing one new wireless bus lift with four
jack stands for the City of Cheyenne Transit Division -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-10-12 for furnishing and installing four steel compaction wheels on
a caterpillar at the City Landfill -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made that due to the Labor Day holiday on Monday, September 5, 2011,
regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the Municipal Building,
Room 122, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Chey enne, Wyoming, as follows: Financ e Committee will meet
Tuesday, September 6, 2011 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday,
September 7, 2011 at Noon. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 12, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of location for a
retail liquor l icense application filed w ith the Cit y Clerk's Office for Cloud 9, I nc. d/b/a Cloud 9
Liquorland, 1958 Dell Range Boulevard (Suite C) Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 6:41 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 Sept. 1, 2011