MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-09-12 | CLIP_ID: 242 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 242

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
September 12, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: COUNCIL PRESIDENT - Dr. R inne; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson (arriving at 6:08 p.m.), Mr.
Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Absent: Mr. Collins and Mayor Kaysen. Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City
Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  In the absence of Mayor Kaysen,
Council President Rinne, Acting  Mayor, chaired the meeting. [City Clerk’s note: Council President
Rinne, as Acting Mayor and meeting chair, exercised his option to vote or not vote, as entitled by state
statute, on agenda items before the governing body for action.]  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Brown moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Motion carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present with the exception of
President Rinne who did not vote.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 22, 2011.  M otion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Motion carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all membe rs of the g overning body present with the exception of
President Rinne who did not vote.
President Rinne opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a transfer of location
for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Cloud 9, Inc. d/b/a Cloud 9
Liquorland, 1958 Dell Range Boulevard (Suite C), Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Tom Kingham, owner of
Cloud 9, Inc., explained the current status of the liquor license, which has been “parked” and not in
operation, and his request to relocate the license to open a package liquor store only business  within
a vacated building area in the strip mall in the Sam’s Club south out parcel area.  There being no further
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, President Rinne closed the hearing and
referred the application to the Finance Committee.
An Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne Cit y Map of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from MR-1 Medium Density  Residential Establish ed and P Public Districts to P UD
Planned Unit Development District for Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, and Lot 1, Block 2, Hospital Center, 1st
Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between E. 22nd and E. 25th Streets, east
of Warren and we st of Evans Avenues) -- r eferred to Publi c Services Committ ee (sponsor - Mr.
Collins).
An Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Cheyenne City  Map of the Che yenne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from A-2 County Agricultural District to HI Heavy Industrial District for a portion of
Section 1, T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming,  also to be known as Lot 1, Block 1, GDCth
Subdivision (located south of I nterstate 80, west of Campstool Road) -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
An Ordinance amending Section 5.44.030(C), Contrac tor Licensing Board - Me mbership -
Term, of Chapter 5.44, Contractors, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, relating to the removal of certain City officials as ex-officio members of
the Contractor Licensing Board -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Pierson). 
An Ordinance amending Section 15.04.020(A), Building Code Board of Appeals, of Chapter
15.04, Gene ral Provisions, of Title 15, Building s and Construction,  of the Code of  the City  of
Cheyenne, Wyoming, relating to the r emoval of certain City officials as ex-officio member s of the
Building Code Board of Appeals -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Pierson). 
Resolution determining that the sale of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming
would benef it the economic development of  the City  pursuant to Wy o. Stat. § 15-1-112(b) a nd
authorizing the Mayor to sign a Purchase and Sale Agreement and a Development Agreement with
Menard, Inc. for the sale of 23.87 acres of City-owned land platted as Lot 2, Block 1, Cahill Park
Addition (l ocated at  t he s outheast co rner o f t he i ntersection o f W indmill R oad an d De ll R ange
Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming) (Postponed from 08/22/2011).  Scott Nutte lman, Menard, I nc.,
requested a two week postponement as they are still working with staff members and the County to
finalize the Development Agreement and Purchase and Sale agreement, and the pending release of
claim of prope rty interest pre viously asserted by the Co unty.  In addition, he noted that g iven the
magnitude of the proposed sale, and as there were three members of the governing body absent at the
meeting, final consideration of the resolution by the entire Council was preferable.  Reporting for
Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Ms.  Broyles moved to
postpone for two weeks (to Sept. 26, 2011), seconded by Mr. Brown. [City Clerk note: Mr. Pierson
joined the meeting.] Comments included reference to a recent City Attorney memo requesting a two
week postponement, and postponement enabling more members of the governing body to be present
to vote on the resolution.  Motion to postpone failed (due to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Ash, Mr.
Brown, Ms. Broyles and Mr. Pierson.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and President
Rinne.  Discussion on the main motion included the following topics: Valuation of the property relative
to proposed purchase amount and the City’s return on investment; proposed Menard business that would
be located off one of the busiest streets (i.e.: Dell Range Blvd.) in the state; current per square foot value
of properties being developed for industrial vs. commercial use; elements affiliated with economic
development issues, including  local g overnment’s role re lative to business competi tion; Menard’s
project value to the community; retaining land for additional park, athletic and/or open space purposes;
Menard site plan relative to the number of parking spaces and effect on Cahill Park events and sports
activities; property as a long-term City asset; concern with marketing process involving proposed sale
of the property; current economic market conditions affecting property values; community need for a
girl’s softball field; budgetary concerns involving parks and recreation facilities and maintenance issues,
and comparison issues involving economic development incentives for the “downtown hole” (fire site)
vs. the prop osed Menard’s project.  During  discussion, and in response to inquiries, Rick Parish,
Director of Parks and Recreation, reviewed the history time frame of when the property was initially
proposed to be sold; explained removal of the land use restriction by the Veterans Administration and
Land and Water Conservation Section 6(f) boundary designation changes involving the property and
other parks and recreation areas, noting the sale will assist with financial funding for enhancements,
including remodeling and refurbishing, of existing parks and recreational facilities within the City.  He
provided information on property appraisals; reviewed and discussed a list of department projects and
needs tha t could benef it from the money  rec eived from the sale  of the prope rty, and explained
infrastructure that Menard’s project would provide at the site, including a Greenway tunnel, parking lot,
sidewalk and bike path landscaped with trees, and an approach for a possible future rec center in the
vicinity as well as installation of water and sewer access to the area.  Upon further inquiry, Mr. Parish
reviewed estimated parking spaces that will be available through the Menard development that could
potentially provide ove rflow public pa rking for ne arby athletic fa cilities.  Motion t o adopt failed.
Voting “yes” -- Ms. Ash and Mr. Pier son.  Voting “ no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. B rown, Ms. Broyles, Mr.
Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  President Rinne did not vote.
Resolution determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist
for the property described as a parcel of land being situated in portions of Sections 14 and 23, T.13N.,
R.67W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located between Interstate 25 and Clear Creekth
Parkway, south of West College Drive).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Brown moved
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present with the exception of President Rinne who did not vote.  (#5309)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the City of Cheyenne, a jurisdiction within Laramie County, Wyoming,
to participate in a Multi-jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5310)
[CA] Resolution designating the Director of Purchasing as agent for the City of Cheyenne for the
purpose of organizing and holding a surplus municipal property auction at a time convenient for the
City.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5311)
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant
(Chapter 3) applica tion to the St ate Loan and I nvestment Board to accomplish the West Pershing
Boulevard Sewer Main Project from Pioneer Avenue to Interstate 25.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5312)
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of an Ene rgy Efficiency and Conserva tion Block Gr ant
application to the State Energy Office to continue energy efficient upgrades to Fire Stations Number
2 and 6 (Energy Development fund) -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms. Broyles). 
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for Country
Homes Subdivision, 2nd fil ing, a replat of Lots 7 & 8, B lock 3; Lots 2-7, Block 4; Lots 1-3 & 6- 8,
Block 5; and Lots 1, 2, 7 & 8, Block 6, and a portion of Grape Street, Country Homes Subdivision, and
a portion of Tract 5 of the Allison Draw Flood Control Project, Laramie County, Wyoming (located
north of and adjacent to Citrus Street, between Division and Pine Avenues) -- referred to P ublic
Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for JL  Ranch IV, a
replat of Lot 28, Block 3, JL Ranch, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Alex Ranch
Road, east of Taggart Drive)” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins). 
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Frontier North, 3rd
Filing, a re plat of a por tion of L ot 2, Block One, Fr ontier North, 2nd F iling, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the nor thwest corner of the  intersection of Frontier  Mall Drive a nd Prairie Ave nue) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of an applica tion to the United States Depar tment of
Treasury, for funding through the State Small Business Credit Initiative to increase access to capital in
Cheyenne, Wyoming and surrounding area -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Spiker).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the City of Cheyenne, through the City Attorney’s Office, to commence
condemnation proceedings to obtain real property located at 1900 Converse Avenue necessary for the
completion of the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project (Phase 4) (2003-2006, 2007-2010
1% Sales Tax)” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution repealing Resolution 5246; Creating a new resolution establishing golf course user
fees and categories for the Airport Golf Course and Kingham Prairie View Golf Course; and providing
for the division of re venues f rom said fe es to be de posited betwee n the Gene ral a nd Capital
Improvement Fund -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown, Mr. Pierson).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for GDC  Subdivision, portions of Section 1, T. 13N., R.66W., S ection 6,
T.13N., R.65W., Section 31, T.14N., R.65W., and Section 36, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., and a replat
of a portion of the right-of-way of HR Ranch Road, JL Ranch, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of
Interstate 80, west of Campstool Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Contract between  the City of Cheyenne, C heyenne Police D epartment and the Cheyenne
Regional Airport Board for law enforcement services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5729)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and  Laramie County
School District No. 1 to provide services for general education students and students with disabilities
for the 2011 - 2012 school year.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the  City
$168,190.00).  (#5730)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County,
Wyoming for juvenile probation services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City
$48,000.00).  (#5731)
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and NextMedia Outdoor, Inc., for
the purchase of advertising space on Cheyenne Transit buses.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5732)
[CA] Juvenile Diversion and Transitional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth
Alternatives, and the State of Wyoming, Department of Family Services, Division of Juvenile Services
-- referred to Finance Committee.  
Employment Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and
Tim Grote for Greenway construction project management services (Greenway 1% Specific Purpose
Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. Valdez advised the item was discussed under
other items for the agenda at Finance Committee and provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve in an a mount not to ex ceed $37,676.94, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Rick
Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation, requested the item be postponed for two weeks (to Sept. 26,
2011) to allow further review and clarification involving the contract.  Mr. Pierson moved to postpone
for two weeks (to Sept. 26, 2011), seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present with the exception of President Rinne who did not vote.
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Me tropolitan Planning
Organization, a nd Cla rion As sociates, L LC, f or a  L and Us e a nd Tr ansportation U pdate to
PlanCheyenne, the  Chey enne A rea Master P lan (F ederal MPO funding ) --  ref erred to Fina nce
Committee.
 
[CA] Use Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Engineering Department, and 360ne tworks
(USA) inc., for limited use of the public right-of-way for the installation of  fiber optics and setting a
fee -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No.1 to Contrac t No. 5566, J uvenile Housing Agreement, between the City  of
Cheyenne a nd Southeast Wy oming J uvenile Servic es, LLC, to ex tend the ag reement term for  an
additional six months.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5566)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5414 between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation
Division, and Clean Harbors Environmental Services, Inc. for hazardous waste disposal services at the
Cheyenne Household Hazardous Waste Facility -- referred to Finance Committee.
Consideration of Bid #R-1-12 for furnishing and installing one new wireless bus lift with four
jack stands for the City of Cheyenne Transit Division.  Upon inquiry, Joe Dougherty, Transit Director,
stated the bus lift system will provide a safer working condition for Fleet Maintenance mechanics.  He
explained that subsequent to the Finance Committee meeting, all Federal assurance documents had
been located and are signed as required.  Mr. Valdez advised a condition was included in the motion
to accept the bid at the F inance Committee, requiring all signa tures be ob tained regarding Federal
certifications of acceptance; however, since the meeting it had been advised that the documents with
required signatures are in place and the condition is no longer necessary.  Mr. Valdez moved to accept
the bid from Ace Equipment & Supply Co., Henderson, CO, in an amount not to exceed $36,250.00,
seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of President Rinne who did not vote.     
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-10-12 for furnishing and installing four steel compaction wheels on
a c aterpillar a t t he C ity Landfill.  Motion ( per C onsent A genda) c arried ( Wyoming M achinery,
Cheyenne, amount not to exceed $82,857.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-5-12 for purchasing a bulk ice control product for the Public Works
Department for use on City streets (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-3-12 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Naranjo Civil
Constructors, Inc., Greeley, CO, for the Saf e Routes to School, Arp Elementary Connector Project
(Greenway 1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-7-12 for furnishing eight new 2011-2012 ¾ ton quad cab or crew cab,
4x4 trucks, for  the City ’s Parks, Rec reation, Forestry, Street &  Alley, and 1% Concr ete Divisions
(2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-9-12 for furnishing ammunition for the Cheyenne Police Department
-- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Community Facility Fees Report for Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2011 -- referred to Finance
Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 26, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership for
a re tail liquor license applica tion filed wit h the C ity Clerk’s Of fice for Concor d Neig hborhood
Corporation d/b/a Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill and Bar, 1401 Dell Range Boulevard, Cheyenne,
Wyoming ( License curr ently held by  Wil d West Apple Ven tures Ltd., L LC d/b/a Applebee ’s
Neighborhood Grill and Bar, 1401 Dell Range Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming). 
Announcement was made that the Laramie County Republican Party will be sponsoring a
Calcutta to be held Friday, September 30, 2011 beginning at 6:00 p.m. at the Old West Museum, 4610
Carey Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the Red State Rendezvous (proceeds to
benefit Laramie County Republican Party).
There being no further business to come before the governing body, President Rinne adjourned
the meeting at 7:03 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 Sept. 23, 2011