MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-09-26 | CLIP_ID: 244 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 244

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
September 26, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR: Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr.
Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Brown
and Ms. Ash, agenda item #24(c) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  M r. Collins moved to
approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 12, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Service s, and vac ated Council Chambers.  Mr. V aldez moved to approve  payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, provided
information on the following vouchers payable to:  Hirst Applegate law firm, outside legal fe es
affiliated with a hearing scheduled before the Fire Civil Service Commission; Powers, Depot elevator
repair, and Schindler E levator Corporation, Depot elevator preventive maintenance services.  Upon
inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, advised a voucher payable to VISA involved expenses for
two employees to tour a construction and demolition recycling system in Boston, noting the processing
system is partially identical to what is proposed at the Transfer Station.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote,
Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a public hea ring to rec eive comments and input for a  transfe r of
ownership for a r etail liquor license a pplication filed with the City  Clerk’s Of fice for Concor d
Neighborhood Corporation d/b/a Applebee’ s Neighborhood Grill and B ar, 1401 D ell Range Blvd.,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Wild West Apple Ventures Ltd., LLC d/b/a Applebee’s
Neighborhood Grill and Bar, 1401 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Mylon Skala, Director of
Operations, Applebee’s Concord Neighborhood Corporation, clarified Concord purchased the business
from the current owner and they will continue operating in the same manner.  There being no further
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and
referred the application to Finance Committee.
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and Section
17.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning classification from
MR-1 M edium D ensity Re sidential E stablished a nd P Pub lic Di stricts t o PU D Pl anned U nit
Development District for Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, and Lot 1, Block 2, Hospital Center, 1st Filing, City
of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between E. 22nd and E. 25th Streets, east of Warren
and west of Evans Avenues).  Jan Nelson-Schroll spoke in opposition to the ordinance.  Comments
included concerns with incr eased traffic, ambulance access, flooding, downtown area congestion,
effects on the neighborhood, helicopter noise, and the need for additional planning and  community
involvement.  S unny Kaste spoke in favor of  the hospital expansion plans, noti ng the development
would be good for the neighborhood and stating she had no concerns with higher traffic or noise from
helicopters.  Reporting  for Pub lic Services Comm ittee, Mr. Collins moved to approve on sec ond
reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.   Mr. Collins explained that a r ecommendation to include Planning
Commission Condition #1 was included with the motion at Finance Committee, however, since that
meeting it was noticed that the Condition wording  was contained within the ordinance (requiring an
amendment).  Mr. Collins moved to amend by incorporating Planning Commission Condition #1 by
striking current language under Section I -6, bullet point #3, on pag e 6 of 10 of  the ordinanc e and
replacing with  lang uage that re ads: "When provided, surf ace storm water detention ar eas shall be
developed as public greens."  Ms. Ash seconded the motion to amend.  Comment followed on are a
drainage/flooding a lleviation a nd di version plans. M otion to a mend c arried.  Vo ting " yes" --  a ll
members of the govering body.  Discussion followed on provisions of the PUD ordinance relative to
the model that had previously been reviewed; structure height restrictions; buildings being articulated
back 10 ft. in distance, and current Capitol Heights Overlay District (zoning) restrictions.  David Land,
Davis Pa rtnership Ar chitects, De nver, CO , a dvised ther e wa s a  lot  of  dis cussion o n w hether t o
incorporate a "step back" in the PUD zoning ordinance and explained it will be addressed in the design
and is not contained within the ordinance.  He stated the cancer center is being designed as a two-story
building that cannot be extended vertically, and the parking garage is being designed so it can expand
2 additional levels, which is under the height requirement, and provided information on the "step back"
issue.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body.
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and Section
17.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning classification from
A-2 County Agricultural District to HI Heavy Industrial District for a  portion of Section 1, T.13N.,
R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming,  also to be known as Lot 1, Block 1, GDC Subdivision (locatedth
south of Interstate 80, west of Campstool Road.  Mayor Kaysen declared a conflict of interest (family
financial interest) for this agenda item as well as agenda item #23(a) (Preliminary Plat); relinquished
duties of the chair to Council President Rinne, and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Collins moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon inquiry, Jon Narva, Cheyenne Fire and Rescue
Dept., stated they are waiting for the result of an ISO assessment study which will determine whether
the area would be considered an underserved area, and noted the new fire training center was built to
accommodate use as a fire station for the area, but it is not staffed at the current time to provide fire
response services.  Comment followed regarding the potential need for additional fire response coverage
and staffing for this area as well as the Swan Ranch area and consideration of same should be addressed
at budg et time.  Upon inquiry , J im Flesche r, Planning  and De velopment, advised the  amount of
community facility fees to be assessed for the area is approximately  $450,000.00, and Rick Parish,
Parks and Recreation Director, advised at the present time there are no plans for use of the community
facility fees.  He noted a request for park land in the JL Ranch Subdivision area has been requested and
further review will be conducted when the fees have been received.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" --
all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote,
Mayor Kaysen returned to Council Chambers with Council President Rinne returning duties of the chair
to Mayor Kaysen. 
Ordinance amending Section 5.44.030(C), Contractor Licensing Board - Membership - Term,
of Chapter 5.44, Contractors, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of
Cheyenne, Wyoming, relating to the remova l of certain City officials as ex-officio membe rs of the
Contractor Licensing Board.  Mr. Collins moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.
Mr. Collins mo ved to  a mend by su bstitute, s econded b y Ms.  As h.  I t w as a dvised th e su bstitute
addresses lang uage cla rification.  Moti on to amend ca rried.  V oting " yes" -- all members of  the
governing body.  Upon inquiry, Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, advised the purpose of the
ordinance is to bring  City Code up-to-da te with curr ent state sta tute provisions.  Main motion as
amended carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body.
Ordinance amending Section 15.04.020(A), Building Code Board of Appeals, of Chapter 15.04,
General Provisions, of Title 15, Building s and Construction, of the Code of the  City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, relating to the removal of certain City officials as ex-officio members of the Building Code
Board of Appeals.  M ayor Kaysen noted, similar to the previous agenda item, the purpose of the
ordinance is to also bring City Code up-to-date with state statute provisions.  Mr. Collins moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the
governing body.
Ordinance annexing to t he City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated in
portions of Sections 14 and 23, T.13N., R.67W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally locatedth
between Interstate 25 and Clear Creek Parkway, south of West College Drive) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins). 
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of an Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant
application to the State Energy Office to continue energy efficient upgrades to Fire Stations Number
2 and 6 (Energy Development fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5313)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for Country
Homes Subdivision, 2nd fil ing, a replat of Lots 7 & 8, B lock 3; Lots 2-7, Block 4; Lots 1-3 & 6- 8,
Block 5; and Lots 1, 2, 7 & 8, Block 6, and a portion of Grape Street, Country Homes Subdivision, and
a portion of Tract 5 of the Allison Draw Flood Control Project, Laramie County, Wyoming (located
north of and a djacent to Ci trus Street, betwe en Division and Pine Avenue s).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5314)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for JL  Ranch IV, a
replat of Lot 28, Block 3, JL Ranch, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Alex Ranch
Road, east of Taggart Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5315)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Frontier North, 3rd
Filing, a re plat of a portion of L ot 2, Block O ne, Frontier North, 2nd Filing, Che yenne, Wyoming
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Frontier Mall Drive and Prairie Avenue.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5316)
[CA] Resolution authoriz ing submission of an a pplication to the United S tates Department of
Treasury, for funding through the State Small Business Credit Initiative to increase access to capital in
Cheyenne, Wyoming and surrounding area.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5317)
Resolution authorizing the City of Cheyenne, through the City Attorney’s Office, to commence
condemnation proceedings to obtain real property located at 1900 Converse Avenue necessary for the
completion of the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project (Phase 4) (2003-2006, 2007-2010
1% Sales Tax).  Alex Davison, attorney, Patton and Davison law firm, representative for the property
owner, expressed his reservations with regard to the structure of the resolution as drafted, and provided
background information involving the property, which was initially acquired to construct a Hollywood
Video business, and communication time frame between the parties involving the property acquisition
issue.  He explained since closure of the Hollywood Video store it has been difficult for the property
owner to lease/rent the property as it is not a favorable location for any new tenants at this time, noting
the proposed round-about project plans involve part of the prope rty.  He a dvised the City had been
approached with regard to c onsideration of purchasing the entire property but the City’s response
indicated it is o nly interested in a portion of the parking area.  Mr. Davison discussed  p roblems
affiliated with the removal of a portion of the parking area, which would limit the type of use for the
building due to reduced parking spaces, and commented on concerns with ingress/egress to the property;
potential zoning variance that may be required due to MUB zoning requirements; traffic patterns; lack
of sizeable access for delivery trucks, and the difficulty in assessing an appraised value of the real
property portion the City wishes to acquire for the reconstruction project.  He noted a property appraisal
has been requested and the information will be made available when received, and that negotiations are
continuing with his client and City staff.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Davison provided  information in response
to questions raised, including the following topics:  Estimated appraised value of the entire property;
potential zoning issues; square footage of the property vs. the area the City desires for the reconstruction
project; monetary amount of the City ’s offer to purcha se a por tion of the proper ty; potential future
commercial use of the building; study of the property’s parking space configuration and engineering
costs; consideration of the City purchasing the entire property, and estimated time frame in which to
receive property appraisal information.  Comments were made regarding the City’s past acquisition of
properties north of the area in c onjunction with the intersection reconstruction plans, and property
acquisition for the Norris Viaduct project; need for a realistic cost estimate and additional information
relative to mitigation for damages; reduction in parking spaces, and expenses that have been incurred
by the prope rty owner.  During  comments, Mr. Brown raised a point of orde r that discussion was
occurring by governing body members without a motion on the floor.  Mayor Kaysen confirmed that
procedurally the opportunity for discussion and comments by the public was still in order.  John Palmer
spoke in opposition to the use of eminent domain proceedings; suggested any “leg work burden” to
provide information should be the City’s responsibility and not the property owner; commented on  the
proposed round-about project and its effect on the property, and stated his belief the City should buy
the entire property.  M r. Valdez moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown. Upon inquiry regarding
existing and future property zoning compliance requirements,  Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director,
advised they have not reviewed the site with respect to c urrent zoning regulations and impacts in
conjunction with the construction of a round-about and any grandfathered/non-conforming uses, and
the issues would be researched with information provided t o the governing body prior to the next
meeting.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, reviewed provisions generally relative to Wyoming
Statutes involving condemnation, “just compensation” and the process of eminent domain, and advised
the City has to make a good faith offer before proceeding with eminent domain.  He briefly reviewed
time frames and stated the City has made a good faith offer in an attempt to acquire the property needed
for the project, and clarified the resolution authorizes moving forward with eminent domain proceedings
if negotiations are not fruitful and that adoption of the resolution does not mean the  City will file a
condemnation action, nor would it mean discussion with the p roperty owner would stop.  He stated
negotiations will continue and that the resolution is needed to meet the schedule to commence project
construction next spring.  Upon inquiry concerning the 6  Whereas clause contained in the resolution,th
Nathan Beauheim, Asst. City Engineer, provided information on past platting of the lots comprising the
property, explaining it has been combined into a single lot, and the parcels the City is attempting to
acquire.  Upon further query, he clarified the two homes purchased by the City several years ago at the
corner of Pershing and Converse were acquired knowing the intersection was going to be reconfigured,
however, it was not certain what the configuration would be at that time.  He stated when design of the
intersection commenced, the consultant was told to take full advantage of the property located in the
intersection along with the land on the northeast corner where the detention pond is located and right-of-
way that the City owns.  He advised even with the acquisition of the land related to the resolution, the
City still needs to acquire two additional pieces of property for the round-about configuration.  Mr.
White c larified if  the  re solution wa s a dopted it  wo uld a uthorize the Mayor to p roceed w ith
condemnation, if necessary, to ensure the property can be acquired to meet the construction schedule,
and confirmed that no further condemnation legislation would come before the governing body.  Upon
inquiry, Mr. Beauheim stated a single lane (vs. a double lane) round-about would not have adequate
capacity to handle the current, nor future, traffic level in the area; provided information on the City’s
monetary offe r to ac quire the la nd, and provide d information on prop erty owner notification
requirements and desired project construction time frame.  Further comments followed on possibility
of the City acquiring the entire property, not just the area required for the reconstruction project and
assessed value of the pr operty.  Mr. Davison a dvised property value information will hopefully  be
received within the next 1 to 1½  months.  Mr. Pierson moved to postpone action on the resolution for
45 days (to Nov. 14, 2011), seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Beauheim explained time frame concerns
if action is postponed, including construction scheduling for the round-about project as well as other
scheduled work in the area.  Mr. Davison spoke in favor of the motion to postpone, which will allow
time for further discussion and to  receive the property appraisal.  Discussion included the propose d
construction t ime fra me; previous neg otiations between the  City , WYDOT and prope rty owner ;
diminished parking spaces that may affect the property owner’s ability to lease the property to future
tenants; possible purchase of the e ntire property by the City and concerns with a pote ntial eminent
domain/condemnation a ction.  D uring d iscussion M r. B eauheim p rovided in formation o n the
construction season schedule; estimated $7 mill ion dollars project cost; status of the de sign for the
project ( approximately 99 % complete), a nd e stimated c ontractor bidd ing tim e frame.  M r. Whit e
reviewed state law relative to eminent domain; discussed elements involved in “just compensation”,
and advised passage of the resolution does not end property acquisition negotiations.  M r. Pierson
withdrew his motion to postpone for 45 days with concurrence by Ms. Broyles as second to the motion.
Upon inquiry, Mr. Ashby advised an analysis of zoning and site requirements could be conducted with
regard to potential property use and any variance request procedures. Discussion continued on the City’s
proposed compensation offer; need for property appraisal information, possible zoning variances related
to future use of the property not affiliated with the area the City wishes to acquire, and support for and
against the proposed r esolution.  In response to query concerning when a property appraisal for the
entire property might be received, Mr. Davison advised an appraisal could probably be acquired in less
than 30 days, but an appra isal for just the portion the City  wants is more diff icult due to unknown
variances that may be needed that would af fect the value.  Ms. B royles moved to postpone for two
weeks (to Oct. 10, 2011), seconded by Ms. Ash.  Comments followed both for and against the motion
to postpone.  Upon inquiry regarding project cost and construction schedule, Mr. Beauheim provided
information on estimated project costs, work involving the Board of Public Utilities, and the West
Pershing construction schedule.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles, Mr.
Collins and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker
and Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Beauheim verified there is $7 million dollars in their budget for the
project.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by striking the 6  Whereas clause in the resolution, seconded byth
Mr. Collins.  M r. Beauheim explained state statute requires the detail included in the pr operty legal
description.  Mr. White stated his concern, from a legal standpoint, if the clause were removed.  Dr.
Rinne withdrew his motion to amend with concurrence by Mr. Collins as second to the motion.  Upon
further inquiry, Mr. White reviewed the purpose of an eminent domain action, advising condemnation
proceedings can only involve land necessary for the project, and stated adoption of the resolution does
not preclude continuing negotiations with the property owner.  Main motion to adopt the resolution
failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins and Dr. Rinne.  Voting “no”-- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Ms.
Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:45 p.m.
[CA] Resolution repealing Resolution 5246; Creating a new resolution establishing golf course user
fees and categories for the Airport Golf Course and Kingham Prairie View Golf Course; and providing
for the division of re venues f rom said fe es to be de posited betwee n the Gene ral a nd Capital
Improvement Fund.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5318)
[CA] Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2012 budget of the City of Cheyenne according to
the provisions of W.S. 16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a Wyoming Cultural Trust Fund
Grant Agreement for restoration of the cemetery vault at L akeview Cemetery -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez). 
[CA] Resolution authorizing the construction of certain infrastructure improvements at Powers Field,
and supporting future efforts to obtain grant funding, private donations, and other public funding to
construct f uture infr astructure improveme nts at the Powers F ield Complex  -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Pierson). 
Preliminary Plat for GDC  Subdivision, portions of Section 1, T.13N., R.66W., S ection 6,
T.13N., R.65W., Section 31, T.14N., R.65W., and Section 36, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., and a replat
of a portion of the right-of-way of HR Ranch Road, JL Ranch, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of
Interstate 80, west of Campstool Road).  Mayor Kaysen declared a conflict of interest (family financial
interest); relinquished duties of the chair to Council President Rinne, and vacated Council Chambers.
 Mr. Collins moved to acknowledge receipt with staff recommendation #1, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon
inquiry, Jim Flescher, Planning Office, verified there was only  one staff  condition rec ommended.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mayor Kaysen returned to Council Chambers with Council
President Rinne returning duties of the chair to Mayor Kaysen.
[CA] Juvenile Diversion and Transitional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth
Alternatives, and the State of Wyoming, Department of Family Services, Division of Juvenile Services.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5734)
Employment Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and
Tim Grote for Greenway construction project management services (Greenway 1% Specific Purpose
Sales & Use Tax) (postponed from Sept. 12, 2011).  Mr. Valdez moved to approve in an amount not
to exceed $37,676.94, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Valdez moved to amend by substitute, seconded
by Ms. Broyles.  City Attorney Dan White advised the substitute changes the dates of the contract due
to the previous postponement action and clarifies salary and benefit terms.  Motion to amend carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried. Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body. (#5735)
Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Me tropolitan Planning
Organization, a nd Cla rion As sociates, L LC, f or a  L and Us e a nd Tr ansportation Update to
PlanCheyenne, the Cheyenne Area Master Plan (Federal MPO funding).  Mr. Valdez moved to approve
in an amount not to exceed $304,692.00,  seconded by Mr. B rown.  Comments followed re garding
annexation topics included in the agreement.  Upon inquiry, John Knepper, Asst. City Attorney, advised
the document is the work pla n for the c onsultants who will develop the update, a nd provided
information on wording that had been removed under the bullet points in Section 3.1., Urbanization
Strategy, prior to finalization of the agreement relative to annexation growth agreements, noting it had
been decided the City would not adopt annexation standards other than what is in state law.  Discussion
included City/County continuing discussions and dialogue on annexation issues.  Mr. Collins moved
to amend the bullet points under Section 3.1., Urbanization Strategy, to incorporate a bullet point to read
as follows: “Explore city and county annexation growth agreements.” Mr. Pierson seconded the motion.
Upon inquiry, Mr. Knepper advised the goal was to have the city and county adopt identical versions
of the agreement and that he had no objection to the proposed amendment language.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5736)
 
[CA] Use Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Engineering Department, and 360net works
(USA) inc., for limited use of the public right-of-way for the installation of  fiber optics and setting a
fee.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5737)
[CA] Amendment Number Four (City Clerk note: Clerical correction - Amendment Number Five, not
Number F our) to the Cooper ative Ag reement betwee n the Cit y of Chey enne a nd the Wy oming
Department of Tra nsportation f or the  tr ansfer o f WY DOT’s F ederal A id f unding fr om t he Wes t
Pershing Boulevard Project fund to the Ea st Pershing Boulevard Project fund -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5414 between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation
Division, and Clean Harbors Environmental Services, Inc. for hazardous waste disposal services at the
Cheyenne Household Hazardous Waste Facility.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5414)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-5-12 for purchasing a bulk ice control product for the Public Works
Department for use on City streets (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(accept bid from Desert Mountain Corporation, Riverton, in an amount not to exceed $337,140.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-3-12 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Naranjo Civil
Constructors, Inc., Greeley, CO, for the Safe Routes to School, Arp Elementary Connector Project
(Greenway 1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid
from Naranjo Civil Construction, Inc., Greeley, CO, in an amount not to exceed $377,308.50). (#5738)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-7-12 for furnishing eight new 2011-2012 ¾ ton quad cab or crew cab,
4x4 trucks, for  the City ’s Parks, Rec reation, Forestry, Street &  Alley, and 1% Concr ete Divisions
(2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (accept bid from
Halladay Motors, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $255,038.95).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-9-12 for furnishing ammunition for the Cheyenne Police Department.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bids from BVAC, Inc., Stevensville, MT, in an amount
not to ex ceed $7,988.40; Ultramax A mmunition, Rapid City , SD, in an amount not to ex ceed
$37,300.00; L awmen’s & Shooters Supply  I nc., Ve ro B each, FL , in an amount not to exceed
$5,280.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-11-12 for the surplus sale of one complete Laser Tag System at the
City of Cheyenne, Parks & Recreation Department, City-owned Ice and Events Center -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-5-12 for furnishing one new 2011-2012 15 yd. hook-lift truck with a
tarping system for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management fund) -- referred to  Fi nance
Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-6-12 for furnishing one new 2011-2012 patch truck for the Street &
Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-8-12  for furnishing one new 2011-2012 articulating overcenter aerial
device for the Forestry Division (2011-2014 1% S ales Tax and General fund) -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA] Transfer of location for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for
Cloud 9, Inc. d/b/a Cloud 9 Liquorland, 1958 Dell Range Boulevard (Suite C), Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Community Facility Fees Report for Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2011. Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held October 10, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance of
annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land being situated at 5618
Townsend Place and described as the north 170 feet of Tract 6, Briney Tracts, Laramie C ounty,
Wyoming (generally located at the southwest corner of Townsend Place and east Carlson Street). 
 
Under Other Business:
Tom Mason provided clarifying information on the purpose of the City’s past purchase of two
residential properties off Pershing in conjunction with the future Pershing/19th Str eet/Converse
construction project.
John Palmer expressed concerns with the public participation discussion procedure at meetings
and suggested consideration to have City Council members speak first, then the public.
Ms. Broyles and Mr . Brown commented on pr operty title issues surrounding the  resolution
involving the sale of real property to Menard, Inc. (Re: Motion to adopt failed at the Sept. 12, 2011 City
Council meeting) and their reasons why neither would be making a motion to reconsider the resolution
at the current meeting.  It was noted that staff needs to continue with efforts to resolve the title issue.
Graffiti clean-up on the Norris Viaduct was requested by Mr. Valdez.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 9:16 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 11, 2011