MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-10-10 | CLIP_ID: 246 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 246

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
October 10, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR: Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Va ldez.  Absent: Mr.
Brown and Mr. Pierson.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan
White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Allen, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Collins
and Ms. Ash, agenda item #23(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Valdez,
and pursuant to support received by Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash, agenda item #22(d) was removed from
the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Valdez  moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 26, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to Radio
Station KYOY, and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon inquiry, information was provided regarding a vouche r
payable to TDSI - The Design Studio, Inc. (services for design work for the proposed utility corridor
for in-fill development in the downtown ar ea.)  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council C hambers.  Following  announcement of the vote, Mr. Va ldez
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input to determine whether
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land being
situated at 5618 Townsend Place and described as the north 170 feet of Tract 6, Briney Tracts, Laramie
County, Wyoming (generally located at the southwe st corner of Townse nd Place a nd east Car lson
Street).  Jim Flesher, Planning Services Dept., reviewed requirements and compliance of conditions
contained in Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402, including specific information indicating compliance with Wyo.
Stat. §15-1-402(a)(i) through (vi).  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing
having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and Section
17.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning classification from
MR-1 Me dium D ensity Re sidential E stablished a nd P Pub lic Di stricts t o PU D Pl anned U nit
Development District for Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, and Lot 1, Block 2, Hospital Center, 1st Filing, City
of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between E. 22nd and E. 25th Streets, east of Warren
and west of Evans Avenues).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of
the governing body present. (#3931)
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and Section
17.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the zoning classification from
A-2 County Agricultural District to HI Heavy Industrial District for a  portion of Section 1, T.13N.,
R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming,  also to be known as Lot 1, Block 1, GDC Subdivision (locatedth
south of Interstate 80, west of Campstool Road.  Mayor Kaysen declared a conflict of interest (family
financial interest); relinquished duties of the chair to Council President Rinne, and vacated Council
Chambers.  Edith Cook expressed concerns with the location of the new gas power plant and questioned
whether alternative locations had been reviewed.  Upon inquiry, Jason Hartman, Black Hills Corp.,
advised no other sites were proposed at this time.  Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon inquiry regarding concern with fire response coverage for the area, Mr.
Hartman reported they are just beginning the conceptual design and would be willing to discuss the
issue with the City.  Ms. Cook's statements were referenced during comments encouraging members
of the public to speak on items of concern to them at Council meetings.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" --
all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote,
Mayor Kaysen returned to Council Chambers with Council President Rinne returning duties of the chair
to Mayor Kaysen. (#3932)
Ordinance amending Sections 5.44.010, 5.44.020, 5.44.030, 5.44.040, 5.44.050 of Chapter 5.44,
Contractors, of Title 5, Business L icenses and Regulations, of the Code of the  City of Chey enne,
Wyoming.  Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion
carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body present. (#3933)
Ordinance amending Section 15.04.020(A), Building Code Board of Appeals, of Chapter 15.04,
General Provisions, of Title 15, Building s and Construction, of the Code of  the City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, relating to the removal of certain City officials as ex-officio members of the Building Code
Board of Appeals.  Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body present. (#3934)
Ordinance annexing to t he City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated in
portions of Sections 14 and 23, T.13N., R.67W., 6 P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally locatedth
between Interstate 25 and Clear Creek Parkway, south of West College Drive).  James Perrott Macneil
spoke in opposition to all new ordinances involving  regulations, and expressed personal concerns with
the proposed annexation and past annexation actions in the area.  Ms. Ash moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry concerning whether there have been any discussions
with the developer regarding fire r esponse coverage to the ar ea, Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for the
applicant, advised there have been some discussions but nothing specific at this time.  Comment was
made regarding communication if assistance by developers for under-served fire coverage areas were
to become available in affiliation with preparation of the next budget.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" --
all members of the governing body present. 
Ordinance amending certain Chapters and Sections of Title 17, Zoning, of the Cheyenne City
Code by Repealing and Re-enacting Section 17.80.080, Signs, of Chapter 17.80, P Public District --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2012 budget of the City of Cheyenne according to
the provisions of W.S. 16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez moved
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Mr. Valdez moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Upon inquiry, Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, explained the proposed substitute includes adjustments to the
Board of Public Utilities (BOPU) areas, and also adjustments to correct certain expenditures that were
paid from the FY2012 budget that should have been reflected as being paid from the FY2011 budget,
which affected som e carry-over amounts.  Upon inquiry  concerning the cur rent status of r evenue
projections, Randy Hays, BOPU, stated that anticipated revenues are  approximately $400,000.00 below
budget for the  water fund and appr oximately $100,000.00 below budg et for the  sewer fund.  He
explained they monitor the revenue monthly and if projections are less than anticipated they may have
to delay some scheduled projects, but that no specific projects have been identified to date.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended
carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body present. (#5319) 
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a Wyoming Cultural Trust Fund
Grant Agreement for restoration of the cemetery vault at Lakeview Cemetery.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5320) 
[CA] Resolution authorizing the construction of certain infrastructure improvements at Powers Field,
and supporting future efforts to obtain grant funding, private donations, and other public funding to
construct future infrastruc ture improveme nts at the Powers F ield Complex .  Motin (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5321) 
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle Ridge, Third
Filing, a replat of Lots 2-5, Block 2, Saddle Ridge Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
northeast corner at the curve of Gunsmoke Road and Countryside Avenue, east of Saddle Ridge Trail)
– referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins). 
[CA] Resolution determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist
for the property described as a parcel of land being situated at 5618 Townsend Place and described as
the north 170 fe et of Tr act 6, B riney Tracts, Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located a t the
southwest corner of Townsend Place and east Carlson Street) – referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA]       County Preliminary Plat for Swan Ranch Rail Park, 5th Filing, portions of Sections 10, 11, 14,
15, 16, 21, 22, 23, 27, and 28, all in T .13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Laramie County,Wyoming (located
west of I-25, between Otto Road and Hig h Plains int erchange) - - re ferred to Public Service s
Committee.
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and United
Way of Laramie County, to create a Human Services Advisory Council to coordinate and refine Human
Services funding and delivery systems (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreements between the City  of Chey enne and the following  community Human Services
Agencies: Cheyenne Housing Authority and Peak Wellness Center, Inc., Alcohol Receiving Center --
referred to Finance Committee. (City Clerk clerical correction note: Agreements do not involve 2011-
2014 1% Sales Tax funds as indicated on agenda.)
   
[CA] Agreements between the City of Chey enne and the following  community Human Servic es
Agencies: American Red Cross; Boys and Girls Club of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Inc.; CASA of Laramie
County; Cheyenne Health and Wellness Center (Dental Access, Unified Human Service Eligibility and
Cheyenne Area Centralized Pharmacy); Climb Wyoming; Comea, Inc.; Connections Corner; Family
Promise; Green Path; Meals on Wheels of Cheyenne, Inc.; Needs, Inc.; Peak Wellness Center, Inc.;
Safe Harbor, A Children’s Justice Center; Safehouse Services, Inc.; Special Friends of Cheyenne;
Southeast Wyoming Foster Grandparent Program (Helping Youth and Helping Community); Southern
Wyoming Retired and Senior Volunteer Program; Wyoming 2-1-1, Inc.; Wyoming Family Home
Ownership and Wy oming Senior Cit izens, Inc. (2011-2014 1% Sales Ta x) -- referred to Fina nce
Committee. 
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Academy Sports Turf, LLC, Englewood, CO,
for infield renovations at Pioneer Park base ball field (State L oan and I nvestment Board funds) - -
referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. Valdez advised the item was discussed under other items for the
agenda at the Finance Committee and provisions of Title 2, City  Code, had be en met.  Mr. Va ldez
moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $229,500.00, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5740)
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Downtown Development
Authority for parking spaces in the downtown parking garage -- referred to Finance Committee. 
   
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the State of Wyoming, Department
of Environmental Quality, to purchase a 2010 EPA emissions compliant landfill grader for the City of
Cheyenne landfill (Solid Waste Management fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
Amendment No. Five to the Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the transfer of WYDOT’s Federal Aid funding from the
West Pershing Boulevard Project fund to the East Pershing Boulevard Project fund.  Mayor Kaysen
announced it was his understanding that staff has requested the item be withdrawn from the agenda.
Upon inquiry, Doug Vetter, City Engineer, advised the request to withdraw the item is to correct some
clerical deficiencies and that staff is working with WYDOT concerning some updates.  There being
no objection raised by City Council members, Mayor Kaysen announced the item was being withdrawn
from the agenda.
[CA] Amendment No. 4 to Contract No. 4563 between the City of Cheyenne and William A. Gross,
Managing Partner, Wyoming Cattle Co., LLC, for grazing lease on the Belvoir Ranch -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-11-12 for the surplus sale of one complete Laser Tag System at the
City of Cheyenne, Parks & Recreation Department, City-owned Ice and Events Center.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from Jan Bloom, Cheyenne, revenue to the City $250.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-5-12 for furnishing one new 2011-2012 15 yd. hook-lift truck with a
tarping system for the Sanitation Division (Sol id Waste Management fund).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (accept bid from Peterbilt of Wyoming, amount not to exceed $111,227.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-6-12 for furnishing one new 2011-2012 patch truck for the Street &
Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from
Peterbilt of Wyoming, amount not to exceed $200,875.00).
Consideration of Bid #R-8-12  for furnishing one new 2011-2012 articulating overcenter aerial
device for the Forestry Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax and General fund).  Todd Feezer, Asst.
Parks and Recreation Director, advised this will be a lease/purchase option with Peterbilt of Wyoming
and requested a 2 wee k postponement to work throug h some conc erns regarding language in the
lease/purchase document.  Mr. Valdez moved to ac cept the bid f rom Peterbilt of Wy oming for a
lease/purchase option in an amount not to exceed $190,546.56, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Mr. Valdez
moved to postpone for two weeks (to Oct. 24, 2011), seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion to postpone
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-2-12 for the sale of surplus property described as All of Lots 9, 10 and
11, Block 666, South Cheyenne Addition, located within Section 5, T.13N.  R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming (a/k/a 515 Morrie Avenue) -- referred to Finance Committee.  (City Clerk clerical
note: Correct legal description is “ ... described as the south 66 ft. of L ots 9, 10 and 11, Block 666,
South Cheyenne Addition ...”)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-3-12 for the sale of surplus property described as All of Lots 19 and
20, Block 665, South C heyenne Addition, located w ithin S ection  5, T.13N.  R.66W., 6th P.M .,
Laramie County, Wyoming (a/k/a 916 E. 5th Street) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-4-12 for the sale of surplus property described as All of Lots 21 and
22, Block 665, South C heyenne Addition, locat ed within Section  5, T.13N.  R.66W., 6t h P.M.,
Laramie County, Wyoming  (a/k/a 922 E. 5th Street) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office
for Concord Neighborhood Corporation d/b/a Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill and Bar, 1401 Dell
Range Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Wild West Apple Ventures Ltd., LLC
d/b/a Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill and Bar, 1401 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Mr.
Valdez moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present.
 
Under other business:
James Perrott Macneil commented in opposition to the Cit y’s actions involving annexation,
development and/or activities involving the Belvoir Ranch and other properties he alleged that he owns.
Ms. Broyles stated that at the Septe mber 26  City Council meeting, the motion to adopt theth
resolution involving condemnation proceedings to obtain property located at 1900 Converse Ave. for
the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project failed and, as she had voted on the prevailing side,
moved to rec onsider the vote on the  res olution, seconded by  Mr. Collins.  Upon request, Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, read the resolution entitlement as follows:  Resolution authorizing the City of
Cheyenne, through the City Attorney’s Office, to commence condemnation proceedings to obtain real
property located at 1900 Converse Avenue necessary for the completion of the East Pershing Boulevard
Reconstruction Project (Phase 4) (2003-2006, 2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Ms. Broyles explained that
subsequent to the September 26   meeting, additional information affiliated with the resolution hadth
been received, and based upon this updated information she was requesting support for the motion to
reconsider to allow for further discussion.  John Patton, Patton and Davison law firm, representing the
owner of the private property involved in the proposed resolution, advised that attorney Alex Davison,
who has been involved in this matter with the City on behalf of the property owner, was unable to be
in attendance and that he was instead present to represent their client.  Mr. Patton, noting they were not
opposed to the round-about project itself, spoke in opposition to the motion to reconsider and expressed
concerns that approval of the resolution would result in a “fixed course” with only one option left; that
being the taking of the sliver of land the City wishes to acquire without addressing the resulting impact
effects i nvolving the  re maining pr operty a rea the  City do es n ot w ish to a cquire.  H is c omments
included concerns regarding the potential limited use of the re maining property due to zoning and
development requirements; access, reduced parking and ground contamination issues, and inability of
the property owner to rent/lease the property at the current time.  He indicated it was their desire to
resolve the matter without the use of the resolution, which may result in litigation.  Upon inquiry
regarding whether the City could move forward with negotiations if the resolution were passed, Dan
White, City Attorney, stated that his basic understanding of eminent domain law is that if the resolution
was passed the City would have the right to file a complaint to take 10,000 sq. ft. of property (for the
reconstruction project) and could move for a right of entry hearing, which could enable the City to take
possession of the property and begin construction before final resolution of the amount that the City
would owe the property owner.  Mr. White added that, in his view, passage of the resolution would not
preclude City  staff f rom continuing  neg otiations with t he attorne ys and prope rty owner , noting
discussions could potentially involve the full range of issues that may need to be discussed to,
hopefully, arrive at some agreement.  Mr. Patton responded that they wish to seek the City Council’s
perspective, noting that City staff’s position would probably not change.  Comment followed on land
contamination and potential ADA issues involving  the prope rty the City  does not requir e for the
project.  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne
and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Ms. Broyles moved to adopt
the resolution, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mr. Patton reiterated, referencing his previous comments, his
opposition to the resolution.  James Perrott Macneil spoke against the eminent domain proceedings and
stated, in his opinion, the City should buy the property from Mr. Cole and tear down the building.
Mayor Kaysen clarified that the pr operty involved in the resolution was not owne d by Mr. Cole.
Comment of concern was expressed regarding reconsideration of the resolution without the public’s
awareness, and allowing Mr. Davison the opportunity to be present prior to taking a vote.  Mr. Spiker
moved to postpone for two weeks (to Oct. 24, 2011), seconded by Mr. Allen.  Comments in support
of postponement followed.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.  Mayor Kaysen announced the item would be reviewed at the next Finance Committee
meeting on Oct. 17, 2011.
Ms. Ash commented on federal ARRA (American Recovery and Reinvestment Act) funding
and inquired whether, due to the federal Tydings amendment, any previous ARRA funds that may have
been received by WYDOT could  be used f or the Pershing  projects.  Doug  Vetter, City Engineer,
advised he was not aware of any additional WYDOT funding that may be available under the ARRA.
He explained the two projects (East and West Pershing projects) involve STP (Surface Transportation
Program) urban funding and stated his belief that the STP amount to be received is a fixed amount at
this point.  Mayor Kaysen advised staff will follow-up with WYDOT to inquire whether any ARRA
federal funding might be available.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 7:00 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 18, 2011