MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-10-24 | CLIP_ID: 248 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 248

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
October 24, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR: Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr.
Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Pierson
and Ms. Ash, agenda item #19(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Ms. Ash,
and pursuant to support received by Mr. Collins and Dr. Rinne, agenda item #18(a) was removed from
the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Collins  moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on October  10, 2011.  Mo tion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services, and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valde z  moved to approve pa yment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  U pon inquiry, Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation
Director, provided information regarding a voucher payable to AVI Engineering for design of a sewer
system at Prairie View Golf Course.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to
Council Chambers.
Ordinance annexing to the  City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated in
portions of Sections 14 and 23, T.13N., R.67W., 6 P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally locatedth
between Interstate 25 and Clear Creek Parkway, south of West College Drive).  Reporting for Public
Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body. (#3935)
Ordinance amending certain Chapters and Sections of Title 17, Zoning, of the Cheyenne City
Code by Repealing and Re-enacting Section 17.80.080, Signs, of Chapter 17.80, P Public District.  Mr.
Collins moved to approve  on second  reading, seconded by Ms. Broy les.  Discussion followed on
language in Section 17.80.080 B. 5. b., indicating the maximum number of times (3) a message on the
electronic message center can change within a 24-hour period and whether this would be adequate
relative to a proposed new electronic bill board for the Civic Center.  Mr. Collins moved to amend by
replacing the lang uage in Section 17.80.080 B . 5. b. that states “Me ssage displays shall change a
maximum of 3 times per 24-hour period” to instead read “Message displays shall change a minimum
of every 8 seconds,” seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Comments followed on other limitations contained in
subsection 5., and potenti al requests in the future f or a similar messa ge display timing cha nge for
commercially zon ed area s.  Upon inquiry , Matt Ashby , Planning Ser vices Dire ctor, provide d
information on the timing of digital message changes relative to a concern involving driver distraction,
and confirmed the proposed ordinance only applies to those districts zoned as P - Public. Discussion
included the timing of display message changes; potential future effect of the amendment involving
commercially zoned districts; new e lectronic sign f or the Civic Center, a nd conce rn with driver
distraction if multiple signs are located in the same vicinity.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of  the g overning body with the exception of Mr. Allen a nd Dr. Rinne voting  “no”.
Comments followed regarding a concern with setting a precedent pursuant to the amended language and
potential future similar requests for commercial districts, and required distances (feet) from the right-of-
way (ROW) for signs as listed in Table 1. contained in the proposed ordinance.  Dr. Rinne moved to
amend Table 1. to delete the two rows in the table labeled as 5 or less (feet) and 5-10 (feet) from the
right-of-way, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Discussion followed regarding distance of signs from the ROW
and location of the sign that’s proposed for the Civic Center.  Upon inquiry regarding ROW distance
of the Civic Center sign, Dru Rohla, Civic Center Director, estimated the current Civic Center marquee,
which is where the new sign will be located,  is proba bly approximately 10' or more away from the
ROW, and Mr. Ashby provided information on how ROW distance is typically measured and that they
would measure the ROW distance for the Civic Center sig n prior to final re ading of the ordina nce.
Discussion continued on effect of the previously approved amendment, further review for clarification
of the intent of the proposed amendment, and whether there were any known signs within the P Public
district that may conflict with the proposed amendment involving ROW distance.  Motion to amend
failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “yes”.
Main motion as ame nded ca rried.  V oting “ yes” - - all member s of the g overning body with the
exception of Mr. Allen and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle Ridge, Third
Filing, a replat of Lots 2-5, Block 2, Saddle Ridge Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
northeast corner at the curve of Gunsmoke Road and Countryside Avenue, east of Saddle Ridge Trail).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5322) 
Resolution determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist
for the property described as a parcel of land being situated at 5618 Townsend Place and described as
the north 170 fe et of Tr act 6, B riney Tracts, Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located a t the
southwest corner of Townsend Place and east Carlson Street.  Mr. Collins moved to adopt, seconded
by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5323)
Resolution authorizing the City of Cheyenne, through the City Attorney’s Office, to commence
condemnation proceedings to obtain real property located at 1900 Converse Avenue necessary for the
completion of the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project (Phase 4) (2003-2006, 2007-2010
1% Sales Tax).(Postponed from Oct. 10, 2011).  Nathan Beauheim, Assistant City Engineer, advised
a meeting had been held with the attorney representing the property owner discussion included property
appraisals, c ontamination o n th e pr operty a nd DE Q’s in volvement, a nd the  c oncept o f poss ible
consideration of a re-arrangement of the intersection design.  He requested consideration that the
resolution be postponed to Nov. 28, 2011.  Car olyn Dennis ex pressed her concerns with the use of
eminent domain for this type of purpose and suggested the City consider negotiations to purchase the
entire property and waiting to purchase, if necessary, until funding is available and then proceeding with
the intersection project.  Alex Davison, attorney representing the owners of the property, advised they
have had the opportunity to meet with City officials to discuss issues and that some progress has been
made, and spoke in favor  of a postponeme nt.  He commente d on the i ncentive on the  part of the
property ow ner t o n egotiate in g ood f aith to r esolve the  ma tter, re viewed le tters se nt t o th e City
involving neg otiations to t ry to resolve issues a nd stimul ate discussions.  He provided update d
information on the property appraisal they had received and contamination and DEQ involvement,
including the remediation program, and stated they have engaged the services of a round-about expert
to provide possible intersec tion design options.  During  discussion and upon inquiry , Mr. Davison
provided information on the proper ty appraisal relative to g round contamination and remediation
efforts; monitoring of underground wells and possible re-location of same; DEQ’s possible remediation
time frame, and status of current participation in DEQ’s remediation p rogram and affiliated fees.
Comment followed regarding staff follow-up with DEQ with regard to remediation time frames and
consequences if contaminated soils and wells are disturbed during the reconstruction project.  Reporting
for F inance Committee, Mr. Valdez stated ther e wa s no rec ommendation on the item from the
Committee.  M r. Collins moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Up on query, Mr. Beauheim
clarified his previous request was to postpone the item to the Nov. 28, 2011 City Council meeting, and
reviewed construction season effect (possible 2 season instead of 1 season project) if the item were
postponed.  Mayor Kaysen explained if the resolution was postponed to the Nov. 28  meeting, it wouldth
then be referred to the Dec. 5  Finance Committee meeting, returning to City Council for considerationth
at its Dec. 12  meeting.  Mr. Valdez moved to postpone to Nov. 28, 2011, seconded by Ms. Broyles.th
Mr. Davison commented in favor of the motion to postpone.  Discussion followed on the purpose of
the resolution and whether the reason(s) to postpone was application to the intent of the resolution, and
postponement allowing time for fur ther negotiation discussions t o, hopefully, avoid conde mnation
action.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins and Mr. Spiker.
[CA] Resolution approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with Swan
Ranch Properties, LLC, Lot 4, Block 1, Swan Ranch Rail Park, 3  Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming --rd
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez). 
[CA] Resolution approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with TMH
Wyoming P roperties, L LC, L ot 3 , B lock 1 , S wan R anch Rail Park, 1  F iling, L aramie C ounty,st
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).  
[CA] Resolution approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with Knife
River Corporation - Northwest, Lot 2,  Block 1, Swan Ranch Rail Park 1  Filing, Laramie County,st
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez). 
[CA] Resolution approving outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with Cheyenne
LEADS, Lot 1, Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail Park, 2   Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming -- referred tond
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez). 
[CA] Resolution affirming the City of Cheyenne’s commitment, as stated in the City’s August 27,
2008 letter to the State of Wyoming Department of State Parks & Cultural Resources, attached to this
Resolution as Exhibit A, to use the proceeds of any sale of land described as Lot 2, Block 1, Cahill Park
Addition, Parks & Recreation facilities and to assist in the development of future Parks & Recreation
facilities within the City’s park system -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown and
Ms. Broyles).
County Preliminary Plat for Swan Ranch Rail Park, 5th Filing, portions of Sections 10, 11, 14,
15, 16, 21, 22, 23, 27, and 28, all in T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Laramie County,Wyoming (located
west of I-25, between Otto Road and High Plains interchange).  Mr. Collins moved to acknowledge
receipt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Collins moved to amend by substitute map, and substitute staff
report that includes staff recommendations #6 through 11 which must be satisfied prior to approval of
subsequent final plats, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mo tion to amend carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.  Appreciation was expressed that the substitute map reflects future
arterial and major roadways with helpful information for future area development, and comment was
made in support that similar information should be provided on other  large projects involving the
platting process.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and United
Way of Laramie County, to create a Human Services Advisory Council to coordinate and refine Human
Services funding and delivery systems (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Connie Sloan Cathcart, Executive
Director, United Way of Laramie County, stated she was present to answer any questions.  U pon
inquiry, Ms. Sloan Cathcart noted out of the total amount of funding received for United Way there is
an 88% return to the community with 12% maintained for administrative and indirect costs; explained
that $10,500 in annual funding, each from the City Council and County Commissioners, was approved
through the 5  penny sales tax process, a nd briefly explained the c oordinated services process theth
Advisory Council provides involving prog ram applications, and re view and r ecommendations for
funding of human services in the community.  Brief discussion included the percentage of funds for
administration, and funding amounts provided by the City and County.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve
in an amount not to exceed $42,000.00 [for years 2011 through 2014], seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash
and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#5742)
.  
[CA] Agreements between the City of Chey enne and the following  community Human Services
Agencies: Cheyenne Housing Authority and Peak Wellness Center, Inc., Alcohol Receiving Center.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $121,945.00). (#5743-#5744)
   
[CA] Agreements between the City  of Chey enne and the following  community Human Services
Agencies: American Red Cross; Boys and Girls Club of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Inc.; CASA of Laramie
County; Cheyenne Health and Wellness Center (Dental Access, Unified Human Service Eligibility and
Cheyenne Area Centralized Pharmacy); Climb Wyoming; Comea, Inc.; Connections Corner; Family
Promise; Green Path; Meals on Wheels of Cheyenne, Inc.; Needs, Inc.; Peak Wellness Center, Inc.;
Safe Harbor, A Children’s Just ice Center; Safehouse Services, Inc.; Special Fr iends of Chey enne;
Southeast Wyoming Foster Grandparent Program (Helping Youth and Helping Community); Southern
Wyoming Retired and Senior Volunteer Program; Wyoming 2-1-1, Inc.; Wyoming Family Home
Ownership and Wy oming Senior Citizens, I nc. (2011-2014 1% Sal es Tax).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $250,000.00). (#5745-#5767)

[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Downtown Development
Authority for parking spaces in the downtown parking garage.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
($52,920.00 annual revenue to City). (#5768)
   
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the State of Wyoming, Department
of Environmental Quality, to purchase a 2010 EPA emissions compliant landfill grader for the City of
Cheyenne landfill (Solid Waste Management fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5769)
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Community Based Family Support and Preservation Grant Contract No.
5644 between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and the Wyoming Department of Family
Services, Protective Services Division, for counseling services to families involving youths returning
from out-of-home placement -- referred to Finance Committee.
   
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division and Wyoming Department of Health,
Aging Division to provide supportive services to persons 60 years or older (Title III-B Program Grant).
-- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contrac t No. 5520, L ease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne,
acting by and through its Board of Public Utilities (BOPU), and Swan Ranch Development for Swan
Ranch Development to encompass additional property to construct and donate to BOPU a private water
and sanit ary sewe r sy stem that runs throug h the Swan Ranc h Rail Park -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee.
Amendment No. 4 to Contract No. 4563 between the City of Cheyenne and William A. Gross,
Managing Partner, Wyoming Cattle Co., LLC, for grazing lease on the Belvoir Ranch.  Mr. Valdez
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemecek, Assistant Public Works
Director, clarified the original lease allows the City to have use of the property for other activities that
do not conflict with the grazing provisions, noting the City decides which areas will be approved for
grazing.  She reviewed information pertaining to the moving of cattle to various pastures at times when
work is being conducted; circumstances which may affect the number of cattle; and that the original
contract specifies that livestock will be yearlings.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. (#4563)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-8-12  for furnishing one new 2011-2012 articulating overcenter aerial
device for the Forestry Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax and General fund) (Postponed from Oct.
10, 2011).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Consideration of Bid #R-2-12 for the sale of surplus property described as the south 66 feet of
Lots 9, 10 and 11, Block 666, South Cheyenne Addition, located within Section 5, T.13N.  R.66W.,
6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (a/k/a 515 Morrie Avenue).  Mr. Valdez reported there was no
recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Spiker moved to accept the bid from Tora
L. Curry and Scott C. Parson in the amount of $46,234.82, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon inquiry
about selling surplus property and whether a reserve bid price can be set, Dan White, City Attorney,
reviewed generally the provisions of Wyoming Statutes when utilizing the bid process, stating City
Council may reject bids if they are not satisfied with the bid amounts, and advised he did not recall any
language with regard to setting a reserve bid amount.  Comments followed with regard to the amount
the City paid to acquire the properties (City Clerk note: Also refer to affiliated following two agenda
items) vs. highest offer received, and future consideration of setting a reserve price.  Motion failed (due
to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Mr. Pierson and Dr. Rinne.
Consideration of Bid #R-3-12 for the sale of surplus property described as All of Lots 19 and
20, Block 665, South C heyenne Addition, located within Section  5 , T.13N.  R.66W., 6t h P.M.,
Laramie County, Wy oming ( a/k/a 916 E. 5th Street) .  Mr. Valde z reported ther e wa s no
recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Valdez moved to accept the bid from Tora
L. Curry and Scott C. Parson in the amount of $43,398.45.  Motion died due to the lack of a second to
the motion. (City Clerk note: Also refer to affiliated previous and the following agenda items) 
Consideration of Bid #R-4-12 for the sale of surplus property described as All of Lots 21 and
22, Block 665, South C heyenne Addition, located within Section  5, T.13N.  R.66W., 6t h P.M.,
Laramie County , Wy oming ( a/k/a 922 E. 5th Street) .  Mr. Valde z reported ther e was no
recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Valdez moved to accept the bid from Tora
L. Curry and Scott C. Parson in the amount of $51,395.25, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry,
Mayor Kaysen advised appraisals were conducted on all 3 properties and each appraised value was
higher than bid amounts received, and Nathan Beauheim, Assistant City Engineer, stated bidding was
through a sealed bid process and selling the properties would relieve the City of l andlord/property
management responsibilities and expenses.  Upon inquiry regarding whether the City could donate the
property for a good cause, Dan White, City  Attorney, discussed state c onstitutional provisions and
concern that the City may not have the legal ability to donate the properties, and commented on the
City’s  fiduciary responsibility to taxpayers.  Mr. Beauheim stated money received from the property
sales may be used for future right-of-way acquisition purposes.  Discussion included history of property
acquisition by the City in conjunction with the Norris Viaduct project; surplus and bid process that was
followed; property ownership costs to the City, other potential property uses, and current condition of
the structures situated upon the 3 prope rties.  I n response to query  on  structural conditions, Mr.
Beauheim provided information on the age of the buildings relative to electrical/heating systems, roof
conditions, etc., and stated sale of the properties, if approved, would be through a quitclaim deed and
that the properties were offered in an “as is” condition. Discussion included appraised property value
amounts and elements considered during the appraisal process; difference in the amount of appraised
property values vs. highest bids received; possible re-bidding process, and whether the properties could
be utilized through City Housing and Community Development programs.  Motion failed (due to a tie
vote).  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting
“no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson and Dr. Rinne. (City Clerk note: Also refer to
affiliated previous two agenda items) 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-12-12 for furnishing 70 Panasonic Toughbook 31 lap top computers
for the Police Department (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 14, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance
of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land being situated in
a portion of the N E1/4 of Section 1, T.13.N., R.67W. of the 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyomingth
(generally located north of and adjacent to West Lincolnway and east of and adjacent to the BNSF
Railroad).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 14, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive input and comments
for gathering information on possible projects for  the inclusion on the 1% Specific  Purpose Tax
election ballot, which has been scheduled for August 21, 2012. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 14, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’ Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to re ceive comments on the
proposed sale of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, described generally as Lot 2, Block 1,
Cahill Park Addition (located at the southeast corner of Windmill Road and Dell Range Boulevard) to
Menard, Inc. which would generate economic development benefits for the City of Cheyenne pursuant
to Wyo. Stat. §15-1-112 (b).  Estimated proposal value is $7.2 million.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 14, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for
The Peak Cafe II, LLC d/b/a The Peaks Cafe II at the Airport, 300 E. 8th Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 7:43 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 November 3, 2011