MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-11-14 | CLIP_ID: 250 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 250

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
November 14, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR: Richard L. Kaysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne and
Mr. Sp iker. Ab sent: Mr . V aldez.  A lso pr esent: Ca rol I ntlekofer, City  Cle rk; B arb Do rr, Ci ty
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mayor Kaysen noted a correction to consent agenda item #23
(Resolution involving proposed sale of real property near Windmill Road and Dell Range Blvd. to
Menard, Inc.), stating the item would be referred to Finance Committee instead of Public Services
Committee.  M r. Brown  mov ed to  a pprove Con sent A genda ite ms, se conded b y Mr . Co llins.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 24, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a  voucher payable to
Ameri-Tech H VAC Service s, and vac ated Council Chamber s.  Mr. Spiker moved to approve
payment of vouche rs as pre sented, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Upon i nquiry, Police Chief B rian
Kozak provided information regarding vouchers payable to Intoximeters ($685.95), individual mouth
pieces for portable breathalyzer tests, and DLR Group ($1,800), Police building energy analysis
study.  Upon inquiry, Robin Fee zer, Recr eation Coordinator, I ce a nd Events Center, pr ovided
information relative to a voucher payable to Belfor Property Restoration ($11,696.51), painting of
the front lo bby area of the I ce and Events Center w ith payment from 5  penny funds, and theth
Center’s current revenue vs. expenditure budget status.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  F ollowing announcement of the vote, Mr.
Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a public hea ring to rec eive c omments and input for g athering
information on possible projects for the inclusion on the 1% Spec ific Purpose Sales Tax election
ballot, which has been scheduled for August 21, 2012.  Mayor Kaysen advised another public
hearing before the governing body will be held at the Nov. 28  City Council meeting, and a publicth
meeting, hosted by City Council, will be held on Dec. 1 .  He provided information on the publicst
input p rocess b eing uti lized to  de termine pr oposed p rojects; referenced  pr oposed p roject(s)
information available on the City’s website, and reviewed guidelines that would be in place for those
wishing to provide comments during the public hearing, which included a 5 minute time limitation
per speaker.  Ms.  Ash requested procedural clarification regarding rules of debate, pursuant to
Roberts Rules of Orde r, and w hether the time fram e for speakers could be limited without an
affirmative vote of the governing body.  Following a 10 minute recess to allow City Attorney Dan
White an opportunity to review Roberts Rules of Order, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at
6:26 p.m.  Mr. Whi te advised the rules (i.e. Roberts Rules of Order) governing debate involve a
motion on the floor before the governing body, and that a public hearing, conducted for the purpose
of obtaining information and comment, does not constitute debate by Council members involving
a motion.  He further advised attendees/speakers are not considered members of the governing body
and reasonable (speaker) time limits could be imposed.   Jack Quirk questioned whether a menu-style
election ballot would be utilized and whether a total ballot projects dollar amount had been set;
commented on proposed City and County projects and past elections, and suggested timely visitation
with the County to determine a total ballot dollar amount.  Mayor Kaysen advised, with regard to a
menu-style ballot, that the structure of the ballot question is not controlled by the governing body.
John Sundahl, President, Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority, spoke in support of the 17th
Street Pedestrian Lighting and Beautification project ($1,960,000.00), and provided information on
elements that would be included in the downtown project area on 17  Street between Pioneer andth
Warren Avenues.  Ma tt Pope, former Chair of Citizens Recreation Center Committee, spoke in
support of a Recreation Center facility as a proposed project ($30,000,000.00), noting the proposed
project would be a “ scaled down” ve rsion from 2008 pl ans, and discussed ame nities that were
proposed for the building with the capa city for future expansion to add component ar eas.  Todd
Feezer, Assistant Director, Parks & Recreation Dept., confirmed an amount of 10% in funding for
operations an d maintenance is included in the proposa l, similar to the 2008 proposa l.  Wendy
Madsen, Friends of B otanic Gardens Foundation, spoke in support of a proje ct expanding the
Botanic Gardens Conservatory for $14,000,000.00 with an additional $2,000,000.00 for operations
and maintenance, advising construction would begin in 2013, provided information on the need to
upgrade the facility.  Darren Rudloff, President, Visit Cheyenne (convention and visitors bureau),
commented on the importance of tourism relative to the community’s tax base and spoke in favor
of the Wayfinding Sign project ($400,000.00-$500,000.00), stating the signage will direct residents
and visitors to places within the City.  Tim Rumpf, representative of the Cheyenne Police Protective
Association, spoke in support of the Public Safety Administration Building project, noting design
and structural deficiencies in the current Police Dept. building, and stated facility options may also
include space for Fire administration offices and/or a new fire station.  Mike Stanfield, Executive
Director, Cheyenne Housing Authority, requested the City consider a new stand-alone senior center
for inclusion as a  project ($7,500,000.00) and pr ovided information on the pr oposed new center
which w ould r eplace t he c urrent o ne-level a rea l ocated d owntown w ithin t he B urke h igh ri se
building that provide s meals and a n activity center for seniors.  Eric h Bochmann, Gymnastics
Coordinator, Parks &  Re creation Dept., spoke in support of a  building proje ct to repla ce the
Neighborhood Facility where the City’s gymnastics program is currently conducted, and provided
information on the disrepair of the current facility and lack of space to accommodate the growth in
gymnastic program participation.  Upon inquiry, Rick Parish, Director, Parks and Recreation Dept.,
provided information on the estimated $800,000.00 project relative to discussions with the school
district, which may be interested in acquiring the current facility, and potential new locations for
housing the gymnastics program, which might include adding on to a new recreation facility at a later
date.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Pope advised the dollar amount arrived at for the proposed new rec center
was to provide for a core facility that would be scaleable to add other future components.  During
the public hea ring, Ann Marg aret Bur ns also spoke in support of the ne ed for  repla cing the
Neighborhood Facility building, due to gymnastics program growth and competitive activities and
deficiencies in the c urrent building, as we ll as support for  a new  rec reation center  to meet
youth/senior needs w ith a g ymnastics area included.  Jack Palma spoke  in support of the lowe r
Capitol Basin Flood Control project to alleviate significant downtown area drainage and flooding
problems and noted use of grant funds toward the project.  Upon inquiry, Doug Vetter, Ci ty
Engineer, stated the updated estimated project cost is $4,800,000.00 to construct 3 of 4 phases; that
past ballot elec tion attempts t o form a storm wate r utility have be en defeated, and that moving
forward with the project would provide multiple benef its in addressing water control issues.  Dr.
Stephanie Erlich also spoke in support of the Capitol Basin Floor Control project, stating the primary
importance of  the  pr oject is  fo r p ublic sa fety wi th a dditional benefits o f p roviding his toric
preservation and revitalization of the west side of the City and downtown area.  During the public
hearing, Adrian Perry also spoke in support of the downtown area drainage and flood control project,
noting the project could help with revitalization opportunities and would leverage grant funding. 
John Volk spoke in support of the Christiansen Road Overpass project ($10,000,000.00) to improve
that portion of the transportation network due to growth in eastern Cheyenne, noting that 6  pennyth
funding is the only funding source available and that, potentially, industrial development funds, as
requested to the state through Laramie County, might also be available.  Upon inquiry regarding the
status of project plans, Mr. Vetter advised a conceptual planning study analysis has been done but
there are no construction plans in place, and stated design for the project is on the 5  penny projectth
list but is not funded.  Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemecek, Assistant Director, Public Works Dept., stated
approximately $1.5 million was allotted on the last 5  penny list (construction design plans) for theth
project but it is not a funded item due to reduced sales tax collection levels.  Wendy Volk, real estate
agent, also spoke in support of the Christiansen Overpass project and provided information on the
number of employees and truckers commuting in the eastern part of Cheyenne and problems with
GPS (global positioning system) devices diverting travelers/truckers off the highway onto private
property, noting this has resulted in a quality of life issue involving one particular property owner
in the area.   Throughout speakers’ presentations and comments, members of the governing body
posed questions to speakers and City staff on various projects presented, and Mayor Kaysen advised
any additional inform ation on projects being requested for consideration could be submitted to
members of the governing body.  He noted a website, a cooperative effort between the City, Laramie
County and the Towns of Albin, Burns and Pine Bluffs, is being developed for placement on the
Laramie County government’s website to provide information on projects and to receive additional
comments.  Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and reminded those in attendance that there will
be another public hearing to receive input and comments on proposed projects on Nov. 28, 2011 at
6:00 p.m. as well as a public meeting, hosted by City Council members, on Dec. 1, 2011, both to be
held in City Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input to determine whether
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist  for a parcel of land
being situated in a portion of t he NE1/4 of Section 1, T.13.N., R.67W. of the 6  P.M., Laramieth
County, Wyoming (generally located no rth of and adjacent to West L incolnway and east of and
adjacent to the BNSF Railroad).  Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development office, reviewed
requirements and compliance of conditions contained in Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402, including specific
information indicating compliance with Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402(a)(i) through (vi).  Upon inquiry, Mr.
Cammaratta advised this is a voluntary annexation (petition) request by the property owner.  There
being no further comments or input and purpose  of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen
closed the public hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments on the prop osed sale of real
property owned by the City of Cheyenne, described generally as Lot 2, Block 1, Cahill Park Addition
(located at the southeast corner of Windmill Road and Dell Range Boulevard) to Menard, Inc. which
would generate economic development benefits for the City of Cheyenne pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §15-
1-112 (b).  Estimated proposal value is $7.2 million.  Frank Cole spoke in opposition to selling park
land for c ommercial business purposes, and c ommented on why  he did not  view the proposed
commercial use as providing economic development benefits and whether proposed drawings for
the  building had been submitted.  Dr. Stephanie Ehrlich spoke in support of the property sale to
Menard.  Scott  Nuttelman, Mena rd re presentative, spoke in support of the pr oposed sale,
commenting on the value the Menard store can bring to the community and noting that Menard has
not had any serious consider ation of any other site within the community .  He pr ovided a br ief
history of how Menard learned about the possible availability of the property site and subsequent
conversations with City staff, and discussed the City’s RFP (request for proposals) that was issued;
the proposed purchase price and infrastructure elements Menard’s will b e providing to the a rea;
anticipated staffing levels; the possibilit y of a future distribution center facility in Cheyenne that
would serve the region, and benefits of the project, including additional commercial businesses that
could be located on “out lots” on the property.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Nuttelman advised design plans
have been submitted to City staff and Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, provided information
relative to agenda item #17 ( Resolution affirming that use of pr oceeds from any sale of the  land
would be used for Parks and Recreation purposes) which should resolve past title concerns involving
assertion of a property interest by Laramie County.  M r. Ashby stated information pertaining to
supporting documentation, including the proposed purchase and sale agreement and development
agreement, is included with the ag enda packet for the re solution (agenda item #23)  that will be
reviewed by Finance Committee, and confirmed building and site design standards are being worked
on and would be subject to the “big box” standards for large commercial developments.  Pursuant
to inquiry by City Council members, Mr. Ashby; Rick Parish, Director, Parks and Recreation Dept.;
Mayor Kaysen and Police Chief Brian Kozak provided information on economic development value
of the property; the original intent in disposing of the property with sales proceeds to benefit other
park lands in the City, and assessment of the site as an option for a new public safety administration
building, in conjunction with that project potentially being included in the next 6  penny ballotth
question, respectively.  Butch Heimsoth questioned the time frame the property was open to bid by
interested parties and the estimated proposed value and improvements that would benefit the City
as the result of the sale, and expressed concern with the site being possibly considered for a joint
safety administration building.  Spencer Straub commented on the current volume of traffic in the
area and concern with additional traffic congestion from commercial development, and greenway
path usage in the vicinity.  Upon inquiry regarding the process for disposing of City owned property,
Dan White, City  Attorney, advised W yo. Statute §15-1-112(b) permits the sale of  a par ticular
property to one purchaser for the purposes of promoting economic development, and reviewed past
use re strictions on the proper ty and ef forts to have  the re strictions eased; platting  and zoning
changes; C ouncil’s a pproval to  neg otiate wi th M enards, a nd fa ctors e ncompassing e conomic
development.  He indicated if the property were not sold, it could be used for any City purpose, and
explained rea sons why  the proposed sa le to Menar d was plac ed bac k on the Coun cil ag enda
subsequent to pre vious action, including  an expression of intere st from Menard in pursuing
acquisition of the property as there had been no vote on the actual merits of their proposal to
purchase.  Mayor Kaysen advised that since the previous action, clarity on the title issue involving
Laramie County had also been received.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Ashby provided information on the RFP
time frame in which proposals of interest could be submitted, and clarified there is no requirement
by state statute to conduct an RFP process.  There being no further comments or input and purpose
of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for The Peak Cafe II, LLC d/b/a The Peaks Cafe
II at the Airport, 300 E. 8th Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Rosalie Iverson, co-partner/owner of The
Peaks Cafe, advised other partners were also in attendance at the meeting and were available to
answer any questions.  There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been
met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and referred the item to Finance Committee.
Ordinance amending certain Chapters and Sections of Title 17, Zoning, of the Cheyenne City
Code by Repealing and Re-enacting Section 17.80.080, Signs, of Chapter 17.80, P Public District.
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Ms. Ash moved to amend Table 1 under the column for “Distance from
right-of-way (ROW)” by replacing 5 o r less (feet) and 5 to 10 (feet) with NA, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.   It was clarified that NA meant Not Available.  Discussion included the following topics:
Other public signs that may be affected by the amendment; potential request for  similar changes
involving commercially zoned areas, and site distance factors, including restricted setback distances
in the downtown area and placement of signs too far back to be effective for visibility.  D uring
discussion M att A shby, Pl anning Se rvices D irector, p rovided in formation o n zo ning dis tricts,
commenting that each individual zone district has its own tailored sign regulations and that typically
the ROW is from the back of a sidewalk but varies throughout the community, and discussed current
requirements vs. the proposed amendment within the P Public district.  Motion to amend failed.
Voting “yes” -- Dr. Rinne.  V oting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Ms. B royles, Mr.
Collins, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mayor Kaysen. Comment followed on message display time
limits as amended at the previous meeting.  Mr. Allen moved to amend Section 17.80.080 B. 5. b.
to instead read “ Message displays shall change a maximum of once a n hour”, seconded by Mr.
Pierson.  Mr. Ashby clarified the previous amendment approved at the last City Council meeting was
that message displays shall remain fixed for a minimum of every 8 seconds.  Dru Rohla, Executive
Director, Cheyenne Civic Center, advised the proposed amendment wouldn’t provide an effective
advertising time frame for shows as he could be advertising up to 12 shows at a time, and explained
the current 30 year old sign marquee has become a safety issue for staff and is labor intensive to
manually change the message board.  Frank Cole commented that the proposed amendment may
affect oth er signs in a “ P” zoned are a, and disc ussed message display time frame s and driver
distraction, and potential effect of an ordinance change relative to signs in the private sector.  Motion
to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr.
Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mayor Kaysen.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present. (#3936)
Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated at
5618 Townsend Place and described as the North 170 feet of Tract 6, Briney Tracts, Laramie County,
Wyoming (generally located at the southwest corner of Townsend Place and east Carlson Street) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
Ordinance amending an exis ting PUD Or dinance, “Appendix #1” of the  C heyenne and
Laramie County Zoning Ordinance 1988, for B lock 5, Mountview Park, a nd that portion of the
vacated right-of-way of East 19th Street as vacated under Ordinance No. 2001, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of East Pershing Boulevard and Converse Avenue)
(“Cole Shopping Center”)  -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
 
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Cheyenne City Map of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the z oning
classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential – Established District to MUB Mixed Use
with Business Emphasis District for Lots 5, 6 and the we st 44-feet of Lot 7, Block 110, Original
City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Warren Avenue and
E. 25  Street)  -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).th
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  Map of the Che yenne C ity Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from L R-2 Low Density Residential – Deve loping District to NB N eighborhood
Business District for Lot 6, Block Thr ee, and Lot 6, Block Four, Sundanc e Ridge II, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of Storey Boulevard, on either side of Sycamore Road)  -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with Swan
Ranch Properties, L LC, L ot 4 , B lock 1 , S wan R anch R ail P ark, 3   F iling, L aramie C ounty,rd
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5324) 
[CA] Resolution approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with TMH
Wyoming Properties, LLC, Lot 3, Block 1, Swan Ranch Rail Park, 1  Filing, Laramie County,st
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5325)   
[CA] Resolution approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with Knife
River Corporation - Northwest, Lot 2,  Block 1, Swan Ranch Rail Park, 1  Filing, Laramie County,st
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5326) 
[CA] Resolution a pproving ou tside Us er Wa ter/Sewer S ervices, by  Us er’s A greement, wi th
Cheyenne LEADS, Lot 1, Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail Park, 2   Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming.nd
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5327)
[CA] Resolution affirming the City of Cheyenne’s commitment, as stated in the City’s August 27,
2008 letter to the State of Wyoming Department of State Parks & Cultural Resources, attached to this
Resolution as Exhibit A, to use the proceeds of any sale of land described as Lot 2, Block 1, Cahill
Park Addition, Parks & R ecreation facilities and to a ssist in the development of future Parks &
Recreation facilities within the City’s park system.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5328)
[CA] Resolution determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist
for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of the NE1/4 of Section 1, T.13.N., R.67W. of the 6th
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located north of and adjacent to West Lincolnway and
east of and adjacent to the BNSF Railroad) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Collins).
[CA] Resolution authoriz ing the  City  staff to issue a  Request for Proposa ls for desig n and
permitting of an expansion to the Happy Jack Landfill -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Collins).  
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for GDC Subdivision,
being portions of Section 1, T.13N., R .66W., S ection 6, T.13N., R.65W., Section 31,  T.14N.,
R.65W., Section 36, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., and a replat of a portion of the right-of-way of HR
Ranch Road, JL  Ranch, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of Interstate 80, west of Campstool
Road)  -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Anderson Corner,
Third Filing, a replat of a portion of Lot 3, Block 1, and 20’ Walkway & Drainage R/W [right-of-
way], Anderson Corner, Sec ond Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of
Mason Way, between Grandview and Converse Avenues) -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor- Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution acknowledging receipt of and approving the Interchange Enhancement Design
Guidebook prepared by Tom Cobb, P.E. and Nolte Associates, Inc. for the Cheyenne Metropolitan
Planning Organization -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
 
[CA] Resolution determining tha t the sale of rea l property  owned by  the City  of Chey enne,
Wyoming would benefit the economic development of the City pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-112(b)
and authorizing the Mayor to sign a purchase and sale agreement and a development agreement with
Menard, Inc. for the sale of 23.87 acres of City-owned land platted as Lot 2, Block 1, Cahill Park
Addition (l ocated at the southeast corner of the intersection of Windmill Road and Dell Range
Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming) -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown and Ms.
Broyles).
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Community Based Family Support and Preservation Grant Contract No.
5644 between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and the Wyoming Department of Family
Services, Protective Services Division, for counseling services to families involving youths returning
from out-of-home placement .  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$22,400.00). (#5644)
   
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, a nd Wyoming De partment of
Health, Aging Division, to provide supportive services to persons 60 years or older (Title III-B
Program Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5774)
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 5520, Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne,
acting by and through its Board of Public Utilities (BOPU), and Swan Ranch Development for Swan
Ranch Development to encompass additional property to construct and donate to BOPU a private
water and sanitary sewer system that runs through the Swan Ranch Rail Park.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5520)
[CA] Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth
Alternatives, and Wyoming Department of Family Services, Division of Juvenile Services, for partial
funding of Municipal Juvenile Court staffing and pretrial services -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Memorandum of Agreement between the Cheyenne Fire Department and Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) providing guidance for emergency response services to the FAA -- referred
to Finance Committee.
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Little America Hotels and Resorts, Inc.
for placement of a billboard advertising sign -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Servic es Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Me tropolitan Planning
Organization, and Felsburg Holt and Ullevig for a study titled ‘8  Avenue Corridor Plan’ -- referredth
to Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres Associates for the
Downtown Cheyenne Lower Capitol Basin Brownfield Project -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion #1 to C ontract #5 707 betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Aztec
Construction Co., I nc., for a dditional construction service s for the Sny der A venue Stormwa ter
Pipeline Project (2007 - 2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Contract Addendum to Contract #5614 between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners
for City employee health coverage -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-12-12 for furnishing 70 Panasonic Toughbook 31 lap top computers
for the Police Department (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-14-12 for furnishing four Dell Precision T3500 computers and 31
Dell 780 mini tower compute rs for the Chey enne Police D epartment -- re ferred to F inance
Committee.
Announcement was made of the Reappointment of Rolfe Bur gess to the City  Planning
Commission, to be confirmed November 28, 2011.
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Jim R ose and Shauna Lacey to t he City
Planning Commission, to be confirmed November 28, 2011.  
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Tyler Bedwell, Kadi Davis, Tanvir Dhami,
Ian Dome, A ddie Fleming, Juliette Givhan, De an Jackson, J oey Marchand, John Matsen, Robert
McGarry, McKinzea Olsen, Jacob Peter son, Gary Sayler and Margarita Medrano, to the Ma yor’s
Youth Council, to be confirmed November 28, 2011.
Under other business:
Upon request, City Clerk Carol Intlekofer read the following announcement for the record:
“Announcement of Public Hearing to b e held November 28, 2011 at 6: 00 p.m. in City Council
Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive input and comments for gathering
information on possible projec ts for the inclusion on the 1% Specific  Purpose Sales Tax election
ballot, which has been scheduled for August 21, 2012.
Mayor Kaysen noted the resignation of John Knepper, Assistant City Attorney, and expressed
appreciation to him for his services to the City.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 9:26 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 November 29, 2011