MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-11-28 | CLIP_ID: 252 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 252

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
November 28, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR: Richard L. Kaysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Allen and Dr. Rinne, agenda item #17 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request
by Mr. Allen, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash, agenda item #25(e) was
removed from the Consent Ag enda.  Mr . Collins moved to app rove remaining Consent Ag enda
items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 14, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a public hea ring to  receive comments and input for g athering
information on possible projects for the inclusion on the 1% Spec ific Purpose Sales Tax election
ballot, which has been scheduled for August 21, 2012.  He reviewed guidelines (identical to those
utilized at the November 14  public hearing) that would be in place  for those wishing to provideth
comments during the public hearing, which included a 5 minute time lim itation per speaker, and
announced tha t Cit y Council would be hosting a dditional public meetings to re ceive input on
proposed projects on December 1, 18 and 20 beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Ms. Ash
moved to appeal to remove the imposition of the guidelines, as previously reviewed, for the conduct
of the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Discussion followed on the purpose of the guidelines,
time limit for speakers, importance of projects to the community , and more public hearings and
meetings being scheduled on proposed 6  penny projects than in the past.  Motion failed due to lackth
of an affirmative majority vote.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins and
Mr. Spiker.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Va ldez and Mayor Kaysen.
Carol Matteson Pascal spoke in support of the Greenway Expansion project, noting past efforts and
achievements involving g reenway paths; st affing; advisory  council; Fr iends of the Gr eenway
Foundation; g rant f unding; c ommunity pa th u sage, a nd the  ne ed to continue wi th p ath
connections/expansions and to provide funding for capital improvements and maintenance.  Matt
Pope spoke in support of a Recreation Center, stating his belief that there is a lot of community
support for the project and noting that the City has expended a financial investment for planning of
the project in the past.  He advised he would be providing more detailed project information at the
City Cou ncil’s D ecember 1  pu blic me eting.  B ob Clary c ommented in  fa vor o f t he L andfillst
Expansion project at the current Happy Jack site and provided information on the review, evaluation
and recommendations made by a past L andfill Advisory Counc il, of which he was a  member,
involving options for an e xtended or newly developed landfill site; DEQ coordina tion; financial
considerations affiliated with hauling of solid waste to Colorado, and ke eping the Belvoir Ranch
property in mind as a backup option.  He noted the project involves a new landfill disposal cell
which would extend the cur rent life of  the landfill by  30 y ears.  Rich Cumm ings, Chey enne
Gymnastics Parent Booster Club, spoke in support of an expansion to the City’s gymnastics program
through two options, either adding the facility to the City-owned Ice and Events Center or including
an area for the program in a new Recreation Center.  He provided information on the Club’s efforts
to alleviate costs of the competitive program, program growth and need for additional physical space,
and expressed concern with the future of the program relative to lack of facility space and possible
future no n-availability of  the  Neighborhood Ce nter.  Ki m Ma es, Director of  Se nior P rograms,
Cheyenne Housing Authority, spoke in support of a new Senior Center and provided information on
meal services, program activities and services provided to se niors in the community.  She stated
more space is nee ded due to the g rowing number of sen ior participants and prog rams offered;
commented on the a ge of the  curr ent ce nter and maintenance re pairs and a ffiliated c osts, and
indicated preference for the facility at or ne ar the current location if possible.  B arbara Stafford,
member, Chey enne B otanic Ga rdens F oundation, spoke in favor  of the B otanic Ga rdens
Conservatory project and provided information on the proposed project. She advised she would be
providing more detailed project information at the City Council’s December 1  public meeting.st
Christie DePoorter, Executive Director, Downtown Development Authority, spoke in support of the
downtown 17  Street Pedestrian Lighting and Beautification project, noting downtown beautificationth
and enhancement benefits will include lighting and streetscape elements, and stating that the project
will assist with promotion of further usage of the area and support private financial redevelopment
investments currently taking place in the downtown.  Renee Lone Elk commented in support of a
new Senior Citizen Center and the volume of senior citizens in the community who will benefit from
senior programs and expanded facilities. Adrian Perry spoke in support of the Capitol Basin Flood
Control project, citing the need for drainage improvements and noting the project will also provide
an opportunity for public green space amenities.  Jim Lambert also spoke in support of the Capitol
Basin F lood Co ntrol p roject to  a lleviate do wntown d rainage c oncerns a nd pr ovide be nefits t o
downtown.  Joey Marchand, member, Mayor’s Youth Advisory Council, spoke in support of the
Botanic Gardens Conservatory project, noting educational benefits to youth, needed infrastructure
improvements and benefits of the current facility and its programs.  Tanvir Dhami, member, Mayor’s
Youth Advisory Council, commented in support of improvements at Johnson Pool benefitting that
area of the community as well as providing youth activities.  During  the public hearing, Edward
Melko commented on the Landfill Expansion project vs. the Belvoir Ranch as a future landfill site
and funding utilized to acquire the ranch, and suggested consideration of a regional landfill to serve
other communities in the ar ea in addition to t he City. In separate comments, he stated propose d
projects should be compiled from the aspect of a “needs list not a want list” and offered comments
in support of the Capitol Basin Flood Control project and Public Safety Administration (Police and
Fire) B uilding p roject.  D uring the  pu blic he aring, Jam es Pe rrott Ma cNeil c ommented o n h is
concerns involving ownership of the Belvoir Ranch area and in opposition of ranch property being
used for landfill purposes.  In separate comments he expressed his concerns with the current national
and international financial and economic conditions and future uncertainties that may affect ballot
question voter results.  Following input and comments from those in attendance, Dr. Rinne, City
Council President, advised of pla nned presentations on proposed pr ojects to be he ard a t the
December 1  public meeting hosted by City Council.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen reviewed thest
process being utilized by the City as well as the governments of Laramie County and the Towns of
Albin, Burns and Pine Bluffs that would result in a recommended 1% Specific Purpose projects list
from each respective entity with a total proposed ballot dollar amount for placement on the election
ballot.  Purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated at
5618 Townsend Place and described as the North 170 feet of Tract 6, Briney Tracts, Laramie County,
Wyoming (generally located at the southwest corner of Townsend Place and east Carlson Street).
Reporting fo r P ublic S ervices C ommittee, M r. Collins m oved t o ap prove o n s econd re ading,
seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon inquiry  Stacey Dierisch, r epresenting her mothe r who owns the
property being annexed, clarified the Board of Public Utilities provided them an early permit to
install water and sewer lines, but advised they will not be connected until approval of the annexation.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  
Ordinance amending an existing PUD Or dinance, “Appendix #1” of the  Cheyenne and
Laramie County Zoning Ordinance 1988, for  Block 5, Mountview Park, and tha t portion of the
vacated right-of-way of East 19th Street as vacated under Ordinance No. 2001, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of East Pershing Boulevard and Converse Avenue)
(“Cole Shopping Center”).  Ga ry Harrison, Concepts West Architec ture, representative for the
applicant, Safeway, Inc., provided information regarding the proposed zone change conditions for
the property, explaining Safeway is interested in purchasing the property for future development,
including c onstruction of new  buildings, and tha t curre nt PUD conditions restrict wher e new
buildings ma y be  pla ced.  He  g enerally re viewed Sa feway’s sit e development p lan e lements,
including bu ilding de sign to  c onform wi th t he City ’s “ big bo x” c riteria, b uffering, s etbacks,
landscaping, parking and lighting, and indicated the seller of the property has requested the proposed
ordinance be conditioned for effectiveness upon the sale of the property being closed.  Mr. Harrison
discussed Safeway’s plans for the site, advising  property redevelopment plans involve an estimated
$20 million dollar investment, and noted the importance of a timely decision on the City’s proposed
roundabout intersection configuration adjacent to the property as it affects the site plan that will be
submitted and the construction schedule.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Harrison confirmed no height limit
requirements were included in the amending ordinance and that it had been discusse d with staff,
noting a two-story (new Safeway) building was planned, and that the topic of allowing electronic
signs may be discussed further with staff.  Discussion followed on whether height requirements for
buildings and addressing the topic of allowing electronic signs should be included in the ordinance,
and p ossible r oundabout c onfiguration c hanges a ffecting th e s ite.  T erry K unz, Sa feway
representative, clarified Safeway would be open to working with the City regarding a proposed
roundabout design as it will affect some of the property area and project construction timing.  Danny
James suggested an alternative to the currently proposed roundabout design through utilization of
a counter clockwise route, controlled by traffic lights, with Mayor Kaysen requesting he share the
information, including a map depiction as prepared and referenced by Mr. James, with the City
Engineer.  Mr. Collins moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Comments
followed re garding a dec ision on the roundabout conf iguration to assist in moving Saf eway’s
redevelopment project forward in a timely manner.  Mr. Collins moved to amend wording in Section
#5. contained in the ordinance to replace the current wording with language that indicates the zone
change will be applicable contingent upon the sale of the property, and adding Section #6. which
would contain prior Section #5. wording that indicates that the ordinance shall be in full force and
effect upon its publication, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised,
pursuant to request by the property owner and Safeway representatives to have the zone change be
contingent upon sale of the property, that he had legally reviewed the issue and discussed with
planning and development staff and that it is permissible to state the sale of property as a condition
to the effectiveness of the ordinance.  He stated he planned to submit proposed amending language
for consideration by the parties and submit at the next Public Services Committee meeting.  Mr.
Collins withdrew his motion to amend with concur rence by Ms. Ash as sec ond to the motion.
Motion to approve on second reading carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
 
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  Map of the Che yenne City  Code, by  changin g the zoning
classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential – Established District to MUB Mixed Use
with Business Emphasis District for Lots 5, 6 and the west 44-feet of Lot 7, Block 110, Original
City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Warren Avenue and
E. 25  Street).  Mr. Collins moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motionth
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  Map of the Che yenne City  Code, by  chang ing the  z oning
classification from L R-2 Low Density Residential – Deve loping District to NB N eighborhood
Business District for Lot 6, Block Thr ee, and Lot 6, Block F our, Sundance Ridge II, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of Storey Boulevard, on either side of Sycamore Road).  Dr. Rinne declared
a conf lict of interest (ne arby proper ty owner  interest) a nd vaca ted Council Cham bers.  Rick
Hunnicutt, President, Western Development Corporation, and representative of DLH Trust, property
owners, stated the owne rs had determined the best use of  the property would be for  commercial
purposes, such as professional services offices, in addition to townhouses.  Concerns were expressed
regarding the elevation of a dirt pile due to soil grading in the area.  Mr. Hunnicutt advised storm
water drainage plans had been submitted, and commented that landscaping and a drainage retaining
wall will be implemented in the dirt pile area with the goal of having the area look more like the west
side of the pr oject.  Mr. Collins moved to approve on se cond reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.
Comment followed on possible restriction of the type of commercial business use to be allowed
either through covenants or zoning.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Dr. Rinne returned to
Council Chambers.
Resolution determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist
for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of the NE1/4 of Section 1, T.13.N., R.67W. of the 6th
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located north of and adjacent to West Lincolnway and
east of and adjacent to the BNSF Railroad).  Mr. Collins m oved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Ash.
Concern was expressed relative to t he ability to s ustain more hotels in the area and future uses.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  (#5329)
[CA] Resolution authoriz ing the  City  staff to issue a  Request for Proposals for desig n and
permitting of an expansion to the Happy  Jack Landfill.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5330)
Resolution a uthorizing th e M ayor a nd th e Ci ty Cl erk to  s ign a  F inal P lat f or G DC
Subdivision, being portions of Section 1, T.13N., R.66W., Section 6, T.13N., R.65W., Section 31,
T.14N., R.65W., Section 36, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., and a replat of a portion of the right-of-way
of HR Ranch Ro ad, JL Ranch, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located south of I nterstate 80, w est of
Campstool Road).  Ma yor Kaysen declared a conf lict of interest (f amily financial interest) and
relinquished duties of the chair to Council President Rinne, and vacated Council Chambers.  James
Perrott MacNeil spoke in opposition to annexation of the property.  Mr. Collins moved to adopt with
staff reco mmendations #1  a nd 2,  se conded b y Ms.  As h.  Mo tion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll
members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote,
Mayor Kaysen returned to Council Chambers with Council President Rinne returning duties of the
chair to Mayor Kaysen.  (#5331)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for A nderson
Corner, Third Filing, a replat of a portion of Lot 3, Block 1, and 20’ Walkway & Drainage R/W
(right-of-way), Anderson Corner, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located
south of Mason Way, between Grandview and Converse Avenues).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.  (#5332)
Resolution acknowledging receipt of and approving the Interchange Enhancement Design
Guidebook prepared by Tom Cobb, P.E. and Nolte Associates, Inc. for the Cheyenne Metropolitan
Planning Organization.  Mr. Collins moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Collins moved
to postpone for two weeks (to Dec. 12, 2011), seconded by Mr. Allen.  John Palmer questioned the
reason for postponement and it was advised postponement would provide additional time to review
the document.  Discussion followed on review of the guidelines and that the guidelines will provide
consistency within the community for design concepts.  C omments of concern were made with
entitlement wording of the resolution with regard to “approving” the guidebook, and whether the
word “supporting” would be more applicable for a resolution vs. ordinance document.  Motion to
postpone failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body.  Mr. Collins moved to amend
the resolution entitlement to substitute the term “approving” with “supporting” and also making the
same change in the Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved paragraph, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Comments
followed on the proposed amendment; bridge designs following the same criteria, and concern with
supporting a past I-180 bridge design, as depicted on the cover of the guidebook, and the governing
body’s reflection of support for the guidebook to WYDOT.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”.  Main motion as
amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash
voting “no”. (#5333)
Following a ten minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:10 p.m.
Resolution determin ing that the sale  of re al prope rty owned by  the City  of Chey enne,
Wyoming would benefit the economic development of the City pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-112(b)
and authorizing the Mayor to sign a purchase and sale agreement and a development agreement with
Menard, Inc. for the sale of 23.87 acres of City-owned land platted as Lot 2, Block 1, Cahill Park
Addition (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Windmill Road and Dell Range
Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, noted the resolution
includes a purchase and sale agreement to sell the property to Menard, which includes provisions of
the purchase and sale specifications, and a development agreement, which describes the conditions
under which the property would be developed, including public infrastructure.  He briefly reviewed
the proposed sa les amount (ca sh value to the City ); public infra structure areas and value ;
construction and development value; estimated number of jobs the development project will bring
to the community; and possibility of a Menard distribution center in the future.  Mr. Ashby advised,
pursuant to previous discussions, that a recent site selection report indicates a downtown location
is the recommended preferred option for a proposed new police headquarters.  D an White, City
Attorney, stated the County  Commi ssioners have  executed an unc onditional quitclaim deed
conveying to the City all of the County’s right, title and interest in Section 28 so the City now has
unconditional title to the entirety  of Section 28.  He advised the title insuranc e compa ny has
reviewed the deed and has cleared that particular matter from the title insurance commitment so the
City has the ability to convey a clear and marketable title to Menard should the sale move forward.
John Palmer questioned placement of the resolution on the agenda as a consent agenda item.  Mayor
Kaysen explained the proc ess utiliz ed for  placing  ag enda items on the Consent Ag enda ( i.e.
unanimous approval of recommendation from Finance Committee members) and how items ar e
removed.  Scott Nuttleman, Menard representative, referenced previous information he discussed
at the November 14  City Council meeting and briefly reiterated Menard’s interest in doing businessth
in Cheyenne through purchase of the property; community and infrastructure benefits affiliated with
commercial development of the site; proposed construction schedule; potential outparcel uses, and
potential for a future Menard industrial distribution center.  Jeanne Tucker questioned the wisdom
of bringing another big box store of this ty pe to Cheyenne which could adversely affect current
businesses in the community.   James Perrott MacNeil expressed his concerns with the proposed sale
to Menard a nd the cur rent e conomic situation; questioned t he VA (Vetera ns Administration)
manager’s authority to waive property use restrictions, and commented on the County’s relinquishing
its interest in the property.  Upon inquiry, Mr. White reviewed information pertaining to use of the
property as affiliated with the VA’s involvement and use requirements, and clarified the VA had
submitted a le tter cle aring the proposed sale to Mena rd for  the uses identified.  Tim Dr yden,
Cheyenne Girls Softball Association a/k/a Extreme Fast Pitch, a traveling competitive program,
spoke in support of the sa le, expressing interest that the funds fr om the sale be  used to build a
championship quality field at the Converse Softball Complex, and discussed benefits to the league
and the community that would be derived from having a championship field, including the ability
to host tournaments.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez moved to adopt, seconded by
Mr. Collins.  Comments followed on typographical errors that should be corrected in printed dollar
amounts that had bee n noticed in the Purcha se and Sale Agreement as well as the Deve lopment
Agreement; use of the property for public vs. commercial use; envisioned truck traffic route to access
the site; response to the RFP (Request for Proposal) that was issued and RFP process concerns;
informal property appra isal information; due dilige nce; sa les proce eds bene fitting pa rks and
recreation facility improvements and projects; whether proceeds could be considered for use toward
the downtown fire  site as a poc ket par k; property  site bein g an area involving low potential
residential growth, and r emaining adjacent open spa ce still available  to the City  if the sale w as
approved.  During comments, Mr. Ashby  and Mr. Nuttleman pr ovided information on propose d
truck traffic routes, and Mr. Ashby advised he was not aware of any other business expressing an
interest in the property since the RFP was advertised last spring.  Mayor Kaysen stated that proposed
use of proceeds toward a pocke t park a t the downtown fire  site would need to be  looked into.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Allen,
Dr. Rinne and Mr. Valdez voting “no”. (#5334)
[CA] Resolution a uthorizing the  City  of  Che yenne, th rough th e City  At torney’s Of fice, to
commence condemnation proceedings to obtai n real property located a t 1900 Converse Ave nue
necessary for the completion of the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project (Phase 4) (2003-
2006, 2007-2010 1% Sales Tax). (Postponed from Oct. 24, 2011) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Resolution authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment Board for a $3.0 million loan from the State Revolving Fund for the City of Cheyenne
Hydroelectric Generation Facility Project and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and the Director of
the Board of Public Utilities to sign all loan documents (Drinking Water State Revolving Fund) --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
 
[CA] Resolution approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with Swan
Ranch P roperties, L LC, L ot 2 , B lock 1 , S wan R anch Rail P ark, 3  F iling, L aramie C ounty,rd
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne approves of the Pine
Bluffs projects to be submitted to the State L oan and Investment Board for the 2011 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant funding -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
[CA] Resolution supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water Conservation
Fund Grant for the Martin Luther King Park Tennis Court Project -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Sundance Ridge
II, a replat of Lots 1-6, Block 1, and Lots 1-6, Block 2, Sundance Ridg e I, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located north of Storey Boulevard, on either side of Sycamore Road) -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to lease, with an option to purchase
sanitation, recycling and landfill equipment (Solid Waste fund) -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth
Alternatives, and Wyoming Department of Family Services, Division of Juvenile Services, for partial
funding of Municipal Juvenile Court staffing and pretrial services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.  (#5777)
 
[CA] Memorandum of Agreement between the Cheyenne Fire Department and Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) providing guidance for emergency response services to the FAA.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5778)
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Little America Hotels and Resorts, Inc.
for placement of a  billboard adve rtising sign.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried ($1,000.00
annual revenue to the City). (#5779)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Metropolitan Planning
Organization, and Felsburg Holt and Ullevig for a study titled ‘8  Avenue Corridor Plan’.  Motionth
(per Consent Agenda) carried (federal funds). (#5780)
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres Associates for the
Downtown Cheyenne Lower Capitol Basin B rownfield Project.  Mr. Valde z moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Brown.  Comment was made in support of the project with reference to past surface
drainage election ballot questions that had failed.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body. (#5781)
[CA] Grant of non-exclusive easement to Suncor Energy Pipeline Company for a parcel of real
property located in a portion of Section 21, 22, and 27, T.14.N, R.66W., City of Cheyenne, Laramie
County, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Contract Modifica tion #1 to C ontract #5707 between the  City  of Chey enne a nd Aztec
Construction Co., Inc., for additional construction services for the Snyder Avenue Stormwa ter
Pipeline Project (2007 - 2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to
exceed $14,923.22). (#5707)
 
Contract A ddendum t o Co ntract #5 614 b etween th e City  of  Che yenne a nd WI Nhealth
Partners for City employee health coverage.  John Palmer questioned a change to  d rop re tiree
coverage over the age of 65.  Judi Just, Accounting Office, explained the reasons for the change,
citing the cost of high premiums that have resulted in no employees electing coverage in recent years.
Mr. Valdez moved to appr ove, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Va ldez moved to amend by  re-
inserting the following language in #8: “Elected and appointed officials who have served two or
more consecutive terms, defined as 8 consecutive years, and are age 50 or more when they leave
office,” seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Upon request, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, restated wording of
the proposed amendment.  Discussion included the recommendation from Finance Committee to re-
insert the proposed amendment language that has been in past contracts for years, and how the age
of 50 was deter mined as the base age.  M s. Just explained the age of 50 is consistent with the
Wyoming Retirement System guidelines, which require someone to be at least age 50 before they
can retire.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the
exception of Ms. Ash voting “no.” . Upon inquiry, Steven Goldstone, President/CEO of WinHealth
Partners, advised if the age of 50 was dropped there may be, actuarially, a theoretical risk having an
adverse effect on costs to the City, and that on a short term basis it would probably be minimal.  Mr.
Pierson moved to amend #8 by striking the following language at the end of the sentence:  “ ... and
are age 50 or more when they leave office.”, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Barb Dorr, City Treasurer,
reviewed early retirement employee options offered in the past which also indicated the  retirement
age of 50; provided information pertaining to the firefighters contract, which states they have to be
at least age 50 before they can receive retirement, and clarified retirees pay 100% of the premium
but the fact they are in the pool reflects the overall rate the City pays.  Further discussion followed
on the proposed amendment and the City’s retirement policy.  During discussion, Ms. Just provided
information on related elements involving the state retirement program.  M s. Broyles moved to
postpone tw o w eeks (t o D ec. 1 2, 20 11), se conded b y Mr . Pi erson.  Comments f ollowed in
opposition to postponement.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “yes” --  Ms. Broyles.  Voting “no”
-- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and
Mayor Kaysen.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body.  Main
motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5614)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-14-12 for furnishing four Dell Precision T3500 computers and 31
Dell 780 mini tower computers for the Cheyenne Police Department.   Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (a ccept bid from Dell Marke ting, L .P., Round Rock, TX in an a mount not to ex ceed
$35,880.50).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-15-12 for furnishing one new 2011-2012 ½ ton pickup for the City
of Cheyenne, 1% Construction Division, from Spradley Barr Motors of Cheyenne (2011 - 2014 1%
Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-16-12 for furnishing two new 2011-2012 4x4 light duty compact
pickup trucks f or the City  of Chey enne, Parks and Recr eation Department, fr om Spradley Barr
Motors of Cheyenne (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for The Peak Cafe II,
LLC d/b/a The Peaks Cafe II at the Airport, 300 E. 8th Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.   Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Reappointment of Rolfe Burgess to the City Planning Commission.  Mr. Collins moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Appointment of Jim Rose and Shauna Lacey to the City Planning Commission.  Mr. Collins
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Appointment of Tyler Bedwell, Kadi Davis, Tanvir Dhami, Ian Dome, Addie Fleming,
Juliette Givhan, Dean Jackson, Joey Marchand, John Matsen, Robert McGarry, McKinzea Olsen,
Jacob Peterson, Gary Sayler and Margarita Medrano, to the Mayor’s Youth Council.  Mr. Collins
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Charis Kepper to the Art in Public Places
Committee; J. Terry Williams to the Chey enne Housing Authority Board; Joe Patterson to the
Contractor Licensing Board; Stephanie L owe and Wesley Peterson to the Histo ric Preservation
Board; April Matthie to the  Housing & Community Development A dvisory Board; Ba rbara
Schutkowski-Fortish and Connie Hand to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities; Francis
J. Dennis to the Public Transit Advisory Board, and Sue E. Mecca to the City of Cheyenne Personnel
Commission, to be confirmed December 12, 2011.
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointment of John Lyttle and Marcia Mead to the Art
in Public Places Committee; Nicole Novotny Smith, Beverly Bowman and Jody K. Malm to the
Board of Adjustments; Joel McKee and Keith Fox to the Building Code Board of Appeals; Mark
Walter to the Contractor Licensing Board; Mark Hardee to the Fire Civil Service Commission; Rick
Ammon, Wendy Owen and Belinda Kolb to the Historic Preservation Board; Stephen M. Ganison,
Carol Slane, Kha le Lenhart and L orna H. Sanders to the Housing  & Community  Development
Advisory Board; Pete Illoway to t he Cheyenne Airport Board; Russ Pollard to t he Police Civil
Service Commi ssion, and Rita Watson to the City  of Chey enne Personnel Commis sion, to be
confirmed December 12, 2011.
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Lois A. Huff as City Treasurer for the City
of Cheyenne, to be confirmed December 12, 2011.     
       Announcement was made of a Public Meeting, hosted by the Cheyenne City Council, to be
held Thursday, December 1, 2011 from 6:00 to 9:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, on possible projects for inclusion on the August 21, 2012 1% Specific
Purpose Sales Tax election ballot. 
Under other City business:
Upon request, City Clerk Carol Intlekofer read the following announcement for the record:
Announcement of a Public Meeting to be held Thursday, December 8, 2011 starting at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive input and comments
for gathering information on possible projects for the inclusion on the August 21, 2012 1% Specific
Purpose Sales Tax election ballot.
John Palmer commented on the following  topics: County  elec ted offic ials repr esenting
citizens; C ouncil member c onflict of intere st conce rns; proposed Safewa y purcha se of Cole’s
property and re development plans a nd timing of same  re lative to the rounda bout project a nd
proposed eminent domain action involving the former Hollywood Video business property.
Councilperson Broyles stated a constituent had requested she raise the question of whether
meetings on the proposed UDC (Unified Development Code) scheduled in December could be
moved to January so the meetings don’t conflict with holiday schedules.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 9:41  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 10, 2011