MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-12-12 | CLIP_ID: 254 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 254

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
December 12, 2011
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen (arriving at 6:10 p.m.), Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr.
Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Barb
Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash, agenda item #14 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request
by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Rinne and Ms. Ash, agenda item #19 was
removed from the Consent Ag enda.  Mr . Collins moved to app rove remaining Consent Ag enda
items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 28, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a  voucher payable to
Ameri-Tech H VAC Service s, and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Va ldez moved to approve
payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote,
Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers. 
Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated at
5618 Townsend Place and described as the North 170 feet of Tract 6, Briney Tracts, Laramie County,
Wyoming (generally located at the southwest corner of Townsend Place and east Carlson Street).
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Collins moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#3937)
Ordinance amending an exis ting PUD  Ordinance, “Appendix #1” of the  Cheyenne and
Laramie County Zoning Ordinance 1988, for  Block 5, Mountview Park, and tha t portion of the
vacated right-of-way of East 19th Street as vacated under Ordinance No. 2001, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of East Pershing Boulevard and Converse Avenue)
(“Cole Shopping Cen ter”).  Gary Harrison, Concepts West Architec ture, representative for the
applicant, Safeway, Inc., briefly reviewed Safeway’s redevelopment plan s for the current Cole
Shopping Center site, noting the estimated $20 million dollar investment project will inc lude
construction of ne w buildings.  J eff Ferg ot, Safewa y corpor ate a rchitect and desig n manag er,
clarified the new Safeway building will result in approximately  20-25 additional employees, and
reviewed anticipated improvements to the property , which include a potential fuel fa cility and
revamping of current retail buildings.  He noted the importance of a timely decision by the City on
the proposed roundabout intersection configuration, adjacent to the property, as it affects the site plan
that will be submitted, the construction schedule, and the planned new store opening date, which has
now been delayed to 2013.  Mr. Collins moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by
Ms. Ash.  Mr. Collins  moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Ms. Ash.  I t was advised the
substitute includes a  building heig ht limi t of three  stories unless approve d by  the B oard of
Adjustment, eliminates language restricting electronic message centers beyond what is currently in
the City Code for the  CB Community  Business District, a nd a provision to make the or dinance
effective only after the sale of the property.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Allen w ho did not vote (arrived at the
meeting as roll call (voting) was in progress. (#3938)
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 C heyenne City  Map of the Che yenne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential – Established District to MUB Mixed Use
with Business Emphasis District for Lots 5, 6 and the we st 44-feet of Lot 7, Block 110, Original
City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Warren Avenue and
E. 25  Street).  Mr. Collins moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.th
Concern was expressed with businesses encroaching into residential areas.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  (#3939)
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established and
Section 17.08.040 Chey enne City  Map of the Che yenne City  Code , by chang ing the  zoning
classification f rom LR-2 Low Density Residential – Developing Di strict to NB N eighborhood
Business District for Lot 6, Block Thr ee, and Lot 6, Block F our, Sundance Ridge  II, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of Storey Boulevard, on either side of Sycamore Road).  Dr. Rinne declared
a conflict of int erest (nearby property owner interest) and vacated Council Chambers. Ka tharine
Wilkinson, speaking on behalf of April Brimmer Kunz and Carol and Art Merrill (residents in the
vicinity), reviewed the residential ownership and non-commercial nature of the area on the north side
of Storey Blvd.  She expressed the following concerns: Future of the vicinity relative to commercial
vs. residential uses, spot zoning, visual aesthetics, traffic volume, maintaining residential integrity
of the area, fill dirt issues, and lack of restriction on types of businesses that may be allowed.  Jack
Knudson and Sharon Knudson reviewed the development of the in-house business located in the area
affiliated with a past zone cha nge; expressed c oncerns with spot z oning a nd fut ure potential
commercial development off Storey Blvd., and discussed the neighborhood’s environment, future
planning decisions, and neighborhood quality of life issues.  Bob Parry, owner of Kiki’s Kandles,
and Ed Clark spoke  in support of the de velopment af filiated with the propose d zone chang e,
commenting that the project fits with the PlanCheyenne document, promotes jobs and sales tax
revenue, and brings water and sewer infrastructure to the area.  Reference was also made regarding
current businesses in the vicinity.  Rick Hunnicutt, President, Western Development Corporation,
summarized how the area in general had changed due to The Pointe subdivision; commented on
current businesses, including  a chur ch, in the Storey  Blvd. a rea that have be en built and that
proposed commercial use would be for office space, not bars or restaurants; reviewed infrastructure
that has been implemented in the neighborhood due to the current development project, and advised
the project will result in a nice subdivision.  Mr. Collins moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon inquiry, Brett Walker, Development office, provided information on
zoning differences between commercial Community Business vs. Neighborhood Business Districts,
and allowable uses by right in a Neighborhood Business District.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the
vote, Dr. Rinne returned to Council Chambers. (#3940)
Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated in
a portion of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 1, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the
6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located north of and adjacent to West Lincolnway
and east of and adjacent to the BNSF Railroad) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Collins).
Ordinance amending Chapter 5.08, Business License Fees, Section 5.08.010, Amusements,
of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the license
fee for conducting a theater business -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
Resolution a uthorizing the  City  of  Che yenne, th rough th e City  At torney’s Of fice, to
commence condemnation proceedings to obtain re al property located at 1900 Converse A venue
necessary for the completion of the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project (Phase 4) (2003-
2006, 2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  John Palmer spoke in opposition to the resolution, commenting
on project planning concerns, and suggested further discussions be held with affected property
owners regarding possible other roundabout configuration alternatives in lieu of eminent domain
proceedings.  Danny  J ames questioned the status of a n alterna tive to the curr ently proposed
roundabout design that he presented at the last City Council meeting which involved changing the
timing of the lights to help control traffic.  In response, Doug Vetter, City Engineer, advised City
staff had reviewed the plan and concluded a signal timing plan was not a viable option due to traffic
volumes and current intersection problems.  He expressed appreciation to Mr. James for submitting
the alternate proposal.  Alex Davison, attorney representing the land owner involved in the potential
condemnation action, extensively reviewed the land owner’s issues and concerns regarding the intent
of the resolution and affiliated issues, and submitted a written position (i.e. City and property owner)
summary (on file with office of City Clerk), explaining the summary’s contents and referencing a
December 8, 2011 letter involving the “last offer”.  His comments included the following topics:
Property value a nd differences in appraisa ls that had bee n acquired; damage components to the
property due to the proposed roundabout configuration; engineer’s estimate of the  corridor plan;
alternate roundabout plan from MTJ Engineering he had previously submitted to the City; City’s
acquisition of the parcel desired for the roundabout vs. acquisition of the entire business property
site; future planning and zoning exemptions that may be required for any commercial activities at
the former Hollywood Video business site due to loss of the par cel the City  wishes to acquir e;
property acc ess/egress issues; potential loss  of future income to the proper ty owner s; gr ound
contamination issues; City’s monetary offer amount to acquire the parcel desired for the roundabout
project and Cit y funds that could be available to purchase the entire property (in re: reference to
information contained within the Ay res Associates J uly 2009 plan).  Scott L arsen, Benchmark
Engineers, reviewed information on the alternate dual roundabout configuration as prepared by MTJ
Engineering, stating the engineer, from Wisconsin, was unable to be present at the meeting.  During
his comments he noted the alternate proposal had been submitted by MTJ as a conceptual design
layout and that there are typically changes in design that occur between conceptual and final design
stages, and reviewed benefits of a dual road design.  Mr. Davison spoke in f avor of two smaller
(dual) roundabouts being constructed at the intersection which would result in less impact to the
property owner.  He advised the last offer on the table from the property owners was for the dual
roundabout design and the option for the City to purchase their entire property; stated negotiations
can continue but probably will not “bear fruit”, and briefly discussed the elements surrounding a
condemnation action through the courts relative to the City and his client.  Tom Mason, Director of
Metropolitan Planning Organization, provided information on how the proposed roundabout plan
was de veloped throug h profe ssional eng ineering service s, and af filiated pre liminary estimated
project costs; explained the different design phases utilized prior to proceeding to the final design,
advising of the diff erent engineering firms that were  involved, and noted a  competitive bidding
process was used throug hout the desig n phases.  Na than B eauheim, Ass istant City Eng ineer,
provided information on right-of-way acquisition and areas involved in the roundabout construction
project; expressed concerns with the proposed alternate dual design, as referenced by Mr. Davison
and Mr. Larsen, as it would require additional property; advised the proposed signalized traffic light
option, as suggested by Mr. James, would require additional property needed to achieve separation,
and commented that the goal has been to only acquire property needed for the intersection project.
He reviewed the project’s site design area and changes that had been made resulting in the f inal
design; stated there was a wide disparity between the parties regarding property values, and noted
the e minent d omain p rocess a llows a  thi rd pa rty (i .e. c ourt) t o d ecide iss ues, inc luding jus t
compensation, and provides an opportunity for parties to present their case.  Matt Ashby, Planning
Services Director, provided information relative to the zoning variance process that may be desired
for the remaining property not needed for the project; possible role of the City involving a variance
request; different e lements the B oard of  Adjustment would consider whe n revie wing varia nce
requests, and the potential option of a development agreement for future uses.  Upon inquiry, Dan
White, City Attorney, reviewed the process involving eminent domain proceedings pursuant to state
law that would occ ur if the r esolution was adopted, w hich would i nclude a right of entry  court
hearing, a determination by the court as to whether the City could use the property for purposes of
the construction project and, if so, a review by the court as to the difference in the parcel’s value
before and after the taking to determine a reasonable compensation amount.  Following a five minute
recess to allow Mr. White  to provide copies to Council members of a n e-mail correspondence
previously referenced by Mr. Davison during his comments, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting
at 7:50 p.m.  Mr. Valdez reported there was no recommendation from Finance Committee on the
item.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mayor Kaysen clarified for the record
that Mr. White had provided Council members with a copy of the e-mail Mr. White had sent to Mr.
Davison pursuant to the purpos e of the recess and, upon inquiry, Mr. White described the  topics
content contained in the e- mail.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Ve tter stated he  did not believe ther e were
significant differences in state  licensing requirements for an engineer’s license in Wyoming vs.
Colorado.  U pon inquiry, Mr. Davison stated the engineering firm hired to design an alternate
roundabout configuration was not a Wyoming firm, noting the alternate design was a concept.  Upon
inquiry involving the previous Henderson Basin Flood Control Project in the vicinity, Mr. Beauheim
provided information on the flood control project relative to the Hollywood Video site, drainage
detention and proposed reconstruction of the intersection.  Discussion included the following topics:
Purported areas of non-reconciliation between the City and property owner; moving forward with
condemnation proceedings to allow for an unbiased third party review (i.e. court system); potential
exemption requests for future variances for non-conforming use for land owner’s remaining property
not needed for the intersection project; purchasing of the entire property in addition to the parce l
needed for the construction project, and concern with moving forward with a condemnation process.
Upon further inquiry regarding condemnation proceedings, Mr. White explained issues the cour t
would review to deter mine the value of  the prope rty invol ved in the proceedings.  D iscussion
continued on the reconstruction intersection project; traffic flow/volume studies and future increased
traffic volume proje ctions for the a rea; access traffic flow points re lative to the location of the
intersection; reasonable purchase price for property parcel the City wishes to acquire for the project;
neutrality element of court process to address property issues; intersection improvement needs;
fiduciary responsibility to taxpayers; differing property appraisals; Safeway redevelopment project;
neighborhood benefits, and concern with implementing eminent domain procedures.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Ms. B royles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Ri nne and Ma yor Kaysen.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Following announcement of the
vote and upon in quiry by Mayor Kaysen, Mr. Davison shared that he (i.e. pr operty owners) was
obviously open to further discussions, however, he will recommend to his clients that they put their
property up for sale.  (#5335)
Resolution authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment Board for a $3.0 million loan from the State Revolving Fund for the City of Cheyenne
Hydroelectric Generation Facility Project and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and the Director of
the Board of Public Utilities to sign all loan doc uments (Drinking Water State Revolving Fund).
Mayor Kaysen declared a conflict of interest (family affiliated financial interest), relinquished duties
of the chair to Council President Dr. Rinne, and vacated Council Chambers.   Mr. Valdez moved to
adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon inquiry, Bud Spillman, Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities
(BOPU), advised Che yenne L ight, F uel and Power  curr ently doesn’t have  a ra te in place  for
hydroelectric power set up in its system and they are reviewing this further.  Mr. Spillman stated it
is believed the rate fee would be paid out of the sales revenue generated from the facility.  Motion
carried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll m embers of  the  g overning body present i n Co uncil Ch ambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mayor Kaysen returned to Council Chambers with Council
President Dr. Rinne returning duties of the chair to Mayor Kaysen. (#5336)
 
[CA] Resolution approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with Swan
Ranch P roperties, L LC, L ot 2 , Block 1 , S wan R anch R ail P ark, 3  F iling, L aramie C ounty,rd
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5337)
[CA] Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne approves of the Pine
Bluffs projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2011 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant funding.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5338)
Resolution supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water Conservation
Fund Grant for the Martin Luther King Park Tennis Court Project.  Mayor Kaysen announced staff
had requested this item be withdrawn from the agenda.  Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director,
advised one of the funding partner elements essential to grant funding requirements could not be met
and, therefore, the project could not move forward at this time.  He stated another proposed project
for consideration would be introduced under other business later in the meeting.  There being no
objections raise d by  memb ers of City Council, May or Ka ysen announc ed the item would be
withdrawn from the agenda.
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Sundance Ridge
II, a replat of Lots 1-6, Block 1, and L ots 1-6, Block 2, Sundance Ridge I, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located north of Storey Boulevard, on either side of Sycamore Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.  (#5339)
Resolution authorizing the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to lease, with an option to purchase
sanitation, recycling and landfill equipment (Solid Waste fund).  M r. Valdez  m oved to adopt,
seconded by Mr. Brown.  Query was made regarding certain language contained in Sections 1 and
5 of the resolution with Dan White, City Attorney, advising that the wording is typically requested
by the bank financing the equipment and allows for flexibility to change the lease agreement wording
relative to such last minute details as the da te of closing and inter est rate , and to protec t the
transaction if lang uage is fo und in the past that is inconsistent with new lang uage in future
resolutions.  Mary Keating-Scott, George K. Baum and Co., financ ial advisor to the City  on the
proposed lease/option to purchase transaction, clarified the intent behind the two sections was as
explained by Mr. White; advised the resolution had been  prepared by bonding a ttorney Barbara
Bonds, and that the language was the same as used in the past.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. (#5340)
[CA] Resolution c onfirming the  te rms o f a ppointment f or me mbers of  the  L aramie Cou nty
Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor
- Mr. Pierson).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for North Cheyenne Community Park, Second Filing, a replat of North
Cheyenne Community Park, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located nor th of and a djacent to St orey
Boulevard, e ast o f a nd a djacent t o Ch ief Wa shakie A venue) - - r eferred to  Pu blic Se rvices
Committee. 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Rivett Subdivison, a portion of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section
1, Township 13 North, Range 67 West, of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and
adjacent to W. Lincolnway, east of and adjacent to the BNSF Railroad) -- referred to Public Services
Committee.
Grant of non-exclusive easement to Suncor Energy Pipeline Company for a parcel of real
property located in a portion of Section 21, 22, and 27, T.14.N, R.66W., City of Cheyenne, Laramie
County, Wyoming.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Valdez moved to
amend by substitute which includes Exhibit B, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Erik Rasmussen, Deputy
City Attorney, advised the initial agenda packet information submitted did not include Exhibit B,
the Memorandum of A greement, which conta ins a compensa tion provision to t he City and the
proposed amendment is to incorpora te Exhi bit B to ensure  the City  is paid b y Suncor for the
easement within 30 days of execution of the agreement.  He further reviewed how the dollar amount
was arrived at and clarified the pipe line is in place.  Upon inquiry, Megan Romano, Suncor Energy
representative, confirmed that crude oil runs through the pipeline.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. (#5782)
[CA] Amended and Restated Lease Agreement to Contract No. 2660 between the City of Cheyenne
and Safehouse/Sexual Assault Services, Inc., for the City-owned property located at 714 West Fox
Farm Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County, City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne
Board of Public Uti lities, Cheyenne/Laramie County Boa rd of He alth and Chey enne Re gional
Airport Board regarding the management of the Environmental Systems Research Institute (Esri)
Enterprise L icense for the Coope rative G eographic I nformation Sy stems (GI S) progr am, and
authorizing the City of Cheyenne as a software user participant in the Multi-Jurisdictional Licensing
Agreement -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifications No. 1, 2 and 3 to Contract No. 5740 between the City of Cheyenne,
Parks a nd Re creation D epartment, a nd Ac ademy Spo rts Turf, L LC, f or a dditional su b s oil
replacement for  the Pioneer Par k Ba seball F ield-Infield Renovation Projec t (SL IB f unding) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5776 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and E/S3 Consultants, Inc. for Energy Project Consulting Services. (Energy
Development fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-15-12 for furnishing one new 2011-2012 ½ ton pickup for the City
of Cheyenne, 1% Construction Division, from Spradley Barr Motors of Cheyenne (2011 - 2014 1%
Sales Tax).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $22,897.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-16-12 for furnishing two new 2011-2012 4x4 light duty compact
pickup trucks for the City  of Chey enne, Parks and Recr eation Department, from Spradley Barr
Motors of Cheyenne (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $50,172.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-17-12 for furnishing one new 2011/2012 motor grader for the City
of Cheyenne, Sanitation and Landfill Divisions (State EPA Grant & Solid Waste Management fund)
-- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-18-12 for fu rnishing three new 2012 four whe el/all wheel drive
utility vehicles for the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue and Planning Departments  (2007 - 2010
1% Sales Tax and General fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of Lois A. Huff as City Treasurer for the City of Cheyenne.  Mr. Collins moved
to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --  all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Appointment of Charis Kepper to the Art in Public Places Committee; J. Terry Williams to
the Cheyenne Housing Authority Board; Joe Patterson to the Contractor Licensing Board; Stephanie
Lowe and Wesley Peterson to the Historic Preservation Board; April Matthie to the Housing &
Community Development Advisory Board; Barbara Schutkowski-Fortish and Connie Hand to the
Mayor’s Council for People w ith Disabilities; Francis J. Dennis to the Public Transit Advisory
Board, and Sue E. Mecca to the City of Cheyenne Personnel Commission.  Mr. Valdez moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --  all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Re-Appointment of John Lyttle and Marcia Mead to the Art in Public Places Committee;
Nicole Novotny Smith, Beverly Bowman and Jody K. Malm to the Boa rd of Adjustments; J oel
McKee and K eith Fox to the Building  Code Boa rd of Appe als; Mark Walter to the Contrac tor
Licensing Board; Mark Hardee to the Fire Civil Service Commission; Rick Ammon, Wendy Owen
and Belinda Kolb to the Historic Preservation Board; Stephen M. Ganison, Carol Slane, Khale
Lenhart and Lorna H. Sanders to the Housing & Community Development Advisory Board; Pete
Illoway to the Cheyenne Airport Board; Russ Pollard to the Police Civil Service Commission, and
Rita Watson to the  City of Cheyenne Personnel Commission. Mr. Valdez moved t o ap prove,
seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --  all members of the governing body with
the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
       Announcement was made of a Public Meeting to be held Tue sday, December 20, 2011
starting at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to
receive input and comments for gathering information on possible projects for the inclusion on the
1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax election ballot, which has been scheduled for August 21, 2012. 
Announcement was made that due to the Christmas holiday and City offices being closed on
Monday, December 26, 2011, the regularly scheduled meeting of the Governing Body will instead
be held on Tuesday, December 27, 2011 beginning at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101
O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.                   
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 27, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers for a microbrewery permit application filed with the City Clerk's Office for
Freedoms E dge B rewing Co., LLC d/ b/a F reedoms E dge B rewing Co. , 3 01 W. 1 6th Str eet,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 27, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers for a microbrewery permit application filed with the City Clerk's Office for
Freedoms Edg e B rewing 2, L LC d/b/a Fre edoms Edg e B rewing Co., 1509 Pioneer  Avenue ,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement w as made of  the  Ap pointment o f T errence Bell t o th e Laramie Cou nty
Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board, to be confirmed December 27, 2011. 
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Betsy Putnam, Ronn Jeffrey, Alfrieda
Gonzales, Diane Lozano, Dr. Richard Berry, Craig Jones, Ester Davison, William Long, Gus Lopez,
Ross McKelvey, Danny Glick, Jeff Lamm, Rick Robinson and Gay VanHorn to the Laramie County
Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board, to be confirmed December 27, 2011.
Under other business:
Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, explained a proposed resolution for introduction
that will support an application for a Land and Water Conservation grant for a playground expansion
project in Holliday Park that will address ADA accessibility issues.   Upon request, Carol Intlekofer,
City Clerk, re ad the r esolution entitlement as follows: “A Resolution  supporting the City  of
Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water Conservation Fund grant for the Holliday Park West
Playground Expansion Project.”  It was noted that Councilman Valdez was sponsor of the resolution.
Mayor Kaysen referred the item to Finance Committee.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 8:48  p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
December 29, 2011