MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2011-12-27 | CLIP_ID: 257 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 257

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
December 27, 2011
Due to the h oliday season, the r egularly schedule d Dec ember 26, 2011 meeting  of the
governing body of the City of Cheyenne was instead held on this date beginning at 6:00 p.m. in
Council Chambers.  Present we re: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr.
Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr.
Valdez.  Also prese nt: Kristy Anderson, Deputy City Clerk; Barb Dorr, City Treasurer, and Dan
White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
 Mayor Kaysen read a proclamation and presented a plaque in recognition of City Treasurer
Barb Dorr’s retirement, thanking her for 21 years of service to the City and community.  Barb Dorr
expressed her appreciation to the May or, Council members, c ity staff a nd the community  for
allowing her the opportunity to serve as City Treasurer. 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Brown moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 12, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown, Mr. Valdez and Mr. Allen each declared a conflict of interest (business interest
in vouchers payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, Radio Station KYOY FM and Scotty’s Pizza
Factory respectively) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Spiker moved to appr ove payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  City Treasurer Barb Dorr, Councilwoman Broyles,
Police Chief Brian Kozak, Parks and Recreation Director Rick Parish and Mayor Kaysen provided
information on the following vouchers: First American Title, federal loans used to assist with closing
costs for CHOP program offered through the Housing and Community Development office; Laramie
County She riff’s Of fice - C ARI, federal grant t hat a llows of ficers to r espond a nd inv estigate
domestic violence issues; W. G. Dale Electric Co., disconnecting power at Saddle Tramps building
in preparation for demolition of building, and Action Ads, Transit wall calendars that contain CTP
logo purchased with federal funds. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown, Mr. Valdez
and Mr. Allen returned to Council Chambers. 
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a microbrewery
permit application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Freedoms Edge Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a
Freedoms Edge Brewing Co., 301 W. 16th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr. Stephanie Erlich spoke
in support of the application and having a microbrewery in this historic building to help keep it
vibrant.  Ther e being no further  comments and pur pose of the he aring having been me t, Mayor
Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a publi c hea ring to rec eive a nd comments and input for a
microbrewery permit application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Freedoms Edge Brewing 2,
LLC d/b/a Freedoms Edge Brewing Co., 1509 Pioneer Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Upon inquiry,
Tim Moore, applicant, clarified the microbrewery to be located at 301 W. 16   will be a dispensingth
area with sales to the public as well as an area for brewing.  He further advised the microbrewery
permit to be located on Pioneer Ave. is specifically for a manufacturing and distribution facility, not
open to the public.  There being no further comments and purpose of the hearing having been met,
Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated in
a portion of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 1, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the
6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located north of and adjacent to West Lincolnway
and east of and adja cent to the B NSF Railroad).  Reporting for Public Service s Committee, Mr.
Collins moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Ordinance amending Chapter 5.08, Business License Fees, Section 5.08.010, Amusements,
of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the license
fee for conducting a theater business.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon inquiry, Kristy Anderson, Deputy City
Clerk, reviewed the reason for reducing the annual business license fee to a flat fee of $130.00 from
$225.00 per screen, explaining theaters now utilize digital media instead of cellulose nitrate film,
which has r educed the time expended for on-site Fire Dept. inspections. Ms. Anderson fur ther
clarified the fee reflects an amount relative to the time allotted for fire inspection costs as well as
administrative processing of applications.  Further comments followed in reference to past ordinance
changes for business licenses with similar fee structures that are now a flat annual business license
fee. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
Ordinance creating Section 10.52.240, Parking of Oversized Vehicles, Trailers, and Semi-
trailers in Residential and Mixed Use Districts, Prohibited, of Chapter 10.52, Stopping, Standing and
Parking generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming
-- referred to Committee of the Whole (sponsor - Ms. Broyles).  Mayor Kaysen clarified this item
and Agenda Item #21 (Resolution determining and prioritizing the projects to be proposed to the 1%
Specific Purpose Sales Tax Committee) are being referred to the Committee of the Whole, which
will meet January 4, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers and is open to the public. 
Ordinance re pealing Ordinanc e No. 3408, a s amende d, which adopte d the “Chey enne-
Laramie County Subdivision/Development Regulations 2000,” and repealing Ordinance No. 3720,
as amended, which a dopted the “2006 Roa d, Street, and Site Planning  Design Standards,” a nd
repealing Title 17, Z oning, of the Chey enne Ci ty Code 2002, in its entirety , and adopting  the
“Cheyenne Un ified Developm ent C ode,” wh ich is  a ttached h ereto a s E xhibit A  a nd fu lly
incorporated herein by reference -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsors - Ms. Ash, Mr.
Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen). 
[CA] Resolution c onfirming the  te rms o f a ppointment f or members of  the  L aramie Cou nty
Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5341)
[CA] Resolution supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water Conservation
fund grant for the Holliday Park West Playground Expansion Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.  (#5342)
[CA] Resolution designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Resolution designating the Sundays during 2012 that annual liquor licensees may extend
dispensing room hours of operation for sales until 2:00 A.M. the following day -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
 
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute the attached Business Ready
Community Grant and Loan Program Grant Agreement between the Wyoming Business Council and
the City  of  Che yenne to assist in m aking pe destrian a nd str eetscape imp rovements to We st
Lincolnway, West 17  Street, Thomes Avenue and Pioneer Avenue adjacent to Block 392, Originalth
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
[CA Resolution authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a State Historic Preservation
Office Certified Local Government Grant Agreement for attendance at the 2012 Saving Places
Conference (State Historic Preservation Office grant) -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Allen).
 
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a State H istoric Preservation
Office Certified Local Government Grant Agreement for historic building analysis and case studies
of historic buildings (State Historic Preservation Office grant) -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Allen).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a State Historic Preservation
Office Certified Local Government Grant Agreement for an International Code Council Class on
building codes and historic buildings (State Historic Preservation Office grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
[CA] Resolution determining and Prioritizing City of Cheyenne projects to be proposed to the 1%
Specific Purpose Sales Tax Committee for potential inclusion on the 1%  Specific Purpose ballot
proposition to be presented to qualified electors of Laramie County during the August 21, 2012
primary election -- referred to Committee of the Whole (sponsors - Dr. Rinne, Mr. Collins, Mayor
Kaysen).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for North Cheyenne Community Park, Second Filing, a replat of North
Cheyenne Community  Park, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located nor th of and a djacent to St orey
Boulevard, east of and adjacent to Chief Washakie Avenue).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Preliminary Plat for Rivett Subdivison, a portion of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section
1, Township 13 North, Range 67 West, of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and
adjacent to W. Lincolnway, east of and adjacent to the BNSF Railroad).  Mr. Collins moved to
acknowledge receipt with staff recommendations #1 and 2, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Collins
moved to amend by removing staff recommendation  #2 and replacing it with Planning condition
#3 as follows: “Include access and utility easements on final plat before signatures are affixed to
accommodate shared access and utility easements.  This will require additional easements be placed
on the lot adjacent to the east,” seconded by Ms. Ash. Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. Comments followed reg arding the L ong Range Missile Drive
Corridor plan, location of street easements prior to final plat approval, concerns regarding lack of
right-of-way, 10 acres of undeveloped property located north of Lincoln Court and access questions
regarding development of the property.  Main motion as amended carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
Amended and Restated Lease Agreement to Contract No. 2660 between the City of Cheyenne
and Safehouse/Sexual Assault Services, Inc., for the City-owned property located at 714 West Fox
Farm Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming.   Mr. Valdez moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Mr.
Valdez moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City
Attorney, explained the amendment clarifies that Safehouse is responsible for all maintenance of
buildings on the site and all utility charges on the site. James Perrott MacNeil questioned ownership
of the buildings and whether the property is leased. Upon inquiry, Mr. White and Mayor Kaysen
clarified the City owns the buildings and land.  M otion to a mend carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. Discussion followed regarding clarification between Safehouse and
the City on ownership of the buildings, a new lease with removal of certain clauses that are in the
existing lease, approving the use of the property for 25 years with a renewal option for another 25
years, rental fee of $1.00/year, the lease recognizing the City owns the buildings, and Safehouse
continuing to provide current services.  Mr. Collins moved to amend by substitute as approved by
the city attorney and dated Dec. 27, 2011, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Upon inquiry, Barbara Rogers,
President of the Board of Directors for Safehouse, thanked council members and the Mayor for their
work on the amended lease and advised she could not speak on behalf of the Board, but they would
need to review the proposed substitute for consideration.  Further discussion followed regarding the
renewal clause  in the lease which provides the option for an additional 25 years, extending the lease
to the y ear 2037.  Dr. Ri nne moved to amend Sec tion 25 by  adding  lang uage that states the
agreement can be renewed at the option of lessee WITH CONSENT OF LESSOR, seconded by Mr.
Allen.  Mr. White clarifie d the language contained in that Section provides the w ord “may” not
“shall”as stated by Dr. Rinne. The maker of the motion and second to it concurred on the language
as “may”. Discussion followed regarding the 50 year lease term, conditions if Safehouse should want
to assign the lease, terms in the lease that protect the City, and support for the non-profit group .
Upon inquiry  and for  clarification purposes, Kristy  Ander son, Deputy  City  Clerk, re ad the
amendment as proposed: “This Lease Agreement may be renewed at the option of the Lessee WITH
CONSENT OF LESSOR for an additional term of twenty-five (25) years commencing December
31, 2037, provided however that Lessee shall not have the option to renew this Lease Agreement if
Lessee is then in default.  No further extensions or renewals of this Lease Agreement shall be valid
with the express written consent of the Lessor.” With no objection raised from Council members,
Mayor Kaysen requested permission to ask questions of Safehouse’s attorneys.  Upon inquiry, Holly
Olson, Holland and Hart, legal representative for Safehouse, advised that the proposed amendment
has not been presented to the Safehouse Board for review yet and advised they were unaware of
conceding to the claim of the City’s ownership of the buildings.  She also mentioned that 50 years
is a much longer lease term than had been discussed previously, noting it is an attractive option, and
commented they would like to rea ch terms both sides are comfortable with by  terminating the
assigned lease agreement with Attention Homes and entering into a new one.  Discussion continued
on the length of the lease term.  Mr. B rown raised a point of orde r regarding discussion on what
would happen if Safehouse does not acknowledge the new lease.  Mayor Kaysen ruled discussion
should remain germane to the proposed amendment on the floor regarding Section 25 of the pending
substitute.  Motion to amend failed (tie vote).  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles, Dr.
Rinne, Mr. Valdez.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Ma yor
Kaysen.  Upon further inquiry regarding whether the Safehouse Board may not acknowledge the
proposed substitute, Mr. White advised the lease agreement entered into in 1988 with Attention
Homes would still be in effect and Safehouse would be leasing on a month to month basis. Upon
further inquiry, Mr. White clarified if Safehouse recommended changes to the proposed lease, those
requests would have to come ba ck before the governing body for approval.  Motion to amend by
substitute dated Dec. 27, 2011 carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who voted “no”.  Main motion as twice amended carried. Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body with the exception of May or Kaysen voting “no”. Ma yor
Kaysen clarified he supported Safehouse but his reason for voting “no” was due to concern with the
length of the lease term.  (#5783)
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County, City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne
Board of Public Utilities, Chey enne/Laramie County Boa rd of He alth and Chey enne Re gional
Airport Board regarding the management of the Environmental Systems Research Institute (Esri)
Enterprise L icense for the Coope rative G eographic I nformation Sy stems (GI S) prog ram, a nd
authorizing the City of Cheyenne as a software user participant in the Multi-Jurisdictional Licensing
Agreement.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5784)
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a railroad quiet zone project at the 24 St./BNSF Crossing (2007 - 2010 1% Salesth
Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee
[CA] Contract Modifications No. 1, 2 and 3 to Contract No. 5740 between the City of Cheyenne,
Parks a nd Re creation De partment, a nd Ac ademy Spo rts T urf, L LC, f or a dditional su b s oil
replacement for the Pioneer Park Baseball Field-Infield Renovation Project (SLIB funding).  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $35,682.81). (#5740)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5776 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and E/S3 Consultants, Inc. for Energy Project Consulting Services. (Energy
Development fund).  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) carried (amount not to ex ceed $10,000.00).
(#5776)
Amendment Number Five to Contract No. 4968 between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Wy oming De partment of T ransportation (WYDOT) f or the re construction of
Pershing Boulevard from I-25 to Pioneer Avenue (2007 - 2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance
Committee.  Mayor Kaysen advised this item was r eviewed under othe r items for the a genda at
Finance Committee due to a specific deadline that needed to be met.  Mr. Valdez advised this item
was discussed under other items for the agenda at Finance Committee and provisions of Title 2 of
City Code had been met.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $1,962,777.00,
seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Doug Vetter, City Engineer, thanked Council members for hearing this
item under other business at the Finance Committee and explained the purpose of the amendment
is to adjust the amount of funding.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body. (#4968)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5726 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation D epartment, a nd Simo n Co ntractors, Che yenne, Wy oming, f or fe nce a lignment,
additional fill, crushed rock base and other changes for the East Cheyenne Greenway Phase IIIb
(UPRR Underpass) Project (Greenway 1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax funds) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Professional Services Contract No. 5624 between the City of Cheyenne
on behalf of the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization and AVI Professional Corporation
for the Fox Farm Road Corridor Plan, Phase II (MPO Federal Planning funds) -- referred to Finance
Committee.   
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-17-12 for furnishing one new 2011/2012 motor grader for the City
of Cheyenne, Sanitation and Landfill Divisions (State EPA Grant & Solid Waste Management fund).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (Honnen Equipment, Mills, WY,  in an amount not to exceed
$242,025.00).
Consideration of Bid #R-18-12 for f urnishing three new 2012 four whee l/all wheel drive
utility vehicles for the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue and Planning Departments  (2007 - 2010
1% Sales Tax and General fund).  M r. Valdez moved to accept the bid from Fremont Motors,
Lander, WY, in an amount not to exceed $64,265.23, seconde d by Mr. Pierson.  Motion failed.
Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body.
Appointment of Terrence Bell to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint
Powers Board. Mr. Collins moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” --  all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote
(Mayoral appointment).
Re-Appointments of Betsy Putnam, Ronn Jeffrey, Alfrieda Gonzales, Diane Lozano, Dr.
Richard Berry, Craig Jones, Ester Davison, William Long, Gus L opez, Ross McKelvey , Danny
Glick, Jeff Lamm, Rick Robinson and Gay VanHorn to the Laramie County Community Juvenile
Services Joint Powers Boa rd.  Mr. Allen move d to approve, seconded by Mr. Valde z.  Mot ion
carried.  Voting “yes” --  all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen
who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made that due to the Ne w Year’s Day holiday and City offices being
closed on Monday, January 2, 2012, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will
instead be held in the Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming,
as follows: Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, January 3, 2012 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services
Committee will meet Wednesday, January 4, 2012 at Noon. 
Announcement was made of Re-Appointment of Paul M. Frauendienst to the Building Code
Board of Appeals to be confirmed January 9, 2012.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 7:15  p.m.
 Submitted by,
Kristy B. Anderson, CMC
Deputy City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
January 9, 2012