MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-01-09 | CLIP_ID: 270 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 270

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
January 9, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
ELECTION OF CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENT FOR 2012.  Mayor Kaysen noted for the
record that, pursuant to City Code, he would be conducting the elections for City Council President
and Vice-President but would not be voting.   Mayor Kaysen stated nominations for election of the
office of Council President was in order.  Mr. Valdez moved to nominate and elect Mr. Collins as
City Council President for 2012, s econded by Mr. Pierson. Mr. B rown moved tha t nominations
cease, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion to cease nominations carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.  Mr. Collins advised
he is looking forward to serving as Council President for 2012 and noted there are many projects to
address during the upcoming year.  Motion to nominate and elect Mr. Collins carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.  
ELECTION OF CITY COUNCIL VICE-PRESIDENT FOR 2012.  Mayor Kaysen stated
nominations for election of the office of Council Vice-President was in order.  Mr. Collins moved
to n ominate a nd e lect Mr . Pi erson a s Ci ty Cou ncil V ice-President f or 20 12, s econded b y Ms.
Broyles.  Mr. Collins moved that nominations cease, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion to cease
nominations carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote.  Mr. Pierson advised he considered it an honor to serve as a part of Council
leadership.  Motion to nominate and elect Mr. Pierson carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.
On behalf of the governing body, Mayor Kaysen recognized outgoing 2011 Council President
Dr. Rinne, and presented him with an engraved gavel plaque.  He also expressed appreciation to Mr.
Brown for serving as Council Vice-President for 2011.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Collins and Mr. Brown, agenda items #15 and #18 were removed from the Consent Agenda.
Upon request by Mr. Pierson, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Collins  and Ms. Ash, agenda
item #22(a) was re moved from the Consent Ag enda.  Mr . Allen moved to appr ove remaining
Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 27, 2011.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and Radio Station KYOY F M respectively) and vacated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Spiker moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by
Mr. Allen.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to Ayres Associates for Lake Minnehaha
remediation, Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, provided an update on the project, which
involves DEQ grant funding.  Upon inquiry, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, reviewed a voucher payable
to A shley F urniture ($ 1,175.00) f or fu rniture fo r Y outh A lternatives Sp ecial F riends p rogram.
Comments followed whether this was an allowable expenditure under the CCLC Cohort grant used
to purchase the furniture.  Ms. Ash moved to divide the question to allow for a separate vote on the
voucher payable to Ashley Furniture, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Huff advised the
furniture ha s mo st l ikely a lready be en d elivered s ince the  vo ucher w as o n th e pa yables li st.
Comments followed regarding grant stipulations.  Dr. Rinne raised a point of order with regard to
the motion to divi de the que stion being non- debatable with Mayor Kaysen concurring that the
motion was non-debatable.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present in Council Chambers with the exception of Ms. Broyles and Mr. Pierson voting “no”.  Dr.
Rinne moved to approve payment of the voucher to Ashley Furniture, seconded by Mr. Collins.
Discussion followed regarding payment of the voucher and whether another funding source could
be utilized if it were ascertained that the furniture purchase did not qualify under grant requirements.
Ms. Huff clarified another funding source could be used to pay for the furniture and she could adjust
the payment source through a fund transfer.  Further comments followed regarding grant compliance.
Motion to approve payment of the voucher to Ashley Furniture carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to
Americoach of Cheyenne Charters LLC for chartering 2 buses for a Youth Alternatives activity,
which also utilized Cohort grant funding, Ms. Ash advised she ove rsees this grant as part of  her
employment d uties and stated it is an a llowable expense unde r the g rant.  Motion to approve
remaining vouchers for payment carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez returned
to Council Chambers.
Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated in
a portion of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 1, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the
6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located north of and adjacent to West Lincolnway
and east of and adja cent to the B NSF Railroad).  Reporting for Public Service s Committee, Mr.
Collins moved to approve  on third and final r eading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#3941)
Ordinance amending Chapter 5.08, Business License Fees, Section 5.08.010, Amusements,
of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the license
fee for conducting a theater business.  Re porting for Finance Committee, Mr. Valdez moved to
approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. (#3942)
Ordinance creating Section 10.52.240, Parking of Oversized Vehicles, Trailers, and Semi-
trailers in Residential and Mixed Use Districts, Prohibited, of Chapter 10.52, Stopping, Standing and
Parking generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Dr. Rinne stated there was no recommendation on the item
from the Committee.  As sponsor of the ordinance, Ms. Broyles expressed appreciation to the public,
council and staff who had provided input on the proposed ordinance, indicating she plans to continue
working on the topic to bring forward proposed changes, and requested the ordinance be withdrawn
from the agenda.  Upon query by Mayor Kaysen and with no objections being raised by City Council
members, Mayor Kaysen announced the item was being withdrawn from the agenda.
Ordinance re pealing Ordinanc e No. 3408, as ame nded, which a dopted the “Che yenne-
Laramie County Subdivision/Development Regulations 2000,” and repealing Ordinance No. 3720,
as amended, which a dopted the “2006 Roa d, Street, and Site Planning  Design Standards,” a nd
repealing Title 17, Zo ning, of the Cheyenne City Code 2002, in its entirety , and adopting  the
“Cheyenne Un ified D evelopment Co de,” wh ich is  a ttached h ereto a s E xhibit A  a nd fu lly
incorporated herein by reference.  Donn Edmunds commented on the availability of the document
proposed for approval.  Paul Fr auendienst, member of the committee involved in re viewing and
providing input on the proposed Unified Development Code, spoke in support of the revised code.
He stated the code will provide a new framework to build Cheyenne and that modifications may be
required as plans move forward.  He provided information on an annual review process that will be
in place, stating the Critical Path Committee has some recommendations for future consideration,
and noted committee members who helped review and draft the document.  Mr. Collins moved to
approve on second reading with UDC Amendments A1 through A6, UDC proof- read corrections,
and an ordinance effective date of April 1, 2012, seconded by Ms. Broyles. Comments followed
regarding interpretation of the new code and the desire to be more business friendly, size of signs
posted on property sites advising the public of pending development or redevelopment plans, and
the annual code review process.  Upon inquiry, Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development
Director, provided information on sign notification requirements posted for public awareness and
stated staff  is resea rching and eva luating the public communication proc ess to provide more
information through electronic means (on-line a ccessibility) on deve lopment projects.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Resolution designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds.  Mr. Collins and Mr.
Spiker ea ch dec lared a c onflict of intere st (board me mber a ffiliation with cer tain financ ial
institutions) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Collins and Mr. Spiker returned to Council Chambers.
(#5343)
Resolution designating the Sundays during 2012 that annual l iquor licensees may extend
dispensing room hours of operation for sales until 2:00 A.M. the following day.  Bryan Grzegorczyk,
President, Laramie County Liquor Association, spoke in support of the  resolution and provided
information on the Association’s close communication with local law enforcement on drinking and
driving preve ntion effor ts, noting the Assoc iation’s taxi  ride for  patrons prog ram a nd the
Association’s various fund raisers and charity work benefitting the community.  Mr. Valdez stated
there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Collins moved to adopt,
seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Grzegorczyk reviewed the dates of the four Sundays in 2012 being
requested, which are Feb. 5 (Super Bowl Sunday), July 22 (first Sunday of Frontier Days), Sept. 2
(Sunday of L abor D ay wee kend) a nd Dec . 16 (holiday  parties)  and stat ed the Assoc iation’s
membership voted on the proposed dates.  Upon inquiry whether there was any data reflecting DUI
offenses for the Sunday hours approved for 2011, Mr. Grzeg orczyk advised he did not have any
specific statistics but t hat overall DUI’s are down by about 33% a nd Brian Kozak, Police Chief,
advised he would provide DUI information for the past year to members of the governing body.
Comment f ollowed in o pposition to t he le gislation a llowing fo r e xtension o f S unday ho urs.
Appreciation was expressed to Mr. Grzegorczyk for his assistance involving a recent tragedy in the
community.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception
of Mr. Pierson and Mr. Spiker voting “no”. (#5344)
 
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute the a ttached Business Ready
Community Grant and Loan Program Grant Agreement between the Wyoming Business Council and
the City of Cheyenne to assist in making pedestrian and streetscape improvements to  W est
Lincolnway, West 17  Street, Thomes Avenue and Pioneer Avenue adjacent to Block 392, Originalth
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. V aldez moved to adopt, sec onded by Mr. Allen.  Discussion
followed regarding potential funding and grant availability to complete improvements on 17  Street.th
Upon inquiry , Matt Ashby , P lanning Ser vices Dire ctor, a dvised staff a nd the Downtown
Development Authority  (DDA ) ar e wor king tog ether to identify potential source s to fund the
remaining area.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5345)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a State Historic Preservation
Office Certified Local Government Grant Agreement for a ttendance at the 2012 Saving Places
Conference ( State H istoric Pr eservation O ffice g rant).  M otion ( per Co nsent A genda) c arried.
(#5346)
 
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a State H istoric Preservation
Office Certified Local Government Grant Agreement for historic building analysis and case studies
of historic buildin gs (State Historic Pre servation Office grant).  Motion (pe r Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#5347)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a State Historic Preservation
Office Certified Local Government Grant Agreement for an International Code Council Class on
building codes and historic buildings (State Historic Preservation Office grant).  Mr. Valdez moved
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Discussion followed on comments that had been received from
some property owners expressing difficulty with current building code requirements relative to
redevelopment efforts involving historic downtown buildings, and that the codes sometimes are not
conducive to historic building re development projects.  Upon inquiry , Matt Ashby , Planning
Services Director, stated the training, which will be available to the building inspectors and property
owners of historic buildings, can assist in creating a better environment of understanding between
the parties on code pr ovisions to help facilitate redevelopment of historic buildings.  F ollowing
further comment regarding conflicts with codes and redevelopment of historic building efforts,
particularly in the downtown area, motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body. (#5348)
Resolution determining and prioritizing City of Cheyenne projects to be proposed to the 1%
Specific Purpose Sales Tax Committee for potential inclusion on t he 1% Specific Purpose ballot
proposition to be presente d to qualified ele ctors of Lara mie County during the August 21, 2012
primary e lection.  Do nn Ed munds, s peaking on behalf of  a  g roup of  e astern L aramie Cou nty
residents, commented on the proposed Christensen Road Overpass project, noting a petition had been
submitted to WYDOT and expressing concerns with the project specific to the Pershing Blvd. area.
Lynn Simons, speaking on behalf of the Friends of the Botanic Gardens Foundation, provided a brief
review of the age of the current facility and the need for improvements and past history of 6  pennyth
Botanic Gardens funding requests, and noted private donations have assisted toward many site
improvements.  John Palmer questioned the pending projects list, expressing concerns with lack of
the landfill expansion project being included; commented on “needs vs. wants” and stated a concrete
plan nee ds to be deter mined prior to submitti ng the ballot question to voters.  May or Ka ysen
confirmed proposed projects being considered would be addressed pursuant to the report from the
Committee of the Whole.  Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Dr. Rinne moved to  adopt,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  It was
noted the proposed substitute resolution does not provide for prioritization of any project (i.e.  no
items assigne d a priority  number), a nd cont ains the following  proposed pr ojects and f unding
amounts: L ower C apitol Basin L ife-Safety Pub lic I mprovements ($ 4,800,000.00); L andfill
equipment ( $3,000,000.00); Pu blic Sa fety B uilding ($ 25,000,000.00); Ch ristensen O verpass
($1,500,000.00); Ae rial F ire Tr uck Gr ant Match ($600,000.00) ; Municipal Pool R epair and
Renovation ($5,000,000.00); Gr eenway Construction ($2,800,000.0 0); Bota nic Gar dens
Construction (new conservatory) ($16,000,000.00); Recreation Center ($33,000,000.00), and new
Airport Terminal ($4,831,157.00), for a total amount of $96,531,157.00.  Speaking on the proposed
substitute were: Jo hn Palmer, expressing concern with a new recreation center and supporting
inclusion of a landfill expansion project on the projects listing; Kevin Paintner, referencing past
information that had been provided on a proposed rec center and commenting in support of a rec
center, submitting information (on file with City Clerk’s office) and citing cost recovery comparables
for other communities that have built rec  centers; Donn Edmunds, encour aging consideration of
other projects and total dollar amounts being requested by the county and outlying towns and stating
his belief the resolution is premature at this time; John Volk, speaking in support of the 6  pennyth
ballot process and the importance of compromising and working together with the other county
governmental entities on proposed proje cts; Matt Pope, Rec Center  projec t gr oup, ex pressing
appreciation for the  opportunity to communicate ne eds and w ants to better the c ommunity and
commenting on the cost recovery issue, noting a lot of parks and recreation areas are subsidized, and
Morgan Burke, speaking in support of a rec center, noting the lack of available facilities to practice
youth basketball and benefits overall of a facility for youth activities.  During comments, Mayor
Kaysen and Mr. Collins reviewed the Specific Purpose Committee proce ss and the Committ ee’s
upcoming meeting schedule respectively.  Mayor Kaysen confirmed that another resolution would
be proposed at a future meeting with regard to projects and funding amounts for all of the county
governmental entities involved (i.e. L aramie County, Cheyenne, Albin, Burns, Pine B luffs), and
explained the necessary approval process by the entities for a ballot question(s) to be presented to
voters.  Mr. Brown moved to amend the proposed substitute by removing $1,000,000.00 from the
funding amount for the Botanic Gardens project (reducing from $16,000,000.00 to $15,000,000.00)
and adding the 17  Street Pedestrian Lighting and Beautification project in the funding amount ofth
$1,000,000.00, seconded by Mr. Collins.  M r. Spiker dec lared a conf lict of interest (ow ner of
property located on 17  Street) and vacated Council Chambers.  Pursuant to comment by Barbarath
Stafford, Board member, Friends of the Botanic Gardens, it was verified that the proposed funding
amount, p er the pending amendme nt, for the B otanic Ga rdens Conser vatory projec t would be
$15,000,000.00.  John Sundahl, Board President, Downtown Development Authority, referenced
previous information that had been pr ovided in support  of the 17  Street project, noting he w asth
available to answer any questions.  Comments followed with regard to clarification of the proposed
amendment and lack of prioritization of projects as contained in the proposed substitute.  Mr. Pierson
raised a point of order that comments regarding prioritization were not applicable to the motion on
the floor with Mayor Kaysen ruling comments should be germane to the motion on the floor, which
is the motion to amend as moved by Mr. Brown and seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion to amend the
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.
Following announ cement of the vote, Mr . Spiker retur ned to Council Chambers.  Discussion
followed and included the following topics: Support as well as non-support for prioritizing City
projects; Specific Purpose Committee meeting schedule; the Committee’s preferred sales tax revenue
collection time frame (approximately 5 years) and total amount to present to voters, including the
estimated amount of $55 to $57 million dollars for City projects; providing an opportunity for voters
to decide which projects should be funded; importance of communication of City supported projects
to Specific Purpose Committee members, and verification that the proposed substitute to be voted
upon was the one recommended at the Committee of the Whole meeting, as amended at the current
meeting.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend the substitute, as previously amended, by removing the term
“non-” befor e the word “pr ioritized” a s ref erenced in the r esolution, seconded by  Mr. Allen.
Speaking on the proposed amendment were: Matt Pope, commenting on the Rec Center committee’s
work over the past months and supporting input from the public on a new rec center, and questioning
how the order of listing of projects in the resolution were developed; Brian Tyrrell, commenting that
every project is a priority  and one should not take  precedence over another; Dave Cook, stating
concern that the issue of prioritization had not previously been fully discussed, and requesting the
governing body not prioritize projects and proposing a menu-style ballot question be submitted to
voters; Christina Mayle, questioning what the priority list would be, and Tom Toft, commenting in
support of the rec center not being culled from the list and affording people the chance to vote on
projects.  Mayor Kaysen advised, if the motion to amend carried, the projects would be prioritized
as follows (re: as listed in the previously approved substitute resolution as amended at the current
meeting): Lower Capitol Basin; Landfill Equipment; Public Safety Building; Christensen Overpass
Planning; Aerial Fir e Truc k Gra nt Match; Municipal Pool Repair and Renova tion; Greenw ay
Construction; Botani c Gardens construc tion of new c onservatory; Recre ation Center; Airpor t
Terminal and 17  Street Pedestrian Lighting and Beautification.  F ollowing a 10 minute recess,th
Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:15 p.m.  Motion to amend by removing the term “non-”
before the word “prioritized” failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body.  Motion to
amend by substitute resolution, as previously amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms.
Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Ash, Mr.
Brown, Mr. Collins and Dr. Rinne.  Main motion as amended by substitute, as amended, carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5349)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for A & M
Subdivision, 2  Filing, a replat of Lot 1, Block One, A & M Subdivision, Laramie C ounty,nd
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. Greeley Highway, south of Prosser Road) -- referred
to Public Services Committee. 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Gateway South, 3  Filing, a replat of Lots 1, 2, 4 and 5, Block One,rd
Gateway South, 2  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the  intersectionnd
of W. Fox Farm Road and Walterscheid Boulevard) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a railroad quiet zone project at the 24  St./BNSF Crossing (2007 - 2010 1% Salesth
Tax).  Doug Vetter, City Engineer, clarified this is a cooperative agreement for grant assistance from
the State through WYDOT and the City’s share would be approximately $20,000, funded through
the 1%  street renovations budget line item.  He explained the project would reconfigure the railroad
crossing by placing raised medians in the center of the street as a safety improvement, eliminating
a current potential vehicular crossing hazard.  Mr. V aldez moved to approve , seconded by Mr.
Spiker.  Concern was raised regarding utilization of 1% street renovation money relative to other
necessary road improvements.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
with the exception of Ms. Ash, Mr. Pierson and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#5785)
[CA] Contract betw een the City of Cheyenne and the United States Department of Homeland
Security for a  g rant in the a mount of $100,000.00 for the City  of Chey enne F ire and Rescue
Hazardous Materials Response Team and Regional Emergency Response Team # 7 -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Coca-Cola
North America, Atlanta, GA, for a Sprite  Parks Project grant in the amount of $20,000.00 for the®
refurbishment of the Holliday Park basketball courts -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between  the City of Chey enne and the 37  Helicopterth
Squadron of the U nited States Air For ce for use of  the B elvoir Ranch for helicopter training --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5726 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation D epartment, a nd Simo n Co ntractors, Che yenne, Wy oming, f or fe nce a lignment,
additional fill, crushed rock base and other changes for the East Cheyenne Greenway Phase IIIb
(UPRR Underpass) Project (Greenway 1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax funds).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $9,600.00). (#5726)
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Professional Services Contract No. 5624 between the City of Cheyenne
on behalf of the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization and AVI Professional Corporation
for the Fox Farm Road Corridor Plan, Phase II (MPO Federal Planning funds).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount of $87,205.00). (#5624)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-8-12 for a contract for the Pioneer Park Baseball Lighting project
between the Cit y of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation De partment, a nd Superior Elec tric &
Communications, Cheyenne, WY (State Loan and Investment Board funds) -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA] Application for a Microbrewery Permit filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Freedoms Edge
Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Freedoms Edge Brewing Co., 301 W. 16th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Application for a  Microbrewery Permit app lication filed with the City  Clerk's Office for
Freedoms Edg e B rewing 2, L LC d/b/a Fre edoms Edg e B rewing Co., 1509 Pioneer  Avenue ,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Re-Appointment of Paul M. Fr auendienst to the B uilding Code B oard of Appeals.  Mr.
Collins moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --  all members
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King, J r. Holiday on Monday,
January 16, 2012, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the
Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance
Committee will meet Tuesday, January 17, 2012 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will
meet Wednesday, January 18, 2012 at Noon. 
John Palmer questioned the 1% (6  penney) Specific Purpose Sales Tax Committee meetingth
place and time to be held on January  16  and whe ther this would be a public me eting.  May orth
Kaysen advised the meeting is scheduled for 5:30 p.m. at the Align Building located on the Airport
Parkway, and stated his understanding that the meeting was open to the public but that no public
comment would be take n.  Mr. Palmer e xpressed his concerns regarding the public pa rticipation
process at governing body meetings involving agenda items.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 8:28  p.m.
 Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
January 20, 2012