MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-01-23 | CLIP_ID: 272 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 272

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
January 23, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Brown moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on J anuary 9, 2012. Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Council Chambers.  Mr. Va ldez move d to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
Ordinance re pealing Ordinanc e No. 3408, as amended, which adopte d the “Chey enne-
Laramie County Subdivision/Development Regulations 2000,” and repealing Ordinance No. 3720,
as amended, which a dopted the “2006 Roa d, Street, and Site Planning  Design Standards,” a nd
repealing Title 17, Z oning, of the Cheyenne City Code 2002, in its entirety , and adopting  the
“Cheyenne Un ified D evelopment Cod e,” wh ich is  a ttached h ereto a s E xhibit A  a nd fu lly
incorporated herein by reference.  Report ing for Pu blic Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Ms. Ash moved to amend the effective
date of the Unified Development Code (UDC) from April 3, 2012 to April 30, 2012, seconded by
Mr. Allen.  B randon Cammarata, Planning and De velopment Director, advised the a mendment
addresses questions and concerns raised at the Public Services Committee and explained reasons
why an effective date of April 30, 2012 was being proposed relative to timing issues and procedures
for certain applications (i.e. preliminary and final plats; site plans, etc.) involving current  vs. new
UDC regulations.  Upon inquiry  regarding availability of the UD C document to the public, Mr.
Cammarata stated the document has been available electronically through the City’s website and on
CDs throughout the Council process, and indicated that when the document is finalized incorporating
the amendments (approved at the January 9, 2012 City Council meeting), the final version will be
available electronically on the City’s website and through the Planning and Development Office, and
that hard copies will be available for purchase.  Question was raised regarding the motion on the
floor, wh ich is  a n a mendment t o c hange the  UD C e ffective da te to  April 30 , 2 012, a nd no t a
proposed substitute as reviewed by Mr. Cammarata during his remarks, which includes an effective
date of April 30, 2012.  Mr. Pierso n offered a friendly amendment to the motion on the floor by
clarifying the motion is to amend by substitute dated Jan. 23, 2012, with Ms. Ash, as maker of the
initial motion to amend, accepting the friendly amendment.  No objection to the friendly amendment
was raised by other membe rs of the g overning body.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Cammara ta reviewed
proposed language in the substitute ordinance contained in Section 5 which reads as follows: “This
ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication, but no earlier than April
30, 2012, provided however, that an application for approval of a final plat, if filed after April 30,
2012, shall not be subject to this ordinance if (1) the application is filed within eighteen (18) months
following acknowledgment, by the governing body, of receipt of the related preliminary plat, and (2)
the application requesting that the governing body acknowledge receipt of the related preliminary
plat was filed prior to April 30, 2012.”  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.  Following announcement of the vote, Mayor Kaysen thanked
members of the community who served on the committee and staff for their time and efforts in
preparing and finalizing the UDC, and noted the UDC has an annual review provision that will
provide for continuing improvements. (#3943)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for A & M
Subdivision, 2  F iling, a  r eplat o f Lot 1, B lock O ne, A  &  M  S ubdivision, L aramie C ounty,nd
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. Greeley Highway, south of Prosser Road).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5350)
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant
(Chapter 3) application to the St ate Loan and Investment Board for the East Pershing Boulevard
Sanitary Sewer project from Dunn Avenue to Converse Avenue -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant
(Chapter 3) applica tion to the St ate Loan and I nvestment Board for the Street an d Alley Road
Maintenance Facility Addition Project, Phase I -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Brown).
[CA] Resolution prioritiz ing the  City  of Chey enne’s two applications to the S tate L oan and
Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne for Mineral Royalty
Capital Construction Account (Chapter 3) funds -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Brown).
[CA] Resolution approving an Outside User Sanitary Sewer Services Agreement with Ty son
Garrett, owner of Lot 6, Block 1, Lindrom Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Pierson and Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Resolution declaring as surplus the City-owned property located at 2100 Pioneer Avenue,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, commonly referred to as the City  of Chey enne Board of Public Utili ties
Administration building, together with all improvements thereon, and authorizing the Director of the
Board of Public Utilities and the City’s Purchasing Director to proceed with proposed sale of said
property pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §15-1-112 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Pierson).
 
 Preliminary Plat for Gateway South, 3  Filing, a replat of Lots 1, 2, 4 and 5, Block One,rd
Gateway South, 2  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the  intersectionnd
of W. Fox Farm Road and Walterscheid Boulevard).  James Perrott Macneil spoke in opposition to
the preliminary plat and any zon ing changes or development o n the land.  M s. Ash moved to
acknowledge receipt with staff recommendations #1 through 5, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Contract between the City  of Chey enne and the United States Department of Homeland
Security for a  g rant in the a mount of $100,000.00 for the City  of C heyenne F ire a nd Rescue
Hazardous Materials Response Team and Regional Emergency Response Team # 7.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5790) 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Coca-Cola
North America, Atlanta, GA, for a Sprite  Parks Project grant in the amount of $20,000.00 for the®
refurbishment o f the Holliday  Park baske tball courts.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried.
(#5791)
Memorandum of Understanding between the City  of Chey enne and the 37  Helicopterth
Squadron of the United States Air Force for use of the Belvoir Ranch for helicopter training.  James
Perrott Macneil made comments in opposition to opening up the Belvoir Ranch for purposes of the
proposed Memorandum of Understanding or for any other use.  Reporting for Finance Committee,
Mr. Brown moved to a pprove, seconded by Mr. Valde z.  Mr. Brown, se conded by Mr. Pierson,
moved to  amend page 2, Section B, by inserting a new subsection h. to read as follows:  “ The
Government understands and agrees that helicopter landing areas may be restricted or curtailed by
the Owner in order to avoid conflicts with wind data collection and/or environmental assessments
which may be occurring on the Belvoir Ranch.  The Owner agrees to provide the Government with
maps, grid coordinates or legal descriptions indicating landing areas being impacted by on going
studies.”.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5792)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the
Town of Pine Bluffs, Police Department, for law enforcement assistance within the jurisdiction of
the Town of Pine Bluffs, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement f or J uvenile Com pliance a nd Di version Of ficer S ervices b etween L aramie
County, the City of Cheyenne, and the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers
Board for alternatives to juvenile detention, and improve monitoring of juvenile detention facilities --
referred to Finance Committee.  

[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City  of Chey enne, Police D epartment, and
Homeland Security Investigations, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, for reimbursement of
certain overtime and other law enforcement expenses related to joint operations -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Grant Awar d Agr eement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Police D epartment, and the
Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for Law Enforcement and Terrorism Prevention activities --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 5566, Juvenile Housing Agreement, between the City of
Cheyenne and Southeast Wyoming Juvenile Services, LLC, to extend the agreement  term for an
additional six months -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-8-12 for a contract for the Pioneer Park Baseball Lighting project
between the City  of Chey enne, Parks and Rec reation Depar tment, and Superior Ele ctric &
Communications, Cheyenne, WY (State Loan and Investment Board funds).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $159,000.00). (#5793)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-6-12 for a contract for the Lions Park Remediation project between
the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Scotch Boy, Inc., Cheyenne, WY --
referred to Finance Committee.
   
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-9-12 for  a contr act for the Power s Field S torage Shed proje ct
between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Construction Specialists, Inc.,
Cheyenne, WY -- referred to Finance Committee.
   
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-22-12 for furnishing 3 SUV's for the Fire and Rescue and Planning
Departments from Sheridan Motor, Sheridan, WY (2007 - 2010 1% Sales Tax and General Fund) --
referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of Appointments of Anne Picot, JoAnne Weigand and Clayton W.
Long to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed February 13, 2012.
Under Other Business:
City Clerk Carol I ntlekofer advised ther e will no t be a City  Council Publ ic Service s
Committee meeting on Tuesday, February 7, 2012 at Noon, Room 122, Municipal Building, as there
are no pending or referred items for the agenda requiring a meeting.
Major Dorr informed those present that a public meeting would be held Tuesday, Jan. 31,
2012 at 6:30 p.m. at the First Baptist Church regarding the topic of school bullying.
Larry Proietti, local business owner, expressed concerns with local fire inspections and code
requirements involving restaurants, and the resulting cost to businesses to meet current hood and
electrical system upgrade requirements.  Comments followed regarding costs to the businesses which
could make them lose their business.  Upon inquiry , Jon Narva, Division Chief, Fire and Rescue
Department, provided infor mation on the chang e to national fire p rotection rules reg arding
acceptable hood fire extinguishing agents for systems; explained problems being encountered with
older systems relative to the unavailability of contractors who can provide maintenance service for
the systems as manufacturers have moved away from the older system types due to f ire safety
concerns; clarified he is not aware of any national association funding assistance to assist business
owners with replace ment sy stem expenses, and re viewed the  inspection proce ss, including
inspections involving vacant buildings and those owned by non-local persons, and the requirement
of having viable fire extinguishing agents in hood systems.  He stated that most restaurants in town
are up to code and that the department works with affected businesses on time frames in which to
implement an upgraded system.  He discussed jurisdictional enforcement of the International Fire
Code 2006 edition currently in effect, which was adopted by the City of Cheyenne, and noted the
International family of codes are developed to be model codes to meet community needs throughout
the country.  James Perrott Macneil commented that old buildings should be “grandfathered” under
previous codes and replacement of systems shouldn’t be required if it meant putting people out of
business.
Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, provided information on research staff is
conducting relative to funding, including the possibility of bonding, the landfill expansion project;
explained the different design and construction phases that will be involved, and responded to
inquiry regarding sanitation rates, noting a possible effect on customer rates if funding would be
through issuance of bonds.  He explained staff needs time to explore funding options and evaluate
costs and projections prior to s ubmitting to C ouncil, and stated a future work session with City
Council would be held to present funding options.  He discussed the amount of the City’s current
bonding capacity and advised since the proposed funding of the project through the 6  penny ballotth
process was “off the table”, they need to explore different funding sources.  Upon inquiry regarding
costs currently being incurred to transport solid waste to Alt, CO, Mr. Elias advised the ultimate goal
is to use that funding to help offset costs.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 6:47  p.m.
 Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
February 6, 2012