MEETING: Special Meeting of the Governing Body | DATE: 2012-02-02 | CLIP_ID: 274 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 274

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
February 2, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in a special meeting on this date beginning
at 8:30 p.m. in Council Chambers for the purpose of acting upon a Resolution repealing Resolution
No. 5349 and de termining and prioritizing City  of Chey enne projects to be propose d to the 1%
Specific Purpose Sales Tax Committee for potential inclusion on the 1% Specific Purpose ballot
proposition to be presented to qualified electors of Laramie County during the August 21, 2012
primary election.  Those present were:  MAYOR: Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr.
Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr.
Valdez.  Also present were: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White,
City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
A Resolution repe aling Resolution No. 5349 and deter mining and pr ioritizing City  of
Cheyenne projects to be proposed to the 1% Spec ific Purpose Sales Tax Committee for potential
inclusion on the 1% Spec ific Purpose ba llot proposition to be pre sented to qualified e lectors of
Laramie County during the August 21, 2012 primary election – referred to Committee of the Whole
(sponsor - Mr. Collins).  Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Mr. Collins stated the item was
reviewed at a special meeting of the Committee of the Whole on Feb. 2, 2012 beginning at 6:00 p.m.,
and provisions of Title 2 of  City Code had been met.  Mr. Collins moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.
Brown.  Jam es Perrott Macneil s poke in o pposition to t he resolution and ballot proposition in
general; Bebe Molway spoke in favor of allowing voters to decide what projects they wished to fund;
Barbara Laybourn spoke in support of funding for the Greenway being included as a ballot question,
and Lynn Simons, Chair, Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Foundation, thanked members of the governing
body for inclusion of the Botanic Gardens conservatory in the project list.  Rick Parish, Parks and
Recreation Director, encouraged consideration of continuing the funding investment in the Greenway
through inclusion on the City’s project list.  Mr. Collins, seconded by Mr. Pierson, moved to amend
by adding an additional paragraph immediately after the words “Total $57,000,000” as follows:  “It
is further resolved that the 1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax Committee add the Recreation Center to
the 1% Specific Purpose Sales tax ballot proposition as a stand-alone County-wide project, in the
amount of $33,000,000.00, subject to the c ondition that no revenues collected from the 2012 1%
Specific Purpose Sales tax shall be allocated to the Recreation Center until all approved 2012 1%
Specific Purpose projects have been fully funded.”  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of  the g overning body.  For  the re cord, Dr. Rinne stated his conce rns re garding the
Christensen Overpass Planning pr oject, noting the overpass location is partially  in the City  and
partially in the County; potential “ballooning” project costs, and what entity would be ultimately
responsible for the overpass (City vs. County) following completion.  Di scussion included cost
sharing of the Christensen project with the County; and possible alternative funding sources for the
Greenway.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Purpose of the special meeting having been met, Mayor Kaysen adjourned the meeting at
8:50 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 February 9, 2012
