MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-02-13 | CLIP_ID: 277 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 277

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
February 13, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Ms. Ash, and pursuant to support received by Dr.
Rinne and Mr. Collins, ag enda item #14 wa s removed from the Consent Ag enda.  Mr . Collins
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 23, 2012. Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Special Me eting of the Gove rning Body on February 2, 2012. Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to R adio
Station KYOY) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, sec onded by Mr. B rown.  Upon inquiry  regarding a vouche r payable to Wy oming
Network, website hosting fee (Belvoir Ranch website), Jim Elias, Public Works Director, responded
the site was implemented by the Planning Department and that de partment pays the hosting f ee.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Valdez returned to Council Chambers.
Public Hearing to receive input and comments regarding the intent of the City of Cheyenne
to submit  an application for funding  to the Wy oming B usiness Council’s Business Rea dy
Community, Co mmunity En hancement G rant p rogram, t o a ssist i n th e c ompletion o f t he Pol k
Avenue Greenway segment.  Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager, reviewed the 1/4 mile proposed
Greenway path to be located along Polk Ave. between Highway 30 and Pershing Blvd. that will
connect t wo sec tions of the pathway  sy stem for c ontinuity and explained provisions of g rant
application requirements.  She advised the project’s cost is estimated at $500,000 and the grant
request will be for $250,000 with a re quired City match of $250,000, which will be funded from
current 6  penny sales tax.  Teresa Moore, Planning Manager, Parks and Recreation Department,th
displayed a map depicting the proposed pathway segment and, upon inquiry, provided information
regarding potential future pathway extension east of the area.  There being no further comments or
input and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established, and
Section 17.08.040, Chey enne City Map, of the Che yenne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from P Public District to HR-2 High Density Residential-Developing District for Lot
1, Block 1, The Pointe, Sixth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Dorothy
Lane, west of Powderhouse Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant
(Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the East Pershing Boulevard
Sanitary Sewer project from Dunn Ave nue to Converse Avenue.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#5352)
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant
(Chapter 3) applica tion to th e State Loan and I nvestment Board for the Street a nd Alley Road
Maintenance Facility Addition Project, Phase I.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5353)
[CA] Resolution prioriti zing the City  of Chey enne’s two applications to the State L oan and
Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne for Mineral Royalty
Capital Construction Account (Chapter 3) funds.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5354)
[CA] Resolution approving an Outside Use r Sanitary Sewer Services Agreement with Ty son
Garrett, owner of Lot 6, Block 1, Lindrom Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5355)
 Resolution declaring as surplus the City-owned property located at 2100 Pioneer Avenue,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, commonly referred to as the City  of Chey enne Board of Public Utili ties
Administration building, together with all improvements thereon, and authorizing the Director of the
Board of Public Utilities and the City’s Purchasing Director to proceed with proposed sale of said
property pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §15-1-112.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved
to adopt, seconde d by Mr. Spiker.  Discussion followed r egarding whether Cheyenne Housing
Authority had expressed an interest in the building; if the property could be transferred to another
City entity, and Board of Public Utilities’ (BOPU) intended use of property sales revenue toward
debt incurred for the new a dministration building being constructed.  Dur ing discussion, Mayor
Kaysen clarified for the record that Tim Wilson, BOPU Executive Director, acknowledged from the
audience that no recent feedback or inquiry from the Housing Authority had been received.  Upon
inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised it appears the City does have the authority to make a
donation to the Cheyenne Housing Authority if the governing body so desired, and that the governing
body would have the option of rejecting all bids if it were decided to donate the land after declaring
the property as surplus and a ccepting bids.  F urther comments f ollowed on the intere st in the
property expressed by Mike Stanfield, Cheyenne Housing Authority, relative to construction of a
new Senior Center involving the site as it is near the current Center.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Wilson,
clarified the BOPU has been planning on selling the property and using the funds received to help
pay down the debt on the ne w administration building, and a dvised there has not been a  recent
appraisal of the prope rty, commenting on the estimated va lue of the building several years ago.
Upon further inquiry whether loss of property sales revenue to BOPU could affect water and sewer
users’ rates, Mr. Wilson responded the impact on water rates would not be as significant as an effect
on the sewer enterprise fund.  Following further discussion, Dr. Rinne moved to postpone for  2
weeks (to Fe b. 27, 2012), se conded by  Ms. Ash.  Comments followed reg arding support for
protecting citizens’ water and sewer user rates, and whe ther Cheyenne Housing Authority had
funding available to remodel t he building if it was donated to them.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Wils on
provided information on his past conversation with Mr. Stanfield, noting it had been quite awhile
ago.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Resolution increasing the level of funding placed into the Solid Waste Management fund for
the specific purpose of providing funding to pay for increased professional services costs and solid
waste tipping fees, increased recycling costs, and increased costs for the lease/purchase of solid
waste equipment -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2012 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. 16-4-112 & 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Brown).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for Country
Homes Subdivision, 3rd Filing, a replat of Lot 4, Block 5, Country Homes Subdivision, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located east of Cedar Avenue, between Grape and Peach Streets) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for WYODI GS
Properties Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a r eplat of L ots 2 & 4, B lock 4, Campstool Addition, Thi rd
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Trucker Trail and Industry Court, west of the KOA
Campground)-- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash). 
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for Prairie
Dog Alley Subdivision, a replat of the north half of Tract 38, Dell Range Addition, Third Filing,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Summit Drive, east of Braehill Road) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution a uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd the  City  Cle rk to s ign a  F inal Pla t f or Riv ett
Subdivision, a portion of the NE1/4 of Section 1, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located north of and adjacent to West Lincolnway, east of Westland Road)-- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution granting an exception for development of a temporary small wastewater system
pursuant to the “201 Agreement” for property described as a tract of land in N1/2N1/2NE1/4NE1/4
of Section 11, Township 13 North, Range 67 West, of the 6th P.M. (a/k/a 4121 West 5th St reet),
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution granting an exception for development of a small wastewater system pursuant to
the “201 Agreement” for property described as a portion of Tract 1, Lincoln Valley Tracts, Section
36, Township 14 North, Range 66 West, of the 6th P.M. (a/k/a 6509 Tate Road), Cheyenne, Laramie
County, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash). 
[CA] Resolution a uthorizing the  su bmission of  a  B usiness R eady Com munity, Co mmunity
Enhancement Grant application to the Wyoming Business Council on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for completion of the Polk Avenue Greenway segment -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins). 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the
Town of Pine Bluffs, Police Department, for law enforcement assistance within the jurisdiction of
the Town of Pine Bluffs, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5796)
[CA] Agreement f or Juve nile Com pliance a nd Di version Of ficer S ervices b etween L aramie
County, the City of Cheyenne, and the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers
Board for alternatives to juvenile detention, and improve monitoring of juvenile detention.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5797)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City  of Chey enne, Police D epartment, and
Homeland Security Investigations, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, for reimbursement of
certain overtime a nd other law  enforcement expenses r elated to joint operations.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5798)
[CA] Grant Awar d Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Police D epartment, and the
Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for Law Enforcement and Terrorism Prevention activities.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5799)
[CA] Wyoming Chi ldren’s Trust Fund Grant Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth
Alternatives, Special Friends, and Wyoming Department of Family Services, Protective Services
Division, to provide Outreach Mentoring Program services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 5566, Juvenile Housing Agreement, between the City of
Cheyenne and Southeast Wyoming Juvenile Services, LLC, to extend the agreement term for an
additional six months.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5566)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5776 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and E/S3 Consultants, Inc. for Energy Project Consulting Services (Energy
Development fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5377 between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation
Division, and Alpine Waste and Recycling for sorting, processing and marketing of single stream
(recyclable) materials -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Consideration of Bid #M-6-12 for a contract for the Lions Park Remediation project between
the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Scotch Boy, Inc., Cheyenne, WY.  Mr.
Brown moved to re ject all bids, seconde d by Mr. Spiker.  I t was cla rified that all bids  received
exceeded the engineer’s estimate of $150,000 for the project.  Upon inquiry, Rick Parish, Parks and
Recreation Director, advised available funding is in the amount of $123,000, explaining so me
funding has alre ady been use d for de signers and landscape architects.  May or Kaysen advised
community partners who had expressed an intent in providing funding assistance are still committed
to securing  $40,000 tow ard the project and that $10,000 has be en provide d to the City  from
Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power. Comments followed regarding the decision to cut down trees in
Lions Park for airport flight safety reasons and the need for the City to remediate the area as the
public expects.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Parish provided information on the scope of work for the project
and elements involving redesign of the scope of work due to consultants’ estimate of rock quantities
needed and the high bids received, resulting in new bid specifications being prepared to advertise
for re-bidding to meet the funding amount available.  He stated the redesign removes rock walkways
and reduces the number of trees to be planted, and reviewed meetings held for public comments
involving the original design, advising they did not go back out for public comment on the redesign
as it had bee n planned to timely  plant the new tr ees dur ing the  upcoming spring  season.  He
expressed support for  moving f orward with re- bidding f or the re designed proje ct base d upon
available funding, stating more trees and amenities could be added in the future when funding may
be available, and noted that often times  initial project designs have to be scaled back due to costs.
Upon quer y, he conf irmed th e lowest bid rec eived wa s over the e ngineer’s estimate by  about
$170,000.  Discussion included the following topics:  Project funding availability; expectation of the
public regarding sc ope of the  orig inal projec t plans; finding money  in the budg et to provide
additional project funding; redesign still including the planting of more trees than the number that
had been removed; removal of rock walkways in the redesign; whether a commitment had been made
to the public regarding the original design; whether revenue from the property sale to Menard’s could
be utilized toward the project, and airport runway flight area and safety concerns.  During discussion
Mr. Parish provided further information on the project, including an explanation that revenue from
the sale of property to Menard’s is planned to be used toward other projects, referencing the girls
softball complex project, Pioneer Par k improvements, re quired AD A compliance needs, a nd
unknown outcome of the pending 6  penny ballot projects.  Mayor Kaysen provided informationth
on the intent of the original funding proposal brought forward by the Cheyenne Airport Board and
community partners, which was from a  remediation standpoint to replace  trees.  He a dvised the
proposal was a 3 year phasing project tied with the dollars that would be provided from the Airport
Board and community partners in a total amount of $175,000 that included work that would be done
for land architectural services and tree and shrub plantings.  He stated the project budget amount of
$175,000 was shared during public meetings and that the focus was to revegetate the area with trees,
which, upon inquiry, he advised would not grow to a height that would affect airport landing safety
standards, and the possibility of an irrigation system. He shared that he had attended a meeting earlier
in the day with the community partners who advised they are working toward securing the $40,000
as previously committed, and that this amount was included in the budgeted amount of $175,000,
and confirmed $123,000 is the re maining amount of pro ject funds. Mayor Kaysen provided a n
explanation of why there has been few amenities in this portion of Lions Parks due to safety reasons
and regulations involving aircraft traveling over the area.  Further discussion followed regarding
project funding; support for as well as against the pending motion to reject all bids; removal of rock
formations/walkways in the redesign; funding shortages affecting needs in other parks; request for
Parks and Recreation prioritization list of department projects; public input received on the original
design vs. redesign of the scope of work for the project and what may constitute a commitment to
the public, and project phasing.  M otion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- Mr.  Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms.
Broyles, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Collins
and Mr. Pierson.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-9-12 for  a contr act for the Powers Field Storag e Shed proje ct
between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Construction Specialists, Inc.,
Cheyenne, WY.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $39,950.00). (#5800)
   
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-22-12 for furnishing 3 SUV's for the Fire and Rescue and Planning
Departments from Sheridan Motor, Sheridan, WY (2007 - 2010 1% Sales Tax and General Fund).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $89,575.75).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-19-12 for a contract for the Prairie View Golf Course and Okie
Blanchard Sanitary Sewer Main project be tween the City of Cheyenne, Parks a nd Recre ation
Department, and Merrill, Inc. of Cheyenne, WY -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointments of Anne Picot, JoAnne Weigand and Clayton W. Long to the Mayor’s Council
for People w ith Disabilities.  Mr. Collin s  moved to approve , seconded by Mr. B rown.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” --  all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen
who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 27, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for renewal of existing City liquor
licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, ba r and grill licenses, microbr ewery and winer y
permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  
            Announcement was made that due to the Presidents’ Holiday on Monday, February 20, 2012,
regularly schedule d City  Council Comm ittee meeting s will inst ead be  held in the Municipal
Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee
will meet Tuesday , February 21, 2012 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Service s Committee will meet
Wednesday, February 22, 2012 at Noon. 
Following query under other business by Mayor Kaysen to the public and City Coun cil
members and there being no other business, City Attorney Dan White requested the governing body
meet in executive session for the purpose of providing governing body members with an update
regarding the status of an eminent domain action involving Hollywood Videos property; an appeal
to the Wyoming Supreme Court involving the Roundup Heights litigation, and potential acquisition
of real property under circumstances where there is a reasonable likelihood that publicity regarding
proposed acquisition might affect the purchasing price.  Mr. Collins m oved to meet in executive
session, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body.  Mayor Kaysen announced members would meet in executive session in Council Chambers,
not open to the public; requested the City Attorney, City Clerk, and other staff as requested by the
City Attorney, be present at the executive session, and stated there would be no action taken by the
governing body as a result of the executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would
officially conclude at the close of the executive session.  (Clerk’s Note: Executive session convened
at 7:03: p.m. following a brief recess.)
The meeting was officially adjourned at 8:00 p.m. following closure of the executive session.
      
 Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
February 24, 2012