MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-02-27 | CLIP_ID: 279 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 279

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
February 27, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Pierson and Ms. Ash, agenda items #9 and 11 were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr.
Collins moved to approve  remaining Consent Ag enda items, sec onded by Mr. B rown.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 13, 2012. Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and Radio Station KYOY F M respectively) and vacated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by
Mr. Pierson.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to the Clerk of District Court, City Attorney
Dan White advised that in conjunction with the conde mnation filing for  the Holly wood Video
property, the court filing process requires the amount of the Ci ty’s last offer for the property be
submitted with filing  of the c omplaint.  Moti on carri ed.  Voting “yes” - - all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and
Mr. Valdez returned to Council Chambers.
Public Hearing for renewal of existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail,
resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.
Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advi sed of 3 re staurant liquor lice nsees who did not file r enewal
applications; noted those licenses proposed for renewal that are currently in a “parked” status, and
explained there are renewal applications for 2 retail licensees who were initially approved, with
conditions, for licenses at the July 25, 2011 Council meeting, stating the licenses have not yet been
issued.  She reviewed the conditions for each of the 2 retail licensees (re: One East Sixteenth, LLC
and Let ‘Er Buck Investment Group, LLC d/b/a Steamboat’s); time frame for the conditions to be
met (i.e. no later than July 25, 2012), and offered a suggestion that consideration be given to extend
the time frame for conditions to be met to coincide with the end of the upcoming annual licensing
term as approval of renewal applications will be for the term of April 1, 2012 through March 31,
2013.  In response to inquiry, James Yates, speaking on behalf of Let ‘er Buck Investment Group,
LLC, advised they are pursuing renewal of the liquor license for The Commons area, but due to
property acquisition issues, they  may be applying at a future  date to cha nge the location for the
restaurant operation.  Upon inquiry and during discussion, Officer Steve Neisen, Cheyenne Police
Dept., reviewed information he had compiled for the department’s 2011 annual c ompliance and
licensing inspection report involving undercover observer operations, TIPS compliance by licensees,
number of ca lls for servic e, and c ompliance c hecks involving  sales to under age per sons.  He
explained the depar tment is supporting a community alcohol educ ation program involving such
issues as “over service” and underage drinking.  Discussion included concerns with sales to and
consumption by underage persons and increase in police calls for service for certain establishments.
There being no further comments or input and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor
Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the applications to Finance Committee.
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established, and
Section 17.08.040, Cheyenne City Map, of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing t he z oning
classification from P Public District to HR-2 High Density Residential-Developing District for Lot
1, Block 1, The Pointe, Sixth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Dorothy
Lane, west of Powderhouse Road).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body.
 Resolution declaring as surplus the City-owned property located at 2100 Pioneer Avenue,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, commonly referred to as the City  of Chey enne Board of Public Utili ties
Administration building, together with all improvements thereon, and authorizing the Director of the
Board of Public Utilities and the City’s Purchasing Director to proceed with proposed sale of said
property pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §15-1-112.  John Ridge, Assistant City Attorney, advised pursuant
to Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-112(b) the City can sell the building directly to a political subdivision, of which
Cheyenne Housing Authority is considered, and explained a proposed substitute resolution includes
provisions involving sale of the property to the Housing Authority.  He advised if the Housing
Authority does not  meet the time frame in which to submit a qualified proposa l to purchase the
property, the substitute resolution then allows the City  to offer the property for s ale through the
public bidding process, noting proceeds from the sale will be utilized to offset the Board of Public
Utilities’ debt as required by statute.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to adopt,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon
inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised it is the belief of the City’s legal staff that the City has
a statutory obligation to sell the property at the appraised value and that Cheyenne Housing Authority
will be given the “first shot” to purchase the property at the appraised value.  He further advised if
the Housing Authority chooses to not exercise the option, then the property will be offered for sale
pursuant to a publicly sealed bid process and Cheyenne Housing Authority could choose to submit
a sealed bid in a lesser amount, the same as any other interested bidder.  He reiterated proceeds from
the sale will be used to pay down BOPU’s debt as provided by statute.  Upon query, Mr. White
clarified the 30 day time frame for the Housing Authority to submit their proposal begins from the
date the property appraisal information is rec eived by the Housing Authority.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5356)
Resolution increasing the level of funding placed into the Solid Waste Management fund for
the specific purpose of providing funding to pay for increased professional services costs and solid
waste tipping fees, increased recycling costs, and increased costs for the lease/purchase of solid
waste equipment.  M r. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Brown moved to
amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  It was advised the substitute allows for a clerical
correction to amounts listed for the Vehicle and Equipment Replacement fund.  Jim Elias, Public
Works Director, e xplained fur ther staf f re view of th e amount reque sted for the  Vehicle  and
Equipment Replacement fund was conducted following the Finance Committee meeting, resulting
in another proposed substitute resolution being prepared, and requested approval of that substitute,
which reduces the requested amount for that fund from $133,500.00 ($1,602,000.00 annually) to
$116,833.00 ($1,401,996.00 annually).  He indicated the lesser amount proposed is due to delaying
the schedule for acquisition of vehicle and equipment leases/purchases for 6 months.  Motion to
amend failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by
substitute (attorney stamp date of February 24, 2012) to incorporate the changes as presented by Mr.
Elias, seconded by Mr. Pierson. Upon inquiry, Mr. Elias provided further information on the reduced
amount being proposed and estimated savings, and noted that delaying the leasing of some of the
vehicles and equipment until calendar year 2013 will defer payments until fiscal year 2014.  Upon
inquiry, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, advised that in fiscal year 2014 two other lease payments will
expire.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Upon inquiry
during discussion, Mr. Elias reviewed recycling costs associated with operating the various recycling
programs (curbside, e-waste, composting, household hazardous waste); cost of tipping fees relative
to not having a recycling program; challenges involved with collecting recyclables on a weekly basis
and effect on solid waste pickup schedules; expansion of recycling programs to multi-family units
as well as commercial establishments, and volume of household solid waste and effect of overall
community g rowth.  Discussion topics included sug gestion of a solid waste e nterprise fund;
recycling effects; recycling collection time frames, and recycling opportunities for multi-family
dwellings and commercial establishments.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5357)
Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2012 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S . 16-4-112 &  16-4-113.  Mr. B rown moved to adopt, seconde d by Mr.
Pierson. Following brief co mments, Mr. Collins m oved to amend by  removing the amount of
$350,000.00 proposed f or a ne w phone system, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Discussion followed
regarding the need for a new phone system due to the system’s age and limited maintenance service
and e quipment r eplacement a vailability; ti me fr ame to a cquire a nd imp lement a  ne w s ystem;
unknown status of fiscal year 2013 budget revenues affiliated with anticipated state funding to be
received; concern with use of reserves for this type of purchase; suggestion of funding review for
inclusion in next year’s budget, and number of City-issued cell phones.  During discussion and upon
inquiry, Bob Bradshaw, Special Projects Director, provided information on the status of the current
phone system, explaining the limited serviceability of the system, which is approximately 20 years
old; outdated version of the system’s software, and the inability to replace failed individual user
phones as only refurbished phones (limited amount) are available.  He advised the requested funding
amount was for the first phase  of the re placement system involving the Municipa l Building and
perhaps another outside area, and would not cover  replacement of all phones in the sy stem.  He
clarified there is no backup to the phone system if it were to fail, noting funding for a new system
has been requested for quite a few years. During comment on City-issued cell phones, Mayor Kaysen
advised some employees utilize their own personal cell phones and not City ones.  Motion to amend
by removing the amount of $350,000.00 for a replacement phone system carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”.
Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, reviewed fuel cost increases affecting the Fleet
Maintenance budget; inventoried and non-inventoried parts; Fleet Maintenance staffing level, and
outsourcing work for repairs that can not be done in-house.  Discussion followed on funding in the
amount of $65,000.00 for an employee salary and staffing analysis study, and timing of the study
affiliated with curre nt economic c oncerns and unknown fisc al year 2013 budget situation, and
potential effect on level of staffing.  Mr. Pierson moved to amend by removing the amount of
$65,000.00 proposed for the employee salary and staffing analysis study, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Rich Wiederspahn, Human Resources Director, provided information on the benefits of the proposed
study, which has been contemplated since 2009, and expressed concerns with retaining and recruiting
qualified employees due to competitive salarie s offered by other e mployers.  Upon inquiry  he
clarified components of the study would be conducted as a package over an estimated five month
period, and indicated the study needs to be  a comprehensive regional study to be ef fective.  Mr.
Wiederspahn advised a salary survey that was recently conducted which focused on law enforcement
personnel resulted in salaries being increased to attract qualified police officers. Comments followed
regarding a similar study, referred to as the Anderson Study, that was conducted 20 years ago and
the inability to implement increases per that study due to l ack of funding.  Cl aus Johnson, City
employee and former Cheyenne Public Employees Association (CPEA) President, spoke in support
of the study and the difficulty the City has in retaining quality employees.  He stated the study would
include review of e mployee benefits and a  determination of appropriate job classifica tions and
whether the City is properly staffed.  He noted increasing costs to employees due to “frozen salaries”
and additional employee financial participation toward health and retirement expenses over the years.
Discussion included the following topics: Different levels of service between similar cities; job
classifications; employ ee c ompensation adjust ments and funding  conce rns; benef its of an
independent s tudy, a nd he alth ins urance sa vings (due  to less c laims su bmitted b y e mployees)
covering the cost of the study.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Pierson and Mr. Spiker.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez
and Mayor Kaysen. Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen provided a brief overview of his understanding of
the biennial budget status involving capital construction and direct distribution revenue amounts
affecting municipalities that is currently  before the state  legislature.  Comment of conc ern was
expressed relative to balancing the budget.  Mr. Spiker moved to postpone for two weeks (to March
12, 2012), seconded by Mr. Collins.  Discussion included state legislative budget decisions affecting
the upcoming  budg et y ear and not the cur rent budg et y ear; suggestion that re- appropriation
resolutions be submitted on the ag enda on a monthly instead of qua rterly basis; current status of
reserves; administrative Blue Form Committee process utilized for hiring employees or adjusting
salaries; two positions included for funding in the proposed re-appropriation, and support for as well
as ag ainst postponement.  During  discussion L ois Huff , City Treasurer, advised if the r e-
appropriation is approved the reserve level will be approximately $5.8 million, and Mayor Kaysen
provided information on the two employee salaries contained in the re-appropriation and explained
the review and approval process for hiring of employees through the Blue Form Committee.  Rick
Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, and Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, reviewed their
justification for the two e mployee positions (one in each department) included in the r e-
appropriation.  Mayor Kaysen reviewed the status of the amount in reserves, explaining that due to
efforts of employees this amount was grown to $7.1 million at the close of June 30, 2011.  Motion
to postpone failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez. Voting “no” -- Mr.
Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Upon inquiry,
Ms. Huff reviewed the amount contained in the re-appropriation relating to Depot Plaza events and
explained this is a cumulative negative balance that has been carried forward for a number of years
that she is try ing to ba lance out so they  can sta rt fr esh for 2012, and Mr. B radshaw stated a n
accounting change is being made regarding the tracking of expenditures and reviewed Depot events
funding partnerships and provisions involving vendors at events.  Comments followed regarding the
Blue Form Committee, its formation a number of years ago, individuals comprising the committee,
including the Chair of Finance Committee, and possibility of monthly re-appropriation requests
being placed on the agenda.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes”-- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash,
Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen. Voting “no” -- Mr.
Pierson and Mr. Spiker. (#5358)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for Country
Homes Subdivision, 3rd Filing, a replat of Lot 4, Block 5, Country Homes Subdivision, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located east of Cedar Avenue, between Grape and Peach Streets).  Brett Walker,
Development office, referenced a memo (on file with City Clerk’s office) dated February 24, 2012
issued to City Council members indicating continuing staff support for recommendation #1, which
would provide for a 26 ft. dedicated right-of-way to provide a pedestrian and vehicular connection
and not a road reservation, as suggested by the developer.  Bruce Perryman, AVI Engineering, spoke
in opposition to the staff recommendation and in support of a road reservation due to public access
concerns involving a right-of-way.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised if a right-of-
way is p latted and recorded, it b ecomes right-of-way dedicated to p ublic use, and expressed his
hesitancy in offering an opinion at the meeting on the locking/un-locking of a gate, affiliated with
the topic of public access, without having the opportunity to research.  Mr. Perryman submitted maps
(on file with City Clerk’s office) of the property area and discussed concerns with proximity of the
proposed right-of-way area to a n existing structure on the lot , public access to area relative to
residences and a gated area, and setback requirements.  He stated the developer’s preference is for
a road reservation, instead of the 26 f t. dedicated right-of-way, which would reserve the strip for
future road access and keep the property ownership private, and offered the option of a private access
easement.  He noted past development examples involving road reservations.  Comments followed
regarding  connectivity and right-of-way for future use, and staff continuing to discuss the issue with
the developer to hopefully reach an agreement.  Mr. Collins raised a procedural point of order with
Mayor Kaysen advising there was no motion on the floor.   John Volk discussed a past subdivision
development (re: Mustang Ridge) relative to road reservation vs. right-of-way access issues.  Mr.
Walker advised the  2nd plat filing f or Country  Homes Subdivision was approved w ith two
hammerheads in the layout in such a way that if certain lots did sell at a future date it would allow
connectivity and fulfill the patterns of the blocks.  James Perrott Macneil commented on provisions
he was aware of for property located on the east coast that allowed access to remain private.  Ms.
Ash moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Comments followed regarding future connectivity,
public vs. private access and effect on landowners, road reservation vs. dedicated right-of-way, and
possibility of a r oad re servation affiliated with a me morandum o f understanding with the
landowner(s).  Upon inquiry, Mr. White advised, pursuant to h is research, he could not find a ny
understanding or explanation of a road reservation as a term utilized in Wyoming Statutes.  Mr .
Collins moved to postpone for two weeks (to March 12, 2012), seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Comments
followed in support of postponement to allow staff and landowner(s) an opportunity to discuss the
matter further to protect the interests of both parties.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body. 
Following a brief recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 9:07 p.m.
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for WYODI GS
Properties Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a r eplat of Lots 2 and 4, Block 4, Campstool Addition, Third
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Trucker Trail and Industry Court, west of the KOA
Campground).  Ms. Ash moved to adopt with staff recommendation #1, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Comments followed reg arding conce rns of the de veloper wit h John Volk, Campstool L and
Company, advising that drainage issues will be approved by the City Engineer prior to the plat being
signed.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5359)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for Prairie
Dog Alley Subdivision, a replat of the north half of Tract 38, Dell Range Addition, Third Filing,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Summit Drive, east of Braehill Road).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5360)
Resolution a uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd the  City  Cle rk to s ign a  F inal Pla t f or Riv ett
Subdivision, a portion of the NE1/4 of Section 1, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located north of and adjacent to West Lincolnway, east of Westland Road).  Ms. Ash moved to
adopt, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Ms. Ash moved to ame nd to inclu de staff recommendation #1,
seconded by  M r. Collins.  Upon inqui ry, Br ett Walker, De velopment offic e, advise d staff
recommendation #1 is to record required easements on the lot adjacent to the east before signatures
are affixed to the map.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Discussion topics included: Accessibility concerns to
certain portions of the land; lack of right-of-way being included for roads for future access; unknown
factors involving future area development; MPO corridor study; area property owners’ involvement
in future g rowth relative to roads an d City criteria, and the pr oposed hotel deve lopment on the
property.  Upon inquiry , Br andon Cammara ta, Planning a nd Deve lopment Direc tor, provided
information on the preliminary plat review process, conceptual land use plan for the area affiliated
with the Missile Drive corridor plan, and the need for a road plan.  He clarified the MPO did delve
into what was the best approach for a road network for the area, and advised marketability factors
involving development or non-development of the area may affect road development.  John Steil,
Steil Surveying Services, agent for applicant, stated if they put streets in this would set the pattern
for any further development and they are not sure what will be developed at this time.  Upon inquiry,
Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, advised of the general purpose of subdivision regulations
and that placing a condition for right-of-way may be premature.  Main motion as amended carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash and Dr . Rinne
voting “no”. (#5361)
Resolution granting with conditions an exception for deve lopment of a small waste water
system pursuant t o th e “ 201 A greement” fo r p roperty de scribed a s a  tr act of  la nd in
N1/2N1/2NE1/4NE1/4 of Section 11, Township 13 North, Range 67 West, of the 6th P.M. (a/k/a
4121 West 5th Street), Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.  Ray Martin, attorney representing
Profile Properties, LLC, applicant, questioned the conditions affiliated with the exception request.
Jim Flesher, Planning and Development office, reviewed the conditions which includes annexation
of the property.  Mr. Martin spoke in opposition to the annexation condition, advising the applicant
does not desire to annex all of the property at this time due to potential acquisition of the property
by WYDOT for future re-design and reconstruction of the I-25/I-80 interchange, and referenced a
lease that had bee n entered into with Dy na Nobel.  He sugges ted a condition be placed on the
property that if the owner sells the property or develops any of the property in the future, at that time
it should be annexed.  Discussion followed on the 201 exception and conditions recommended by
staff and City-County Health Department, Environmental Health Division.  During comments, Mr.
Flesher p rovided r easons fo r s taff’s re commendations a nd the  wa stewater ho lding ta nk tha t is
proposed as a compromise, and Gary Hickman, Environmental Health, clarified the holding tank
could not be held in perpetuity as septic systems are not allowed within City limits.  James Perrott
Macneil spoke in opposition to the annexation condition.  Ms. Ash moved to adopt.  Motion died
due to lack of a second to the motion.
[CA] Resolution granting an exception for development of a small wastewater system pursuant to
the “201 Agreement” for property described as a portion of Tract 1, Lincoln Valley Tracts, Section
36, Township 14 North, Range 66 West, of the 6th P.M. (a/k/a 6509 Tate Road), Cheyenne, Laramie
County, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5362)
[CA] Resolution a uthorizing the  su bmission of  a  B usiness R eady Com munity, Comm unity
Enhancement Grant application to the Wyoming Business Council on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City  of Chey enne for completion of the Polk A venue Greenway segment.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5363)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the Pointe, Sixth
Filing, a replat of Lot 13, Block 10, The Pointe, Fifth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
southwest corner of the intersection of E. Four Mile and Powerhouse Roads) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution approving Water Service, by User’s Agreement with Marvin Strubhar, 3408
Victoria Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Pierson).
Wyoming Chi ldren’s Trust Fund Grant Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth
Alternatives, Special Friends, and Wyoming Department of Family Services, Protective Services
Division, to provide Outreach Mentoring Program services.  Ms. Ash declared a conflict of interest
(employment conflict) and vacated Council Chambers.  Dr. Dick Berry, Youth Alternatives Director,
advised of a potential update to the contract and expressed support for a two week postponement.
Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown move d to postpone for two
weeks (to Marc h 12, 2012), sec onded by Mr. Valde z.  Upon inquiry, Dr. B erry explained the
postponement will not affe ct the g rant, and Dan White, City  Attorney, clarified the purpose  of
postponement is to address concerns with contract language.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement
of the vote, Ms. Ash returned to Council Chambers.
[CA] Professional Servic es L etter of  I ntent between the City  of Chey enne a nd Kaiser  and
Company, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to refinance outstanding Series 2003 Revenue Bonds for the City
Center Parking Structure -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Housing Authority of the City
of Cheyenne, for the purchase of City-owned real property and improvements, commonly known as
515 Morrie Avenue, 916 East 5  Street, and 922 East 5  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred toth th
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5776 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and E/S3 Consultants, Inc. for Energy Project Consulting Services (Energy
Development fund).  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) carried (amount not to ex ceed $25,000.00).
(#5776)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5377 between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation
Division, and Alpine Waste and Recycling for sorting, processing and marketing of single stream
(recyclable) materials.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5377)
Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 5775, Professional Services Agreement between the City
of Cheyenne, Police Department, and DLR Group, Inc., for the Cheyenne Public Safety Center site
analysis -- referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown reported the item was reviewed under other
items for the agenda at Finance Committee and provisions of Title 2, City Code, had been met.  Mr.
Brown moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $34,770.00, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Chief
Brian Kozak, Police Dep artment, provided infor mation on service s previously provided by  the
company regarding a space needs analysis, which assisted with the determination that a new public
safety center was needed, and recommended site locations for the new facility.  He stated the scope
of services to be provided through the amendment will allow DLR Group to provide an architectural
design concept and analysis, which will include square  footage and f loor plans; detailed budg et
information, and an exterior view of the building.  He noted the information will be provided to the
public for their  knowledge relative to the upcoming  6  penny ballot proposition.  J ohn Palmerth
expressed concern that the building project was being placed on the ballot without previously having
acquired the infor mation that is requested throug h the amendme nt, and s uggested, if the ba llot
question passes, waiting and using 6  penny funds to pay for the services to receive the information.th
Upon inquiry on whether money that may be expended now f or the additional services could be
reimbursed at a later date from 6th penny funds if the ballot question is approved, Dan White, City
Attorney, expressed his hesitancy  in offer ing an opi nion at the meeting  without having the
opportunity to research state statutes.  Discussion topics included: How the estimated cost for the
new Public Safety Center was determined; services under the initial contract; need for specific
information to share with voters; suggestion the contractor be approached to inquire whether some
services might be donated; concern with future potential benefit to the contractor relative to other
professional services for the project, and comments in support as well as non-support of expending
money for the a dditional services prior to the ballot question being approved by voters.  Motion
failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr.
Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Spiker.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 2 to Cont ract No. 5496 bet ween the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and Ayres Associates for additional design services for the East Pershing
Boulevard reconstruction project (Phase IV) (2003-2006, 2007-2010 1% Sales Tax, Board of Public
Utilities, Federal Highway Administration funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-19-12 for a contract for the Prairie View Golf Course and Okie
Blanchard S anitary Sewer  Main projec t betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Merrill, Inc. of Chey enne, Wyoming.  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5805)
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-25-12 for f urnishing one new r oll-off truck for the Sanitation
Division from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made  of the a ppointment of J ames W. Hea rne, Tuc ker Fagan and
William C. Beaman, to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming-Laramie County, State of Wyoming Joint
Powers Board for Frontier Park improvements to be confirmed March 12, 2012.
Under other business, Rick Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation, reminded those present
of a  City Cou ncil w ork s ession on  AD A c ompliance ma tters inv olving t he de partment t hat is
scheduled for February 29, 2012 at noon.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 10:07 p.m.
      
 Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
March 13, 2012