MEETING: City Council Meeting March 12, 2012 | DATE: 2012-03-12 | CLIP_ID: 286 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 286

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
March 12, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and
Mr. Valdez.  Absent: Mr. Collins.  A lso present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Erik Rasmussen, Deputy City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Spiker, and pursuant to support received by
Ms. Broyles and Mr. A llen, agenda item #16(c) was removed from the Consent Ag enda.  Upon
request by Ms. Broyles, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Rinne and Mr. Brown, agenda item
#19(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  U pon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to
support received by Ms. Ash and Dr. Rinne, a genda Item #17(a) was removed from the Consent
Agenda.   Mr. Brown  moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 27, 2012. Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Council Chambers.  Mr. Va ldez moved to approve pa yment of
vouchers a s p resented, se conded b y Mr. Allen.  Up on inq uiry re garding a  vo ucher p ayable to
Employers Council Services Inc. ($2,497.50), Lois Huff, City Treasurer, advised services were for
new hire employee background investigations.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established, and
Section 17.08.040, Chey enne City Map, of the Che yenne City  Cod e, by chang ing the  zoning
classification from P Public District to HR-2 High Density Residential-Developing District for Lot
1, Block 1, The Pointe, Sixth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Dorothy
Lane, west of Powderhouse Road).  Mike Langhoff expressed concern with an increase in traffic
volume due to the proposed development.  Reporting for Public Service s Committee, Dr. Rinne
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon inquiry, Matt Ashby,
Planning Services Director, explained that through the development review process an analysis of
traffic impacts is conducted.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present. (#3944)
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Zon ing Districts Established, and
Section 17.08.040, Chey enne City Map, of the Che yenne City Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification f rom MU B Mixe d U se wi th B usiness E mphasis a nd MR- 2 M edium D ensity
Residential – Developing Districts to CB Community Business District for Lots 1-10, Block One,
College Business Park, 3rd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to N. College
Drive, between Laramie and Charles Streets) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms.
Ash).
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established, and
Section 17.08.040, Chey enne City Map, of  the C heyenne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from CB Community Business District to HR-2 High Density Residential - Developing
District for Lot 4, Block One, Gateway South, 3rd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and
adjacent to Walterscheid B oulevard, south of W. Fox Farm Road) -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for Country
Homes Subdivision, 3rd Filing, a replat of Lot 4, Block 5, Country Homes Subdivision, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located east of Cedar Avenue, between Grape and Peach Streets).  Dr. Rinne
moved to adopt with staff recommendation #1, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#5364)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the Pointe, Sixth
Filing, a replat of Lot 13, Block 10, The Pointe, Fifth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
southwest corner of the intersection of E. Four Mile and Powderhouse Roads).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5365)
[CA] Resolution approving Water Service , by User’s Agreement with Marvin Strubhar, 3408
Victoria Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5366)
[CA] Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2012 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 & 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Brown).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for The Crossroads
Center, Second Filing, a replat of a portion of Lots 2 and 4, and all of Lot 3, Block 2, The Crossroads
Center, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Greenway Street, east of College
Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution granting, with conditions, an exception for development of a small wastewater
system pursuant to the ‘201 Ag reement’ and authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a
development agreement for property described as a tract of land in N1/2N1/2NE1/4NE1/4 of Section
11, Township 13 North, Range 67 West, of the 6th P.M. (a/k/a 4121 West 5th Street), Cheyenne,
Laramie County, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
Wyoming Chi ldren’s Trust Fu nd Grant Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth
Alternatives, Special Friends, and Wyoming Department of Family Services, Protective Services
Division, to provide Outreach Mentoring Program services.  Ms. Ash declared a conflict of interest
(employment conflict) a nd vacated Council Chamb ers.  Reporting  for F inance Committee, Mr.
Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown move d to amend by  substitute,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  It was noted the substitute provides for wording clarification and includes
referenced (attachments) documents.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the
vote, Ms. Ash returned to Council Chambers. (#5805)
Professional Servic es L etter of  I ntent betwee n the C ity of Chey enne a nd Kaiser  and
Company, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to refinance outstanding Series 2003 Revenue Bonds for the City
Center Parking Structure.  Mr. B rown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. B rown
moved to postpone for two weeks (to March 26, 2012), seconded by Mr. Pierson.  It was advised the
postponement is to allow for review of potential additional funding options.  Motion to postpone
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Housing Authority of the City
of Cheyenne, for the purchase of City-owned real property and improvements, commonly known as
515 Morrie A venue, 916 E ast 5  Street, and 922 East 5  Street, Chey enne, Wy oming. Miketh th
Stanfield, Executive Director, Cheyenne Housing Authority, spoke in favor of the agreement and the
opportunity for the Housing Authority to rehabilitate the properties to provide needed housing to low
income households.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez (revenue to the City in
the amount of $4,441.72).  Comments followed r egarding previous bid amounts recei ved for the
properties that were not approved by the governing body; City’s fiduciary responsibility to recoup
6  penny funds utilized to initially acquire the properties; expression of interest in the propertiesth
recently received from another party; suggestion of re-bidding the properties through another sealed
bid process, and status of properties involving any hail damage.  Mayor Kaysen verified a second
call for bids was not issued following consideration of the first sealed bids received, which were not
approved.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” --
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County Community
Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth at Carey Junior
High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Five grant funds) -- referred tost
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County Community
Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth at Johnson
Junior High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Four grant funds) -- referredst
to Finance Committee.

[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City prisoners at the Laramie County
Detention Center -- referred to Finance Committee.
Contract Modifica tion No. 2 to Cont ract No. 5496 bet ween the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and Ayres Associates for additional design services for the East Pershing
Boulevard reconstruction project (Phase IV) (2003-2006, 2007-2010 1% Sales Tax, Board of Public
Utilities, Federal Highway Administration funds).  Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount not
to exceed $21,175.00, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone for 2 w eeks (to
March 26, 2012), sec onded by Mr. Valde z.  Doug Ve tter, City Engineer, stated staff  requested
postponement to allow time for the consultants to amend the modification to expand the project’s
scope of work due to additional federal funding.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Professional Services Agreement/Contract No. 5613  between the City
of Cheyenne on behalf of the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization and Felsburg, Holt and
Ullevig for South Greeley Highway Corridor Plan - Supplemental Budget Request -- referred to
Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5697 between the City of Cheyenne and STC
Construction Co., C heyenne, Wyoming, for bridge repairs on the Westland Road Over lay and
Improvements Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-25-12 for f urnishing one new r oll-off truck for the Sanitation
Division from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $139,993.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-23-12 for furnishing stage drapery for the City of Cheyenne Civic
Center -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-30-12 for surplus sale of one Express Dual 1000 reel grinder, one
Anglemaster 2000 bed knife grinder, and one Toro greens aerator for the City of Cheyenne, Parks
and Recreation Department, Golf Division -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-11-12 for  annual Contrac t between the City of Chey enne and
Simon Contractor, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for annual Contract for furnishing aggregate for the Street
and Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-12-12 for annual Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Knife
River, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for annual Contract for hot plant mix, asphalt tack oil and cold mix for
the Street and Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-13-12 for Contract betwe en the City  of Chey enne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Chalk Buttes Landscaping, Inc., Douglas, Wyoming, for Lions Park
Remediation project -- referred to Finance Committee.
    
Renewal of existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill
licenses, microbrewery and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  The name of said
applicant, type of license and description of premises which applicant desires to use as the place of
sale are set forth as follows: Wigwam, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package Liquor, retail, 2105
E. Lincolnway; Cheyenne Vail Investments, Inc. d/b/a Gus & Jon’s Crown Bar, retail, 222 West
Lincolnway; Poor Richard's d/b/a Poor Richard’s, retail, 2233 E. Lincolnway; W.W. Enterprises, Inc.
d/b/a Les’ Lamp Lounge and Drive-In Liquor, retail, 101 W. 6th St.; The Blue Bird, Inc. d/b/a Uncle
Charlie's, retail, 6001 Yellowstone Road; Langhoff Enterprises d/b/a Two Bar Bowl, retail, 700 E.
Carlson; Cadillac Ranch Bar, Inc. d/b/a Cadillac Ranch Bar, retail, 3307 Nationway; Fraternal Order
of Eagles Aerie #128, ltd. retail, 1600 Thomes Ave.; B.P.O. Elks #660, ltd. retail, 100 E. 17th St.;
W. E. Dinneen, Inc. d/b/a [to be determined], retail, 400 W. Lincolnway; KEG, Inc. d/b/a D.T.’s
Liquor Mart & Tusker Bar, retail, 3310 Ridge Road; JKLL, Inc. d/b/a The Drunken Skunk, retail,
1617 Capitol Ave.; Twin Dragon Chinese Rest., Inc. d/b/a Twin Dragon, rest., 1809 Carey Avenue;
South Side Bar, Inc. d/b/a Keg 'n Kork Liquors, retail, 822 Central Ave.; Rande’s Ritz, LLC d/b/a
Midtown Tavern, retail, 1303 E. Pershing Blvd.; Cheyenne Country Club, ltd. retail, 800 Stinner
Road; F & G Corp. d/b/a The Green Door, retail, 301 E. Lincolnway; ENI, Inc. d/b/a Eagle's Nest,
retail, 1101 W. Lincolnway; Outback Steakhouse of Florida, LLC d/b/a Outback Steakhouse, retail,
1626 Fleischli Parkway; Lambousis Revocable Trust d/b/a Mayflower, retail, 112 W. 17th St.; Four
Winds, Inc. d/b/a Four Winds, retail, 1103 E. Pershing; EKG, Inc. d/b/a D.T.'s Package Liquor and
Lounge, retail, 2121 E. Lincolnway; Alf in Wyoming Enterprise, LLC d/b/a Alf's Pub and Package
Liquor, retail, 1622 E. 19th St.; Flatland I nvestments, LLC d/b/a Godfather 's Pizza, rest., 5719
Yellowstone Road; Francis E. Self Post #6 d/b/a The American Legion Post #6, ltd. retail, 2001 E.
Lincolnway; The Peaks Cafe II, LLC d/b/a The Peaks Cafe II at the Airport, rest., 300 E. 8th Ave.;
F.E. Warren Post #1881 d/b/a V.F.W. Post #1881, ltd. retail, 2816 E. 7th St.; Knights of Columbus
Council #801 d/b/a Casey's Club, ltd. retail, 507 W. 28th St.; Blanne Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Cool
River Wine & Spirits, retail, 5225 Yellowstone Rd.; Re-o-na Sushi and Thai d/b/a Re-o-na Sushi Bar
and Thai Cuisine, rest., 112 W. 17th St.; One East Sixteenth, LLC d/b/a TBD, retail, 1601 Central
Ave.; Airport Golf Club, Inc., ltd. retail, 4801 Central Ave.; Katrina M. and Adam L. Howell d/b/a
Scooter's Scoreboard Bar, retail, 507 E. Lincolnway; Cloud 9, Inc. d/b/a Cloud 9 Liquorland, retail,
1958 Dell Range Blvd. #C; Texas Roadhouse of Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Texas Roadhouse, retail, 1931
Bluegrass Circle; HEJE, Inc.d/b/a Outlaw Liquors, retail, 4503 Western Way; KZ Corporation d/b/a
Goofy’s Tavern, retail, 2801 E. Lincolnway; Stillwater, Inc. d/b/a Mingles, retail, 1618 Stillwater
Ave.; Prairie View Golf Club, ltd. retail, 3600 Windmill Road; Albany, Inc. d/b/a Albany Rest., Bar
and Liquormart, retail, 1506 Capitol Ave.; Mehn, Inc. d/b/a Casa De Trujillo, rest., 122 W. 6th St.;
S&W Properties, LLC d/b/a Vinos Wine and Spirits, retail, 453 Vandehei Ave., #190;  The Plains
Hotel Co., LLC d/b/a The Plains Hotel, resort, 1600 Central Ave.; Real Mexican Foods, Inc. d/b/a
Los Amigos Rest., rest., 620 Central Ave.; Avanti, Inc. d/b/a Dell Range Liquor, retail, 3806 Dell
Range Blvd., Suite 4; Pizza Hut on Yellowstone, Inc, rest., 5320 Yellowstone Rd.; Hotel West I, LP
d/b/a Holiday Inn Cheyenne, resort, 204 W. Fox Farm Rd.; AMVETS Post #10, ltd. retail, 3839 E.
Lincolnway; Moreno & Reyes, LLC d/b/a Guadalajara Family Mexican Rest., rest., 1745 Dell Range
Blvd.; Pizza Hut of Cheyenne d/b/a Pizza Hut/Wing Street, rest., 4503 Western Way; Morris House
Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Morris House Bistro, rest., 2114 Warren Ave.; Bighorn Associates, LC d/b/a
Chili's Southwest Grill and Bar, retail, 1320 Dell Range Blvd.; Appaloosa Enterprises, LLC d/b/a
Sanford’s Grub & Pub, retail, 115 E. 17th St.; Maria Ramos d/b/a El Charrito Mexican Restaurant,
rest., 216 E. 17th St.; Concord Neighborhood Corp. d/b/a Applebee's Neighborhood Grill and Bar,
retail, 1401 Dell Rang e Blvd.; Delilah R. Pi neda d/b/a E stevan's Cafe, r est., 1820 Ridge  Road;
GMRI, Inc. d/b/a Red Lobster #639, retail, 1923 Dell Range Blvd.; Dynasty Café, Inc. d/b/a Dynasty
Cafe, rest., 600 W. 19  St.; Mondello Corporation d/b/a L’Osteria Mondello, rest., 1507 Stillwater;th
China Buffet, Inc. d/b/a China Buffet, rest., 1958 Dell Range Blvd.; RGLM, Inc. d/b/a Avanti Italian
Rest., rest., 4620 Grandview Ave.; Shadows Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Shadows Pub & Grill, rest.,
115 W. 15th St., #1; Let ‘er Buck Investment Group, LLC d/b/a Steamboat’s Territorial Steakhouse,
retail, (address not yet issued) to be located on Gardenia between Yellowstone and El Camino Real
in Cathedral Commons; Nagle-Warren Mansion, LLC d/b/a Nagle-Warren Mansion LLC, rest., 222
East 17  St.; OC Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Old Chicago Rest., retail, 1734 Meadowland Dr.;  Sandra J.th
Innis d/b/a 2 Doors Down, rest., 118 E. 17th St.; Soo Hyun Choi, LLC d/b/a Tokyo Bowl, rest., 1829
Dell Range Blvd.; Jerry P. Innis d/b/a Pizzeria Venti, rest., 112 E. 17  St.; Shadows Brewing Co.,th
LLC d/b/a Shadows Pub & Grill, microbrewery, 115 W. 15th St.; Suite 1901, Freedoms Edge
Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Freedoms Edge Brewing Co., microbrewery, 301 W. Lincolnway; Freedoms
Edge Brewing 2, LLC d/b/a Freedoms Edge Brewing Co., microbrewery, 1509 Pioneer Ave.; CLLC
d/b/a The Winery at 1901, winery, 1901 Central Ave.; OG of Cheyenne, Inc. d/b/a The Olive Garden
Italian Rest., bar &  g rill, 1536 Dell Rang e B lvd.; Moreno and Ag uilar, LLC d/b/a Hacienda
Guadalajara, bar & grill, 317 E. Lincolnway; O’Jackson’s, Inc. d/b/a  Jackson’s All American Sports
Bar & Grill, bar & grill, 1121 Old Town Lane; Suite 1901, CLLC d/b/a Suite 1901,  bar & grill, 1901
Central Ave.  City Clerk Carol I ntlekofer offered a suggestion that in lieu of rea ding the list of
renewal applicants for the 2012-2013 term, as shown on the mee ting agenda, the listing itself be
recorded in its entirety in the official minutes of the meeting together with any motions and votes.
She noted, pursuant to state statute requirements, publication of notice of renewal applications and
posting of notices on respective premises have been achieved, and the holding of a public hearing
before the governing body has been conducted.  She further stated that the City Attorney has advised
that this statement o n the record provides sufficient doc umentation to identify  those individual
renewal applications that may be acted upon at the meeting.  U pon query by Mayor Kaysen to
members of the governing body, there was no objection voiced to recognize the renewal applicants
as listed on the ag enda in lieu of  the Clerk re ading the individual applicants, and Ma yor Kaysen
announced the reading of renewal applicants’ information would be waived.  Robert Langhoff, co-
owner, Two Bar Bowl, advised he was available to answer any questions.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve renewal of liquor licenses, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr . Brown advised, pursuant to
discussion at Finance Committee, it was intended that the recommendation to approve the renewal
applications f or On e Ea st Si xteenth, L LC a nd L et ‘ Er B uck I nvestment G roup, L LC d/ b/a
Steamboat’s include continuation of the conditions the governing body placed on the licenses at its
July 25, 2011 meeting , but the Committee’s motion t o rec ommend approva l did not specify
continuation of the conditions for these applicants.  Mr. Brown moved to divide the question to allow
for separate action on the liquor renewal application filed by One East Sixteenth, LLC, seconded by
Mr. Allen.  Motion to divide the question carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.  Mr. Brown moved to approve the renewal application filed by One East Sixteenth,
LLC  with the condition that a lease agreement with a restaurant establishment to operate within the
building must be signed no later than July 25, 2012 or the license will revert to the City, seconded
by Mr. Allen.  It was noted the license was initially approved July 25, 2011 with the same condition
and the motion on the floor confirms the condition remains in p lace.  M s. Intlekofer clarified if
renewal of the license is approved, the license term will be the same as other annual licenses, which
term is from April 1  through March 31  each year, and if the licensee does not comply with thest st
condition by the July 25  date, the City may need to pursue legal procedures available to revoke theth
license.  Motion ca rried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the g overning body present with the
exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Mr. Brown moved to divide the question to allow for separate
action o n th e liq uor r enewal a pplication f iled b y L et ‘ Er Bu ck Investment G roup, L LC d/ b/a
Steamboat’s, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to divide the question carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.  Mr. Brown moved to approve the renewal application filed
by Let ‘Er Buck Investment Group, LLC d/b/a Steamboat’s with the condition that construction of
the establishment must begin no later than July 25, 2012 or the license will revert to the City,
seconded by Mr. Spiker. James Yates, Let’Er Buck Investment Group, advised he was present to
answer any questions and stated they are planning on fulfilling the July deadline condition.  Pursuant
to inquiry conce rning use of the te rm “c onstruction” vs. “r emodeling”, Matt Ashby , Planning
Services Director, expressed his belief that if a condition is for a building to be “under construction”
or “remodeled” that there is no difference in terminology as far as both would require a building
permit.  Discussion included the following topics:  Concerns with regard to the initial issuance of
the license, which wa s for a  specific restaurant theme pla n within a newly developed area (The
Commons) in n orth Cheyenne; parking and property acquisition issues involving the i nitial site
within The Commons development; possible future change in location (to Dell Range Blvd.) for the
proposed restaurant affiliated with us e of the  license, a nd utilizing retail liquor licenses f or the
purposes of economic development.  Mr. Yates provided information on Steamboat’s project status,
advising they are close to entering into a lease agreement for a different site; reviewed his history
as a business/restaurant owner in Wyoming, specifically Cheyenne, and being fiscally responsible
to shareholders involved in the projec t, and monetar y investment by  shareholders to date, and
explained the business plan has re mained the sa me.  S helly Clements, Let ‘Er Buck Investment
Group shareholder, provided information relative to parking issues at the initially proposed business
lots located at The Commons, which has resulted in the group looking for an alternative location.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of
Ms. Ash and Dr. Rinne voting “no.”  Ms. Broyles moved to divide the question to allow for separate
action on the liquor renewal application filed by Two Bar Bowl, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion
to divide the question carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Ms. Ash and Mr. Va ldez voting “no”.  Ms. Broy les moved to approve the renewal
application for Two Bar Bowl, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Co mment of concern was expressed
regarding underage drinking at t he establishment.  Robert L anghoff, Two Bar Bowl, provided
information re lating to thei r efforts to reduce  and eliminate potential unde rage drinking
opportunities, advising they have diligently worked with the Police Department and have passed all
compliance checks and TIPS certifications, and have taken responsible steps to enforce policies.  Ms.
Ash stated that due to child issues she would be excusing herself from attendance at the remainder
of the City Council meeting (City Clerk note: Ms Ash vacated Council Chambers at 6:55 p.m.).
Upon inquiry, Officer Steve Neisen, Cheyenne Police Department, explained he has worked closely
with staff at Two Bar Bowl on ways to reduce and eliminate drinking under age (DUA) availability
within the establishment’s open concourse area, and provided information on enforcement strategies
and the number and types of police calls for service.  Mr. Langhoff explained his concerns with
enforcement and communication, and sug gested more timely communication to all licensee s be
provided by the Police Department regarding the number of  calls for  service affiliated with the
department’s annual report submitted during the renewal process, and particularly prior to the annual
public hear ing.  D iscussion followed a nd included informa tion from Offic er N eisen re garding
security, enforcement, the department’s new community alcohol educational program, and the unique
environment involving the bowling  alley as b oth an adult and y outh recreational area.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Ms. Broyles moved to divide
the question to allow for separate action on the liquor renewal application filed by Stillwater, Inc.
d/b/a Mingles, seconded Mr. Pierson.  Motion to divide the question carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr.
Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Spiker.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Valdez
and Mayor Kaysen.  Ms. Broyles moved to approve the renewal application for Stillwater, Inc. d/b/a
Mingles, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Owen Groshart, Mingles representative, stated he was available
to answer any questions.  Upon inquiry, Officer Neisen reviewed the number and types of incidents
that had occurred based on c alls for ser vice, per the de partment’s annual report, and e xplained
operational changes that have or will be occurring and training that will be provided to servers by
the Police Department regarding “over service” situations.  M otion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.  Ms. Broyles moved to divide the question to allow for
separate action on the liquor renewal application filed by W.W. Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Les’ Lamp
Lounge, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion to divide the question failed (due to a tie vote).  Voting
“yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson and Mr. Spiker. Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Discussion followed on the main motion, excluding those renewal
licenses already acted upon.  Officer Neisen responded to inquiries regarding underage drinking
concerns at various locations within the community, specifically a recent incident at Romero Park;
confirmed the Lamp Lounge has a very positive system for tracking of incidents; addressed training
and changed practices and policie s for many liquor licensee s (i.e. Red L obster, Pizza Hut/Wing
Street (east location) and Crown Bar) based upon the department’s report information and inquiry
by City Council members during this year’s renewal process.  Dave McGee, provider of security
services for Lamp Lounge, reported on incident tracking and security operations at the Lamp, and
stated they are working closely with the Police Department.  Comments followed regarding DUAs,
possible legislation to require a “must appear” status when someone is cited into municipal court for
an underage drinking offense, and self-responsibility of youth and young adults to know right from
wrong.  Main motion to approve re newal of remaining liquor lice nses (re: those not acted upon
pursuant to separate motions) carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
  
Appointment of James W. Hearne, Tucker Fagan and William C. Beama n to the City  of
Cheyenne, Wyoming-Laramie County, State of Wy oming Joint Powers B oard for Frontier Park
improvements.  Ms. Broyles moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not
vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Catherine Nicholas and Maida Wedell to
the Arts In Public Places Committee to be confirmed March 26, 2012.
Under other business, Deputy City Attorney Erik Rasmussen requested the governing body
meet in executive sessi on to discuss matters involving pe nding potential litigation.  Mr. Pierson
moved to meet in executive session, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of  the  g overning bo dy pr esent.  Ma yor Ka ysen a nnounced me mbers would me et in
executive session in Council Chambers, not open to the public; requested the Deputy City Attorney,
City Clerk, and other staff as requested by the Deputy City Attorney, be present at the executive
session, and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the executive
session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close of the
executive session.  (Clerk’s Note: Executive session convened at 7:55 p.m. following a brief recess.)
There being no further business to come before the governing body prior to the executive
session, the meeting was officially adjourned at 8:21p.m. following closure of the executive session.
      
 Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
March 22, 2012