MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-03-26 | CLIP_ID: 289 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 289

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
March 26, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins,  Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and
Mr. Valdez.  A bsent: Mr. Pierson.  A lso present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  Mayor Kaysen recognized members of the Mighty Eagles
4-H Club present at the meeting.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Brown and Mr. Allen, agenda item # 18(b) was re moved from the Consent Ag enda.  U pon
request by Ms. Ash, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Collins and Ms. Broyles , agenda items
#17(b) and (c) were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Collins  moved to approve remaining
Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Allen .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 12, 2012. Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and Radio Station KYOY F M respectively) and vacated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Spiker moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by
Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez returned to Council
Chambers.
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established, and
Section 17.08.040, Chey enne Cit y Map, of the Chey enne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification f rom MU B Mixe d U se wi th B usiness E mphasis a nd MR- 2 M edium D ensity
Residential – Developing Districts to CB Community Business District for Lots 1-10, Block One,
College Business Park, 3rd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to N. College
Drive, between Laramie and Charles Streets).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present.
Ordinance amending Title 17, Zoning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established, and
Section 17.08.040, Chey enne City Map, of the Che yenne City Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification from CB Community Business District to HR-2 High Density Residential - Developing
District for Lot 4, Block One, Gateway South, 3rd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and
adjacent to Walterscheid Boulevard, south of W. Fox Farm Road).  Ms. Ash moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all members of  the
governing body present.
[CA] Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2012 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 & 16-4-113. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5367)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for The Crossroads
Center, Second Filing, a replat of a portion of Lots 2 and 4, and all of Lot 3, Block 2, The Crossroads
Center, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Greenway Street, east of College
Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5368)
Resolution granting, with conditions, an exception for development of a small wastewater
system pursuant to the ‘201 Agreement’ and authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a
development agreement for property described as a tract of land in N1/2N1/2NE1/4NE1/4 of Section
11, Township 13 North, Range 67 West, of the 6th P.M. (a/k/a 4121 West 5th Street), Cheyenne,
Laramie County, Wyoming.  Ms. Ash moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Ms. Ash moved to
amend by substitute dated as to form March 26, 2012, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Brief history of the
agenda item topic and purpose of the proposed substitute were noted.  It was advised the applicant
has agreed to annex two parcels now and a third parcel in the future in exchange for the exception
to ‘201 agreement’ provisions, and that the exception will be in effect for 10 years.  Upon inquiry
and with no objection ra ised by City Council members, Mayor Kaysen stated he would open the
floor again for comments from the public due to the substitute being proposed.  Ray Martin, legal
counsel for the applicant, expressed appreciation to staff and governing body members for their
willingness to work together to reach a compromise for the best interests of all parties.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Comments followed
regarding Wyo. Dept. of Transportation’s shortage of funding for road projects and concern that an
anticipated reconstruction project expected to involve some of the land may  not move forwa rd,
affecting the exception and tempora ry permit for the  small wastewater system.  Main motion as
amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”. (#5369)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for College Business
Park, 3rd Filing, a replat of a portion of Tract 101 and all of Tracts 102, 103 and 104, Sunnyside
Addition, Fourth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and a djacent to N. Coll ege Drive,
between Laramie and Charles Streets) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Gateway South,
3rd F iling, a r eplat of L ots 1, 2, 4 and 5, Bloc k One, Ga teway South, 2nd Filing, Chey enne,
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of W. Fox Farm Road and Walterscheid
Boulevard) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution approving Sanitary Sewer Service, by Outside User Agreement, with Michael
Moore, 3133 Lindblom Court, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Resolution recognizing and Supporting the use of Fiscal Year 2011-2012 Ward 1
Contingency funds and 2011-2014 Optional One Percent Sales Tax funds for the construction of a
new Tennis Court in Martin Luther King, Jr., Park -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Ms.
Ash).
[CA] Resolution approving a proposition to impose the 1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax
in Laramie County, State of Wyoming, for the exclusive purpose of funding specific purposes for
specific amounts; the propositions to be voted on at the Primary Election to be held on Tuesday,
August 21, 2012 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins,
Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez, Mayor Kaysen).
[CA] Professional Servic es L etter of Intent betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Kaiser  and
Company, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to refinance outstanding Series 2003 Revenue Bonds for the City
Center Parking Structure (postponed from March 12, 2012).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5810)
Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County Community
Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth at Carey Junior
High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Five grant funds).  Ms. Ash declaredst
a conflict of interest (employment conflict) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  F ollowing announcement of the vote, Ms. Ash returned to
Council Chambers. (#5811) 
Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County Community
Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth at Johnson
Junior High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Four grant funds).  Ms. Ashst
declared a conflict of interest (employment conflict) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Ms. As h
returned to Council Chambers. (#5812)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City prisoners at the Laramie County
Detention Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5813)
[CA] Professional Se rvices Agreement b etween th e City  of  Che yenne a nd Al l T raffic Da ta
Services, Inc. for data collection for the Updated Turning Movement Count Project (Metropolitan
Planning Organization (MPO) Federal funding) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] User Ag reement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and
Cheyenne Warriors Football Club, LLC, for the purpose of holding arena football games and related
practices at the City of Cheyenne-owned Ice and Events Center -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Stride Learning Center,  to
provide a  Chey enne T ransit bus to use in service  of Stride’s Clie nts -- refe rred to Financ e
Committee.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Tatooine Electronic
Systems, Inc., for recycling of electronic waste received at the Felix Pino Transfer Station Waste
Facility and Happy Jack Landfill -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Contract Modifica tion No. 2 to Cont ract No. 5496 betwee n th e City of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and Ayres Associates for additional design services for the East Pershing
Boulevard reconstruction project (Phase IV) (2003-2006, 2007-2010 1% Sales Tax, Board of Public
Utilities, Federal Highway Administration funds) (postponed from March 12, 2012).  Mr. Brown
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  It was clarified the substitute provides for an increase in the modification amount
to $41,645.00 for additional design work.  Doug Vetter, City Engineer, advised the modification was
originally intended to have the consultant reconfigure the East Pershing project in two separate
corridors, and with the amendment an additional segment is being included to extend the projec t
west by seven blocks due to additional federal funds that are available.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Vetter
estimated construction cost for the additional segment will be about $400,000.00.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Comments followed regarding
funding and splitting the project into phases, additional segment and related design cost ($21,175.00)
per the amendment, and  previous demolition of two houses in the projec t area.  Main motion as
amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#5496)
Amendment No. 1 to Professional Services Agreement/Contract No. 5613 between the City
of Cheyenne on behalf of the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization and Felsburg, Holt and
Ullevig for South Greeley Highway Corridor Plan - Supplemental B udget Request.  Pat Crank,
attorney repr esenting local busi ness owner Maury  Br own, spoke in opposition to the plan as
currently drafted.  He e xplained his client is co ncerned about highway traffic control struc tures
envisioned in  the  pla n th rough im plementation o f r aised me dians; effect of  lim ited a ccess t o
businesses in the area, and proposed future side road accesses along the “backside” of businesses.
Mr. Crank provided information on stakeholders’ meetings that had been held to receive public
comments in c onjunction w ith fo rmulation o f t he pla n, no ting tha t Mr . Brown  a nd/or his
representative had voiced opposition to the raised median concept at the meetings, and encouraged
consideration of other alter natives.  H e spoke in opposit ion to the proposed ame ndment to the
agreement, stating the additional services to be provided, which includes more time to receive  public
comments, was not a serious commitment to listen to residents and business owners in the ar ea
pursuant to their previous input.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Crank reviewed stakeholders’ meetings held so
far and made  statements in support of the c onsultant and MPO staff listening to those who ha d
voiced opposition to the concept of raised medians.  Mark Shubert, business owner in South Greeley
Highway area, spoke in opposition to the plan and the proposed amendment.  He commented on lack
of communication with business owners; raised median concerns; out of state consultants; MPO
authority; state highway department involvement and timing r egarding reconstruction plans, and
suggested o ther t raffic fl ow options in  lie u o f r aised me dians.  Joh n Pa lmer e xpressed h is
concurrence with most of Mr. Shubert’s comments and spoke in opposition to the plan and cost of
the study.  Tom Mason, MPO Director, reviewed the project generally, stating the need for a corridor
plan had been identified by MPO committ ee members, consisting of representatives of City and
County governments and State WYDOT, as a  planning project.  He explained this is a long ter m
project, which will not be implemented in the nea r future, to pro-ac tively address the corr idor’s
traffic problems.  He  stated a w ide variety of solution options  are being reviewed and that the
amendment will ena ble the consultant to continue w ork on the plan, w hich includes ad ditional
meetings with the pu blic and property owners in the area, and the goal is to address, t hrough
planning, the best way to deal with traffic issues and anticipated future volume increases on South
Greeley highway.  He a dvised the consultant, a Colora do firm, is a wel l known transpor tation
planning firm and was selected to provide initial service s through the usual review and approval
process.  Up on inquiry, Mr. Mas on described the purpose of raised center medians as a safety
solution and current problems associated with numerous points of acc ess to properties along the
corridor; stated the draft plan and initial maps are not y et finalized as a policy statement and are
subject t o re vision(s), an d p rovided i nformation o n planning fo r f uture ar ea gro wth t hrough
additional north-south roads, tra ffic safety solutions and curre nt volume of traffi c.  Mr. Mason
advised efforts of the study will also help with beautification along the corridor by including a plan
for sidewalks and bike ways, etc.  Mr. Mason provided clarification on additional expenses related
with the amendment; information on the consultant’s work achieved under the original proposal and
additional work pursuant to the amendment, and noted the final plan will be presented to the public
and property owners and also to the MPO committee and City  and County governing bodies for
approval.  Upon inquiry as to status of the plan if the  amendment was not approved, Mr. Mason
indicated MPO staff will take what information they have and try to finalize, but the plan may not
be complete.  Discussion included the following topics: Raised center medians; service roads and
traffic circulation; access issues that may affect property owners; traffic volume along the corridor;
initial scope of the pr oject; rights-of-way acquisition conce rns af filiated with future  are a
developments or redevelopments; stakeholders’ meetings; purpose of the amendment, which will
include additional stakeholders’ meetings, and provisions of the orig inal agreement and cost of
consultant’s services to date.  During discussion, Mr. Mason provided additional information upon
request and noted the City’s governing body serves as the fiscal agent for the MPO.  Mr. Shubert
expressed his concerns with the effect of raised medians/barriers on businesses; communication with
stakeholders, and traf fic flow issues a nd alterna tives.  Dino Moncec chi, resident in the a rea,
suggested waiting to do a final plan based upon an updated traffic analysis when WYDOT is closer
to acquiring funding to do reconstruction of the highway.  Bob McCue, stating he does work for Mr.
Brown, spoke in opposition to the amendment, commenting  on the cost involved to complete the
plan and questioning whether provisions of the initial contract required the consultant to produce a
deliverable product.  Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $20,050.00.  Motion
died due to lack of a second to the motion.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5697 between the City of Cheyenne and STC
Construction Co., C heyenne, Wyoming, for bridge repairs on the W estland Road Ove rlay and
Improvements Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $19,089.35). (#5697)
[CA] Amendment Number Six to Cooperative Agreement, Contract No. 4968, between the City
of Cheyenne and Wyoming Department of Transportation for reconstruction of Pershing Boulevard
from  I-25 to Pioneer Avenue (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-23-12 for furnishing stage drapery for the City of Cheyenne Civic
Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (Rose Brand Wipers, Inc., Secaucus, NJ; amount not
to exceed $46,125.00)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-30-12 for surplus sale of one Express Dual 1000 reel grinder, one
Anglemaster 2000 bed knife grinder, and one Toro greens aerator for the City of Cheyenne, Parks
and Recreation Department, Golf Division.  M otion (per Consent Agenda) carried (Custer Golf
Corp. d/b/a Rock Knolls Golf Course, Custer, SD; revenue to the City $4,512.00)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-11-12 for  annual Contrac t between the City  of Cheyenne and
Simon Contractor, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for annual Contract for furnishing aggregate for the Street
and Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $4.60/ton). (#5814)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-12-12 for annual Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Knife
River, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for annual Contract for hot plant mix, asphalt tack oil and cold mix for
the Street and Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (hot
mix $52.35/ton; tack oil $1.10/gallon; cold mix $78.50/ton). (#5815)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-13-12 for Contract betwe en the City  of Chey enne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Chalk Buttes Landscaping, Inc., Douglas, Wyoming, for Lions Park
Remediation project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $136,698.00).
(#5816)
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-31-12 for furnishing 68 new de sktop computers for  the City of
Cheyenne, Information Technology Division, pursuant to the City ’s replacement program (2011-
2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
   
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-14-12 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Street and
Alley and 1% Construction Divisions, and Miller & Sons Construction, Inc.,  Cheyenne, Wyoming,
for the annual concrete overlay project (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-26-12 for furnishing one new 2012 stake bed truck from Spradley
Barr Motors, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste fund) -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-27-12 for f urnishing one  new se mi-truck fr om Peterbilt of
Wyoming, Ch eyenne, Wyoming, f or the  Sa nitation D ivision ( Solid Wa ste fu nd) - - refer red to
Finance Committee.
  
Appointment of Catherine  Nicho las and Maida  Wedell to the Arts I n Public Pl aces
Committee.  Mr. Collins moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote
(Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, April 9, 2012 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Fiscal Year 2012-2013
Annual Action Plan, City of Cheyenne Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) entitlement.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, April 9, 2012 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a Bar and Grill liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Blazin Wings, Inc. d/b/a Buffalo Wi ld
Wings Grill & Bar, 1740 Prairie Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:25 p.m.
      
 Submitted by,
 
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
April 5, 2012