MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-04-09 | CLIP_ID: 291 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 291

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
April 9, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil Chambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker
and Mr. Valdez. Absent:  Mr. Allen. Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney. The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Ms. Ash, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Collins and Dr. Rinne, agenda item #24(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Collins
moved to approve  remaining Consent Agenda items, sec onded by Mr. B rown.  Motion car ried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on Marc h 26, 2012. Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for Fiscal Year 2012-
2013 Annual Ac tion Pl an, City of Chey enne Community  Deve lopment Block G rant (CDB G)
entitlement.  Deanne Widauf, Housing and Community Development Program Manager, provided
an overview of the CDBG entitlement program; reviewed the annual action plan, which is consistent
with the 5 year Comprehensive Consolidated Plan, and the City=s estimated entitlement allocation
amount of $375,173.00, which is 21% le ss than last year, and anticipated program income in the
amount of $5,000.00.  She noted funds have been utilized for programs that address decent housing,
homeless prevention, senior and youth needs, special population needs, neighborhood revitalization,
and expanding economic opportunities.  Ms. Widauf explained the grant application process; public
notifications and opportunities for input, and review and recommendations of eligible applications
by the Advisory Council.  She reviewed the Advisory Council=s proposed recommended public
service projects ($55,000.00) and general service projects ($109,400.00) f or funding, including
program administration ($76,034.00), and estimated funding allocation amount for each project.
Upon inquiry regarding an application that was previously received relative to funding for a tennis
court at the Martin Luther King, Jr., Park, Ms. Widauf provided an explanation of why the project
was ineligible under HUD criteria.  She clarified Parks and Recreation Dept. has since submitted
another application for funding to assist with irrigation, electrical work and sod at the park, which
should meet funding eligibility requirements.  There being no further comments and purpose of the
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a Bar and Grill
liquor license application filed with the City  Clerk=s Office for Blazin Wings, Inc. d/b/a Buffalo
Wild Wings Grill & B ar, 1740  Prairie Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  B rian Proffitt, attorney
representing the applicant, introduc ed Jack Van B rocklin, regional manager, and Pam Cannon,
general manager of the Thornton, CO re staurant and regional alcohol trainer. They reviewed the
history and concept of Buffalo Wild Wings restaurants, utilization of the comprehensive alcohol
server BARS (Be A Responsible Server) training program and plans for the Cheyenne restaurant
(anticipated opening date scheduled for mid-November).  Comments followed regarding the local
safe rides program and the TIPS (Training for Intervention ProcedureS) alcohol server program.
Upon inquiry, Mr. Proffitt advis ed he ha s reviewed Wyoming laws and code  requirements and
restrictions regarding alcohol services and training.  There being no further comments and purpose
of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the application to
Finance Committee.
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Zoning Districts Established, and
Section 17.08.040, Chey enne City  Map, of the Che yenne City  Code, by  chang ing the  zoning
classification f rom MU B Mixe d U se wi th B usiness E mphasis a nd MR- 2 M edium D ensity
Residential B Developing Districts to CB Community Business District for Lots 1-10, Block One,
College Business Park, 3rd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to N. College
Drive, between Laramie and Charles Streets).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash
moved to approve on third and final r eading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#3945)
Ordinance amending Title 17, Z oning, Chapter 17.08, Z oning Districts Established, and
Section 17.08.040, Cheyenne City Map, of the Cheyenne City Code, by changing the z oning
classification f rom CB  Com munity B usiness District to  HR -2 Hi gh D ensity Re sidential -
Developing District for Lot 4, Block One, Gateway South, 3rd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
east of and adjacent to Walterscheid Boulevard, south of W. Fox Farm Road).  Steve Broadbent,
present on behalf of Gateway South and Sundance Apartments, advised he was available to answer
any questions.  Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Upon inquiry regarding the Walterscheid and Allison Rd. intersection, Nathan Beauheim, Asst. City
Engineer, stated Laramie County is looking at rebuilding Allison Rd. in the future and advised the
Allison Corridor Plan includes this location.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present. (#3946).
Resolution au thorizing t he M ayor a nd t he C ity C lerk t o s ign a F inal P lat for C ollege
Business Park, 3rd Filing, a replat of a portion of Tra ct 101 and a ll of Trac ts 102, 103 and 104,
Sunnyside Addition, Fourth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to N. College
Drive, between Laramie and Charles Streets).  Ms. Ash moved to adopt with staff condition #1,
seconded by  Ms. Broy les.  I t was cla rified the sta ff c ondition provides that infrastruc ture
reimbursement must be satisfied bef ore signatures will be affixed to the map.  Motion ca rried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5370)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Gateway South,
3rd F iling, a r eplat of L ots 1, 2, 4 and 5, Block One, Ga teway South, 2nd Filing, Chey enne,
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of W. Fox Farm Road and Walterscheid
Boulevard).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5371)
[CA] Resolution approving Sanitary Sewer Service, by Outside User Agreement, with Michael
Moore, 3133 Lindblom Court, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5372)
[CA] Resolution R ecognizing and Supporting  the use of F iscal Year  2011-2012 Ward 1
Contingency funds and 2011-2014 Optional One Percent Sales Tax funds for the construction of a
new Tennis Court in Martin Luther King, Jr., Park.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5373)
[CA] Resolution approving a proposition to impose the 1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax
in Laramie County, State of Wyoming, for the exclusive purpose of funding specific purposes for
specific amounts; the propositions to be voted on at the Primary Election to be held on Tuesday,
August 21, 2012.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5374)
[CA] Resolution approving the City of Cheyenne=s 2012- 2013 Annual Action Plan prepared by
the Cheyenne Housing and Communi ty Development Office -- r eferred to Financ e Committ ee
(sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
Resolution designating the Mayor and Councilman Jim Brown to meet and confer with the
International Association of Fire Fighters, Local Union No. 279, to develop a proposed 2012 - 2013
Collective Labor Agreement for the Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown and Mr. Collins).  Mr. Brown advised the item had been reviewed
under other items for the agenda at the April 2, 2012 Finance Committee meeting and provisions
of Title 2 of City Code had been met.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon
inquiry, City Attorney Dan White advised the resolution was requested by the Union and its attorney
and will authorize the Mayor and Mr. Brown to negotiate provisions of the proposed contract, which
is subject to final approva l by the g overning body.  He indica ted the resolution is  a Agood faith
effort@ by the City and provides for continuing negotiations, advising that the arbitration process has
been initiated due to state statute time frame requirements.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen provided
information on members of the City=s negotiating team as named in the ground rules.  Discussion
topics included: Prior approval of ground rules by the Union with regard to recognition of the City=s
named negotiators; purpose of the  resolu tion and whether it was nee ded; firefighter collective
bargaining statutory requirements; procedures u tilized by other Wy oming municipal g overning
bodies to au thorize negotiators; designating all members of  the g overning body vs. May or and
Councilman Brown and a ffiliated negotiation meetings if a  quorum of the governing body was
present; timing of the Union=s request for the resolution; arbitration process and current status of
selecting arbitrators; continuing negotiations, even though arbitration has begun, as allowed by state
law, and comments in support as well as non-support of the resolution.  During discussion and upon
inquiry, Mr. White provided information on topics raised and explained the Union requested the
resolution as it believes there is a technicality in the ground rules regarding who is authorized on
behalf of the City to negotiate; advised the resolution will provide for continuing negotiations even
though the arbitration process has begun, and re viewed the effect on c urrent negotiations if the
resolution is not adopted.  He discussed designating all members of the governing body vs. Mayor
and Councilman B rown and meeting procedures involving a quorum; provided info rmation on
negotiations vs. the arbitration process; the City=s next fiscal year budget time frame relative to
negotiations and arbitra tion, and reviewed c onducting neg otiations in closed vs. public venue
sessions.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne and
Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez. (#5375)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for North Cheyenne
Community Park, Second Filing, a replat of North Cheyenne Community Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located north of and adjacent to Storey Boulevard, east of and adjacent to Chief Washakie Avenue)
-- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution authorizing an amended Final Plat to accompany Resolution #5295 B as adopted
by the Governing Body on July 11, 2011 for Niobrara Energy Park, a replat of a portion of Tracts
6, 17, & 18, Clear View Tracts, a portion of C.B.C. Subdivison, and a portion of the N2 of Section
9, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P .M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of South Coll ege Drive
(behind Lighthouse Baptist Church), north of Laramie County Community College) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution providing for the review and approval of the South Cheyenne Water and Sewer
District=s application for three Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Gr ant applications
before the Wyoming State Loan and Investment Board for the Orchard Valley Sanitary Sewer Main
Replacement Project -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2012 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Brown).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Saddle Ridge Subdivision, 4  Filing. a replat of Lots 1-19, 21, and 23,th
Block 14, and Lots 1-27, Block 15, located in the S2 NW3 and N2 SW3, Section 25, T.14N.,
R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of Whitney Road, between Laramie Street andth
Countryside Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Preliminary P lat fo r Lincoln Ad dition, S econd Fi ling, a re plat o f a po rtion o f Tract B,
Lincoln Addition, and abandone d Wy oming De partment of Tra nsportation rig ht-of-way being
situated in a portion of Section 1, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north
of and adjacent to West Lincolnway, between Westland Road and Stinson Avenue) -- referred to
Public Services Committee.  
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Campstool Addition, Fourth Filing, situate in portions of the NE3 of
Section 31, and the NW 3 of Section 32, T.14N., R.65W., 6  P.M. and a re plat of a  portion ofth
Campstool Additi on, First F iling, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of a nd adjac ent to I -80
Service Road, east of Industry Road and south of Venture Drive) -- referred to Public Services
Committee.
[CA] Professional Se rvices A greement b etween the City  of  Che yenne a nd Al l T raffic Da ta
Services, Inc. for data collection for the Updated Turning Movement Count Project (Metropolitan
Planning Organization (MPO) Federal funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $42,350.00). (#5821)
[CA] User Agreement between the City of Chey enne, Parks and Recr eation Department, and
Cheyenne Warriors Football Club, LLC, for the purpose of holding arena football games and related
practices at the City  of Cheyenne-owned Ice and Events Center.  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#5822)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Stride Learning Center, to
provide a Cheyenne Transit bus to use in service of Stride=s Clients.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5823)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Tatooine Electronic
Systems, Inc., for recycling of electronic waste received at the Felix Pino Transfer Station Waste
Facility and Ha ppy Jack Landfill.  Motion (per Consent  Agenda) carried (amount not to ex ceed
$160,000.00/2 year agreement). (#5824) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Municipal Court, and Laramie County Sheriff=s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for Municipal Court security services -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Josh Cossitt to provide tennis services and
instruction for the 2012 season -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for School Resour ce Off icers for summer sc hool 2012 -- re ferred to F inance
Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Boys and Girls Club o f Cheyenne, Inc. for
lease of City-owned real property located at 1700 Snyder Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred
to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Cheyenne
Girls Softball Association for c oncession services at Converse Softball Complex  and B rimmer
Softball Complex for 2012, 2013 and 2014 -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment Number Six to Cooperative Agreement, Contract No. 4968, between the City
of Cheyenne and Wyoming Department of Transportation for reconstruction of Pershing Boulevard
from  I-25 to Pioneer Avenue (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#4968) 
Consideration of B id #R-31-12 for f urnishing 68 ne w desktop co mputers for the City of
Cheyenne, Information Technology Division, pursuant to the City=s replacement program (2011-
2014 1% Sales  Tax).  Mr. Br own moved to ac cept the bid f rom Zone, Inc., Auburn, WA, in an
amount not to exceed $39,728.32, se conded by  Mr. Valde z.  Upon inquiry , There sa Sny der,
Information Te chnology Direc tor, provided infor mation on the number of  desktop computers
utilized by employees vs. laptops, and verified current replacement program guidelines pertain to
desktop computers only not laptops, which are more expensive.  Comment foll owed regarding
whether it would be benef icial to utilize more laptops with docking  stations instead of re placing
desktop computers.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”.
   
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-14-12 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Street and
Alley and 1% Construction Divisions, and Miller & Sons Construction, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming,
for the annual concrete overlay project (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $551,216.50). (#5825)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-26-12 for furnishing one new 2012 stake bed truck from Spradley
Barr Motors, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Sanitation Division (Sol id Waste fund).  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $36,972.00). 
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-27-12 for f urnishing one  new se mi-truck fr om Peterbilt of
Wyoming, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Sanitation Divisio n (Solid Waste fund).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $128,861.00).
[C A] Consideration of Bid #R-28-12 for furnishing one new 2012 front end wheel loader from Tri-
State Truck & Equipment, Casper, Wyoming, for Street and Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales
Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Under other business, Glora dene Steve nson reque sted confirmation of ac tion on the
resolution for funds for the construction of a new tennis court at Martin Luther King, Jr., Park with
Mayor Kaysen clarifying the resolution was a pproved pursuant to the vote on Consent Ag enda
items.  Upon further  inquiry  by  Ms. Stevenson reg arding CDBG prog ram funds f or par k
improvements, Mayor Kaysen advised he would request the Housing and Community Development
manager contact her to explain program funding eligibility criteria.
  
There being no further business to c ome before the governing body, the m eeting was
officially adjourned at 7:06 p.m.
      
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
April 23, 2012