MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-04-23 | CLIP_ID: 293 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 293

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
April 23, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: MAYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Brown moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Mee ting of  the Gover ning B ody on April  9, 2012. Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Upon inquiry, Rick Parish, Parks and Rec reation Director, reviewed a vouche r payable to Ar t
Casting of Colorado relating to services to recast a bronze statue located in Lions Park that had been
vandalized.  He stated Arts in Public Places budgeted funds are being utilized as the amount is under
the City’s ins urance de ductible a mount.  Brief comments we re ma de re garding c oncerns w ith
vandalism and resulting costs.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
An Ord inance amending the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation Fee Schedule -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution approving the City of Cheyenne=s 2012- 2013 Annual Action Plan prepared by
the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5376)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for North Cheyenne
Community Park, Second Filing, a replat of North Cheyenne Community Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located north of and adjacent to Storey Boulevard, east of and adjacent to Chief Washakie Avenue).
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to adopt with staff recommendations #1
and 2, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body. (#5377)
[CA] Resolution authorizing an amended Final Plat to accompany Resolution #5295 B as adopted
by the Governing Body on July 11, 2011 for Niobrara Energy Park, a replat of a portion of Tracts
6, 17, & 18, Clear View Tracts, a portion of C.B.C. Subdivison, and a portion of the N2 of Section
9, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P .M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of South Coll ege Drive
(behind Lighthouse Baptist Church), north of Laramie County Community College.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5378)
Resolution providing for the review and approval of the South Cheyenne Water and Sewer
District=s application for three Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant applications
before the Wyoming State Loan and Investment Board for the Orchard Valley Sanitary Sewer Main
Replacement Project.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by
Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  It was noted the
substitute inserts the word “staff” following the word “utilities” in the 6  “Whereas” clause.  Motionth
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5379)
[CA] Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2012 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5380)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor to sign a Memorandum of Understanding with Laramie
County to apply for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant
(Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne to accomplish the Crow Creek Water Reclamation Facility Improvements
Project -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant
(Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for the Snyder Avenue Sewer Rehabilitation Project: West 24  Street toth
West Pershing  Boulevard -- referred to F inance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown an d Mr.
Collins).
[CA] Resolution prioritizing two Mineral Royalty Chapter 3 Grant requests to the State Loan and
Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution approving Sanitary Sewer Service, by User’s Agreement, for Everett Winkler,
2619 Whitney Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
Preliminary Plat for Saddle Ridge Subdivision, 4  Filing, a replat of Lots 1-19, 21, and 23,th
Block 14, and Lots 1-27, Block 15, located in the S2 NW3 and N2 SW3, Section 25, T.14N.,
R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of Whitney Road, between Laramie Street andth
Countryside Avenue).  Ms. Ash moved to acknowledge receipt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Ms. Ash
moved t o amend to replace pages 1 and 2 of the staff report and to acknowledge receipt of the
preliminary plat with staff recommendations #2, 3, 5, 7 and 8, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body.  Main motion as amende d
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Preliminary P lat for Lincoln Ad dition, S econd Fi ling, a re plat o f a po rtion o f Tract B,
Lincoln Addition , and abandone d Wy oming De partment of T ransportation rig ht-of-way being
situated in a portion of Section 1, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north
of and adjacent to West Lincolnway, between Westland Road and Stinson Avenue.  Ms. Ash moved
to acknowledge receipt with staff recommendation #1, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry,
Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for the applicant, verified the initial conceptual design had changed to
now include two hotels a nd a re staurant.  M otion carried.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the
governing body.
Preliminary Plat for Campstool Addition, Fourth Filing, situate in portions of the NE3 of
Section 31, and the NW 3 of Section 32, T.14N., R.65W., 6  P.M. and a r eplat of a  portion ofth
Campstool Additi on, First F iling, Cheyenne, Wy oming (located north of and a djacent to I -80
Service Road, east of Industry Road and south of Venture Drive).  Ms. Ash moved to acknowledge
receipt with staff re commendations #1, 3,  4 and 5, seconded by  Ms. Broy les.  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Municipal Court, and Laramie County Sheriff=s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for Municipal Court security services.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5826)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Josh Cossitt to provide tennis services and
instruction for the 2012 season.  Motion (pe r Consent Ag enda) carried (revenue to the City  --
$600.00). (#5827)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for School Resour ce Officers for summer school.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#5828)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Boys and Girls Club of Cheyenne, Inc. for
lease of City-owned real property located at 1700 Snyder Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City -- $12.00). (#5829)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Cheyenne
Girls Softball Association for conc ession services at Converse Softba ll Complex and Brimmer
Softball Complex for 2012, 2013 and 2014.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the
City -- $1,750.00/annually). (#5830)
[CA] Agreement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Merc er G roup, I nc., for  a Perso nnel
Organizational, Classification and Compensation Study  and Ana lysis -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and
Laramie Cou nty, Wy oming, to  pr ovide pu blic tr ansportation s ervices to  L aramie Cou nty
Community College, City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to
the City -- referred to Finance Committee.
[C A] Consideration of Bid #R-28-12 for furnishing one new 2012 front end wheel loader from Tri-
State Truck & Equipment, Casper, Wyoming, for Street and Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales
Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $198,640.00).
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-29-12 for fu rnishing on e ne w 2 012 s tationary so lid wa ste
knuckleboom crane from Ameri-Tech Equipment Company, Casper, Wyoming, for Solid Waste
Transfer Station (Solid Waste Management fund) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-32-12 f or fu rnishing thr ee ne w 2 012 c ab a nd c hassis w ith
automated high dump refuse side loader body from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-33-12 for furnishing five new 2012 cab and chassis with automated
refuse c ollection packer s with dual arm side loade rs from Peter bilt of W yoming, Chey enne,
Wyoming, f or Sanitation Division (Sol id Waste Manag ement fund)  --  ref erred to Fina nce
Committee.  
[CA] Application for a Bar and Grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office
for Blazin Wings, Inc. d/b/a B uffalo Wild Wings Grill & B ar, 1740 Pra irie Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Howard A. Hill, Sr., to the Mayor’s Council
for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed May 14, 2012.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, May 14, 2012 at 6:00 p.m.
in Cit y Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue , Chey enne, Wy oming, to dete rmine whe ther
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist  for a parcel of land
being situated in a portion of the N ½ of the N½ of  the NE¼ of the NE¼ of Section 11, T.13N.,
R.67W. of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located at the end of West 5th Street,
west of Southwest Drive, a/k/a 4121 W. 5th Street).
[CA]  Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne
at the 2012 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Annual Convention -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee.
Under other business:
Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised th ere would not be a City  Council Publ ic Services
Committee meeting on Tuesday, May 8, 2012 at Noon in Room 122, Municipal Building, as there
were no pending or referred items for the agenda requiring a meeting.
Upon request, Ms. Intlekofer read the following entitlement for an item being introduced
under other business:  “2012-2013 Collective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, a nd Chey enne F irefighters L ocal Union No. 279, I nternational Association of
Firefighters” with Mayor Kaysen referring the item to Finance Committee.  It was noted the next
Finance Committee meeting will be held on Monday , May 7, 2012 at 11:00 a.m. in Room 122,
Municipal Building.
Appreciation was expressed to Leadership Cheyenne and Cheyenne Cottonwood Society
volunteers, Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power, Rocky Mountain Landscaping and City staff who
contributed toward and assisted with the recent planting of 35 trees in David R. R omero South
Cheyenne Community Park.
There being  no further  business to come before the g overning body , May or Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 6:16  p.m.
      
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
April 30, 2012