MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-05-14 | CLIP_ID: 295 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 295

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
May 14, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: MAYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and
Mr. Valdez.  A bsent: Mr. Brown.  A lso present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, Ci ty
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Collins  moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Ms Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on April 23, 2012. Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez declared a conflict of interest (business interest in Radio Station KYOY FM) and
vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Collins moved to appro ve payment of vouche rs as pre sented,
seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carr ied.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Valdez returned to Council
Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a Publ ic Hearing to determine w hether compliance of anne xation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of
the N½ of the N½ of the NE¼ of the NE¼ of Section 11, T.13N., R.67W. of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming (generally located at the end of West 5th Street, west of Southwest Drive, a/k/a
4121 W. 5th Street).  Jim Flesher, Urban Planning Office, reviewed requirements and compliance
of conditions c ontained in Wy o. Stat. §15- 1-402, including specific information i ndicating
compliance with Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 (a)(i) through (vi).  Upon inquiry, Mr. Flesher advised there
is a building currently located on the property and stated annexation of the parcel was pursuant to
an exception to the 201 agreement recently approved by the governing body.  There being no further
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public
hearing.
An Ordinance amending the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation Fee Schedule.  Jim Elias, Public
Works Director, advised City ordinance requires an annual review of the fee schedule with rate
increases based upon the Southeast Wyoming Consumer Price Index (CPI), which is currently 4.1%,
and that the proposed fee increases are in the amount of 4.1% for commercial and residential solid
waste collection and dis posal services.  Mr. Elias repor ted that a 1%  increase was approved for
Fiscal Year 2011 (C PI was 3.4%) and no incr ease was approved for Fiscal Year 2012 (CPI was
3.2%).  He  noted increased costs in City operations involving expanded areas of service due to
population and commercial growth, and expansion of services in such areas as curbside recycling,
lawn waste, electronic waste and household hazardous waste.  He advised the proposed rates will
increase the monthly fee to a ty pical residential customer by $0.85 and the a verage commercial
account (one pick-up a week) by $3.00 a month.  J oe McCord expressed concerns regarding the
proposed increase, costs for roll-off containers, and Sanitation truck routes, and requested Sanitation
policies be reviewed to determine efficiency of pick-up routes.  Reporting for Finance Committee,
Mr. Spiker moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Elias
stated his belief that the City is competitive cost-wise in pricing for roll-off containers compared to
private haulers, and explained route patterns that are utilized involving alleys and on-street pick-ups
involving the automated container pick-up process.  He further advised that the increase in funding
from the proposed rate increases would assist to off-set costs, such as transportation costs affiliated
with fuel, maintenance, repairs, parts and tires.  Concern was expressed regarding the method of
billing for multiple business tenants located in one building, and recycling fees assessed involving
multiple tenants within residential apartment-type buildings.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.
An Ordinance approving and establishing revised water rates, sewer rates, tap fees, system
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and pe nalties and septic a nd commercial
dump rates, a s recommended by the B oard of Public Utili ties -- re ferred to F inance Committee
(sponsors - Mr. Brown, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Valdez).
An Ordinance pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Z oning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified
Development Code by changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business-Emphasis
District to MR-2 Medium-Density Residential-Developing District for Diamond Estates, 3rd Filing,
a replat of the North 147.16 feet of Tract 327, Sunnyside Addition, 7th Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Fillmore Avenue and Rock Springs Street) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor to sign a Memorandum of Understanding with Laramie
County to apply for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5381)
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant
(Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne to accomplish the Crow Creek Water Reclamation Facility Improvements
Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5382)
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant
(Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for the Snyder Avenue Sewer Rehabilitation Project: West 24  Street toth
West Pershing Boulevard.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5383)
[CA] Resolution prioritizing two Mineral Royalty Chapter 3 Grant requests to the State Loan and
Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5384)
[CA] Resolution approving Sanitary Sewer Service, by User’s Agreement, for Everett Winkler,
2619 Whitney Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5385)
[CA] Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2012 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Brown).
[CA] Resolution authoriz ing submission of an application to t he Wy oming De partment of
Transportation for a Wy oming Rural Publi c Transportation Program Grant, for the  purpose of
assisting in providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit
Program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. § 5311 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown)
 
[CA]  Resolution approving the budget of the Downtown Development Authority for the Fiscal
Year beginning July 1, 2012 and ending June 30, 2013 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Brown).
[CA] Resolution authorizing and adopting Post-Issuance Compliance Policies and Procedures for
Tax-Exempt Bonds and other Tax-Exempt obligations -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Brown).
[CA] Resolution authoriz ing the  I ssuance and Sale by  the City of Chey enne, Wy oming, of
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series 2012, dated June 5, 2012 in a principal amount not to ex ceed
$9,325,000, for the purp ose of advance re funding and def easing the City ’s Refunding  and
Improvement R evenue B onds, Se ries 2 003; p rescribing the  fo rm of  sa id S eries 2 012 B onds;
providing for the pa yment of the princi pal and interest ther on; and ra tifying, a pproving and
confirming previ ous actions of offic ers a nd members of  the Gover ning B ody of the City  and
employees thereof -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
 
[CA] Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on City
projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2013 - 2014 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant funding -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on City
projects to be on the substitute list for 2013-2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Resolution determining that conditions for  annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402
exist for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of the N½ of the N½ of the NE¼ of the NE¼
of Section 11, T.13N., R.67W. of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located at the
end of West 5th Street, west of Southwest Drive, a/k/a 4121 W. 5th Street) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution amending the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plans for Fiscal Years 2009-2010
and 2011-2012 to utilize Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) unprogrammed funds for
an out-of-cycle grant -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
[CA] Resolution amending the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plan for Fiscal Year 2011-2012 --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the  City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for M
Robbins Subdivision, a replat of Tr act 27, Ar tesian Tracts, Laramie County, Wyoming (located
north of and adjacent to East Nation Road, betwe en South Greeley Highway and Avenue B-6) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA Resolution authoriz ing the  May or and the  City  Clerk to sign a  Coun ty Final Plat for
Welchester S ubdivision, a  r eplat o f t he W est H alf o f T ract 2 1, C restmoor, L aramie C ounty,
Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Welchester Drive, west of College Drive) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).  (sponsor - Ms. Ash)
[CA] Resolution a uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd the  City  Cle rk to s ign a  F inal Pla t f or L ewis
Subdivision, a replat of the south 127.41-feet of Tract 6, Evans Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the northeast corner of Wills Road and Laramie Street) -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash). 
[C A] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Kum & Go 952
Subdivision, a replat of Lots 2A and 2B, Stephens Addition and a portion of the Northwest 1/4 of
Section 34, Township 14 North, Rang e 66 West, of the Six th Principal Meridian, Chey enne,
Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of East Lincolnway and Ridge Road) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
Agreement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Merc er G roup, I nc., for a  Personnel
Organizational, Classification and Compensation Study and Analysis.  Rich Wiederspahn, Human
Resources Director, reviewed the Request for Proposal (RFP) process that was utilized resulting in
a recommendation from the City’s Employment Strategy Group (ESG) committee to enter into the
agreement with the Mercer Group.  He provided information on criteria used to evaluate and rank
proposals received; scope of services that will be provided under the agreement, and benefits to the
City involving an independent study and analysis.  Phillip Robertson, representative of the Mercer
Group, reviewed components that will be included in the study and analysis with regard to the areas
of compensation and classification, stating the classification portion will include review of positions
through use of employee questionnaires and interviews, overall point score based on 10 factors,  and
qualifications and skills needed to fulfill job descriptions, with the goal of providing information on
equal pay for equal work scenarios.  He noted that the compensation element will include a regional
salary survey and comparison with other similar market pay plans.  He advised that if the study and
analysis results reflect that certain salary areas should be adjusted, implementation of any
adjustments could be structured to occur over whatever time frame the City decides.  Upon inquiry,
Mr. Robertson stated the c lassification study would be conduc ted prior to the or ganizational
(staffing) study .  Commenting in support of the a greement wer e:  Vicki Ne mecek, Assistant
Director, Public W orks Department; Officer John Gay , representative for the Chey enne Police
Protective Association; Sara Vasquez, President, Cheyenne Public Employees Association (CPEA);
Todd Feezer, Assistant Director, Parks and Recreation Department, and member of the ESG; Claus
Johnson, City employee, former CPEA president and member of the ESG, and Robin L ockman,
Deputy City Treasurer and member of the ESG.  Comments included the following topics: Benefits
of the  stu dy a ssisting wi th e stablishing the worth of pa rticular j obs r elative to p ay sc ales;
information from the study helping the City with future planning as well as having a long term plan
in place for employees; having an employee master plan as a mechanism to provide administrative
guidance on staffing  and compe nsation levels;  study and analysis as a g ood investment when
compared to the percentage of budget attributed to employee costs (i.e. 74% of general fund budget
for Fiscal Year 2013 involves personnel costs); benefits of having a thorough analysis of salaries
to ascertain any minimum/maximum salary caps per classification; concerns with the City’s lack of
current competitiveness r elating to retention of curre nt employ ees a nd rec ruitment of new
employees affiliated with salary levels, and importance of an independent staffing level study by a
professional firm vs. City administrative staff.  Mr. Spiker reported there was no recommendation
on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Collins moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon
inquiry, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, clarified funding for the study is off-set from previous savings
on employee health insurance coverage costs.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Wiederspahn reviewed various
reasons that employees have left employment with the City, explaining his belief that it is critical
to focus on maintaining employees, and noted the importance of having a market pay plan that is
comparable with neighboring states and the need to review current pay plan inequities.  Discussion
included the following topics: Reasons to approve the study; employees expressing support for the
study; concern with lack of f unding to timely  implement any  salary adjustments that may  be
recommended; an analysis being helpful in determining staffing levels, and employee morale.  Upon
inquiry, Mr. Robertson clarified the scope of services for compensation areas to be studied does not
include consideration of the employee benefits package, noting that the factoring in of benefits into
a salary study is hard to measure as different types of benefits have different importance levels to
individual employees.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Mr. Pierson and Mr. Spiker voting “no”. (#5838)
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the City  of Chey enne, T ransit Division, and
Laramie Cou nty, Wy oming, to  pr ovide pu blic tr ansportation s ervices to  L aramie Cou nty
Community College, City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to
the City.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5839)
[CA] 2012-2013 Collective L abor Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming, and
Cheyenne Firefighters Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5840) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Naranjo
Civil C ontractors an d Ayres As sociates, Inc., fo r t he d esign an d co nstruction o f S addle R idge
Greenway, Phase I (Community Facility fees) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for use of the
parking lot located on the F.E. Warren Air Force Base for public transportation service during the
2012 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.
     
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School
District No. 1 for use of buses owned by the Laramie County School District No. 1 for pu blic
transportation service during the 2012 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for use of buses
owned by the Laramie County School District No. 1 for public tra nsportation service during the
2012 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., for usage of city-owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities associated
with the 2012 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and The Hartford for life and supplemental insurance
coverage for full time city employees -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of Wyoming for dental coverage
for full time city employees -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the City  of Cheyenne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Laramie County School District No.1 to provide transportation services for the
City’s Summer Recreation Camp Program -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5800 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Construction Specialists, Inc., for Powers Field Storage Shed (2011-
2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Amendment Number One to Funding Agreement, Contract No. 5657, between the City of
Cheyenne a nd Wy oming Department of T ransportation for the Ea st Pershing B oulevard
Reconstruction Project (2003-2006, 2007-2010 1% Sales Tax, Board of Public Utilities,  Federal
Highway Administration funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-29-12 f or fu rnishing one ne w 2 012 s tationary so lid wa ste
knuckleboom crane from Ameri-Tech Equipment Company, Casper, Wyoming, for Solid Waste
Transfer Station (Solid Waste Management fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $167,500.00).
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-32-12 f or fu rnishing thr ee ne w 2012 cab a nd c hassis w ith
automated high dump refuse side loader body from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management fund).  Motion (pe r Consent Agen da) car ried
(amount not to exceed $683,702.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-33-12 for furnishing five new 2012 cab and chassis with automated
refuse collec tion packer s with dual arm side loade rs from Peter bilt of Wyoming, Chey enne,
Wyoming, for Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $1,394,940.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-38-12 for the sale of surplus property described as the South 66 ft.
of Lots 9, 10 and 11, Bloc k 666, South C heyenne Addition, located within Section 5, T.13N.
R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (a/k/a 515 Morrie Avenue) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-39-12 for the sale of surplus property described as All of Lots 19
and 20, Block 665, South Cheyenne Addition, located within Section 5, T.13N.  R.66W., 6th P.M.,
Laramie County, Wyoming (a/k/a 916 E. 5th Street) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-40-12 for the sale of surplus property described as All of Lots 21
and 22, Block 665, South Cheyenne Addition, located within Section 5, T.13N.  R.66W., 6th P.M.,
Laramie County, Wyoming  (a/k/a 922 E. 5th Street) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-16-12 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works
Department, 1% Construction Division, and J TL Group I nc., d/b/a Knife  River, Chey enne,
Wyoming, for the Fiscal Year 2012 Milling and Utility Adjustments Project for Street and Alley
Division (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #M-17-12 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works
Department, 1% Construction Division, and S&S Builders, LLC, of Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the
Fiscal Year 2012 Miscellaneous Concrete/Intersection Repair Project (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1%
Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-15-12 for  a contr act between City  of Chey enne, Public Works
Department, 1% Constructi on Division, and J TL Group, I nc., d/b/a Knife  River, Chey enne,
Wyoming, for the Fiscal Year 2012 City Overlay Project (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-34-12 for furnishing three new 2012 cab and chassis with rear load
sanitation ref use collec tion bodies with ti ppers f or the Sanitation Division fro m Peterbilt of
Wyoming, Cheyenne, Wyoming (Solid Waste Management fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of Howard A. Hill, Sr., to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities.
Mr. Co llins mov ed to  a pprove, s econded b y Mr . A llen.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote
(Mayoral appointment).
[CA]  Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne
at the 2012 Wy oming Association of Municipalities Ann ual Convention.  Moti on (per Consent
Agenda) carried (Mayor Kaysen, Official Voting Delegate; City Clerk Carol Intlekofer, Alternate
Delegate).
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Micha el R. O’Donne ll to the Boar d of
Adjustment, to be confirmed May 29, 2012.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 29, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a restaurant
liquor license a pplication filed with the City  Clerk's Office for Judi Bufkin d/b/a Judi’s Cajun
Kitchen, 1719 Central Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
Announcement was made that due to the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 28, 2012,
the regularly scheduled meeting of the Governing Body will instead be held on Tuesday, May 29,
2012 beginning at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Under other business:
Announcement was made that a calcutta, benefitting the Cheyenne Boys and Girls Club, will
be held Thursday, June 7, 2012 beginning at 7:00 p.m. at Uncle Charlie’s Lounge, 6001 Yellowstone
Road, Che yenne, Wy oming, in  c onjunction w ith the  a nnual Uncle Cha rlie’s “ DONE” g olf
tournament (15% of proceeds to the Cheyenne Boys and Girls Club).
Upon inquiry, Rick Parish, Director, Parks and Recreation Department, provided information
concerning a  pa st Wy o. De pt. of  Tr ansportation ( WYDOT) beautification p roject on  Wes t
Lincolnway involving trees and landscaping areas that has resulted in future maintenance by the City
after completion of the project.  He noted department staff has worked on irrigation system repairs
and replacement of trees, which may be covered by warranty, and discussed the current status of the
trees and watering system.  Doug Vetter, City Engineer, advised when the project was accepted from
WYDOT last fall, it was his understa nding that the war ranty WYDOT had with the landsc ape
contractor for  the tree s would be extended to the City .  May or Ka ysen provided a dditional
information on staff contact with the landscape contractor involved.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Parish also
provided information on Forestry staff watering efforts for City tree areas along Pershing Blvd. and
staffing levels and olde r equipment a ffecting service s.  I t was noted that the D owntown
Development Authority also assists with watering trees downtown.
Upon inquiry regarding the status of replacing non-working lights on the Depot Plaza, Mayor
Kaysen advised the  initial lighting fixtures and ba llasts that were  installed have f ailed to work
properly; that a solution has been found and lighting replacements are in progress.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  governing body , May or Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 7:17 p.m.
      
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
May 21, 2012