MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-05-29 | CLIP_ID: 297 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 297

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
May 29, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.
Absent: Mr. Collins and Mr. Pierson.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance, led by members of the Mayor’s
Youth Council, was recited.
Expression of Appreciation to Mayor’s Youth Council and State of the Youth report.  Mayor
Kaysen and Jan Spires, May or’s Youth Council Coordinator, commended member s of the 2011-
2012 Mayor’s Youth Council and prese nted those members present with a cer tificate and gift of
appreciation. Those recognized were: Dean Jackson - Chair, Ian Dome - Vice-Chair, John Matsen -
Co-Secretary, Tyler Bedwell, Juliette Givhan, Joey Marchand, Robert McGarry, McKinzea Olsen,
Jacob Peterson and Gary Sayler.  Those members unable to attend were: Kadi Davis - Co-Secretary,
Addie Fleming and Margarita Medrano.  Mr. J ackson provided a State of  the Youth re port and
described various activities and issues the g roup was involved in during the  past year.  He noted
members lea rned va luable lessons with regar d to leade rship and educ ational experienc es that
included involvement with local government staff, tours of several City facilities and operations, and
participation in community efforts.  Mr. Jackson was presented with a plaque recognizing his service
during the past school year as chair of the Youth Council.  Mayor Kaysen expressed appreciation
to members for their time, commitment and dedication, and also to members’ families for their
support.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [C A] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Allen and Ms. Broyles,  agenda item #17 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 14, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of
vouchers a s p resented, se conded b y Mr . A llen.  Up on inq uiry re garding a  vo ucher p ayable to
Greenscape Designs, LLC, Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, and Mayor Kaysen provided
information on the project (i.e. West Lincolnway Southside Landscaping - corridor beautification).
They also provided information on a previous project initiated by WYDOT for similar efforts along
West Lincolnway involving status of the irr igation system, replacement of tre es and/or shr ubs
relative to warranty coverage, and watering of same.  In response to inquiry regarding a voucher
payable to Fort Collins Wholesale Nursery, Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, advised he
would re search th e pu rpose of  uti lizing the  no n-local ve ndor a nd pr ovide information to C ity
Council members.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to Long Building Technologies and
in conjunction with information provided  by Vicki Neme cek, Assistant Director, Public Works
Department, request was made to provide Council members with a written report on the status of
the energy efficiency project and recognized savings.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following  announcement of the vote, Mr .
Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a Public Hea ring to receive public comments and input for a
restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Judi Bufkin d/b/a Judi’s
Cajun Kitchen, 1719 Central Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Upon inquiry, it was noted the applicant
was not in attendance at the meeting.  There being no further comments or input, May or Kaysen
closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
Ordinance amending the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation Fee Schedule.  Jim Elias, Public
Works Director, verified that the proposed 4.1% increase involved “rounding” of some numbers,
which is why  the amounts proposed a re even numbers.  Reporting  for F inance Committee, Mr.
Brown moved to appr ove on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valde z.  Mot ion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#3947) 
Ordinance approving and establishing revised water rates, sewer rates, tap fees, s ystem
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and pe nalties and septic a nd commercial
dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Mr. Valde z.  Mot ion carried.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present.
Ordinance pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Zoning  Map Amendme nts, Section 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified
Development Code by changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business-Emphasis
District to MR-2 Medium-Density Residential-Developing District for Diamond Estates, 3rd Filing,
a replat of the North 147.16 feet of Tract 327, Sunnyside Addition, 7th Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Fillmore Avenue and Rock Springs Street).
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 3925 defining the terms and conditions of employment
for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -
Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen).
Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 3926 defining the terms and conditions of employment
for sworn officers of the City  of Cheyenne Police Department -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsors - Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen).
Ordinance appr opriating money s for the City  of Chey enne, Wy oming, f or the va rious
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 2012, and ending June 30, 2013 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Brown).  A summar y of propose d fund s and budget amounts are  as follows:  Gene ral F und
$49,560,879; Weed and Pest $480,130; Youth Alternatives Grants $392,390; Community Facility
Fees $2,687,256; Recreation Programs $978,024; Community Development Block Grant $375,173;
1% Sales Tax Fund $10,324,654; Solid Waste Management Fund $5,357,688; Law Enforcement
Grants $2 33,488; T ransportation Pl anning $9 10,775; F TA Tr ansit G rant $1 ,666,552; Juve nile
Justice $384,043; Special Friends $132,984; Special Purpose Option Tax $138,977; Youth Activities
$13,100; Golf Fa cilities $201,00 0; Civic Center $961,248; I ce a nd Events Center $502,125;
Cemetery Perpetual Fund $20,000.  Total City proposed budget $75,320,486.  Water Department
$26,288,300; Sewer D epartment $15,787,600. Total Boa rd of Public Utilities proposed budget
$42,075,900.  Total proposed budget appropriations $117,396,386.
[CA] Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2012 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5386)
[CA] Resolution authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a Wy oming Rural Publi c Transportation Pr ogram Grant, for the  purpose of
assisting in providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit
Program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. § 5311.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5387)
Resolution approving the budget of the Downtown Development Authority for the Fiscal
Year beginning July 1, 2012 and ending June 30, 2013.  John Sundahl, DDA Board President, noted
supplemental budget information that had been provided to governing body members prior to the
beginning of the meeting (information on file with office of City Clerk), and discussed proposed
DDA administrative staff compensation increases included in the budget.  He requested support for
approval of the proposed budget and provided information on the number of DDA employees (2
full-time; 3 part-time)and their duties, and noted staff cost-saving efforts in such areas as in-house
marketing.  Mr. Sundahl also discussed anticipated additional staff duties during the next budget
year due to planned membership in the Main Street program; District property tax mill levy monies
to be received within the next year; estimated Fiscal Year (FY) 2013 revenue amount ($481,220.00)
to be received from TI F (Tax Increment Financing) sales tax funding a nd point of sales issues
currently being determined; past administrative staff services provided under c ontract vs. direct
employee relationship, which has been in effect since hiring of the current executive director, and
amount of TIF funds (estimated $280,000.00) which will be provided back to the City by the DDA
for c ertain identified prog rams/projects.  Upon inquiry , Ch ristie DePoorter , DDA Executive
Director, provided infor mation on the amount of DDA  budget reserves, explaining the level of
current reserves and carry-over amounts, and anticipated parking revenue.  During comments and
upon inquiry, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, expressed her belief that the amount of anticipated revenue
from FY 2013 TIF funding should be in the estimated amount of $473,280.00 based upon
information received from the state and her calculations.  Inquiries included the following topics:
Level of DDA budg et reserves; amount of projec ted TIF revenue, and staff in-house ma rketing
efforts vs. profe ssional media assistance .  Ms. DePoorter and Mr. Sundahl provided a dditional
information in response to questions with Mr. Sundahl noting that DDA has scheduled a meeting
on J une 6  with gove rning body  members to review DD A ac tivities/programs and pr ovide ath
measurement briefing.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by
Mr. Valdez.  Discussion topics included: Approval of the proposed DDA FY budget pursuant to
Wyoming Statut es and City  Code; proposed pe rcentage of sa lary incre ases f or DDA  staff;
anticipated cost of the Main Street program and assistance through the Wyoming Business Council;
adjusting the proposed budget amount for projected TIF revenue; TIF funds submitted by the City
to DDA and the portion DDA then returns to the City; concern with approving DDA staff salary
increases relative to the City’s proposed FY 2013 budget which does not provide for City employee
increases, and suggestion that the resolution be postponed to further review the proposed budget and
supplement information re ceived just prior to the meeting .  During discussion information was
provided by Mr. Sundahl and Ms. DePoorter relative to the percentage of proposed salary increase
per positi on; possible Main Street g rant funds tha t may  be ava ilable; potential adjustment of
estimated TIF revenue amount due to  d iscussions being held, and past DDA staff arrangements
relative to compensation and benefits.  Ms. Ash moved to postpone to June 11, 2012, seconded by
Mr. Allen.  I t was noted a  postponement would allow for  additional information t o be re ceived
pursuant to the previously noted June 6  meeting.  Request was made that the DDA Board considerth
adjusting the budget amount for projected TIF revenue.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Valdez voting “no.”
[CA] Resolution authorizing and adopting Post-Issuance Compliance Policies and Procedures for
Tax-Exempt Bonds a nd other Ta x-Exempt obligations.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5388)
Resolution authoriz ing the  I ssuance and Sale by  the City  of Chey enne, Wy oming, of
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series 2012, dated Jun e 5, 2012 in a principal amount not to ex ceed
$9,325,000, for the pur pose of a dvance ref unding a nd defe asing the City ’s Refunding  and
Improvement R evenue B onds, Se ries 2 003; p rescribing the  fo rm of  sa id S eries 2 012 B onds;
providing for the pa yment of the principal a nd interest ther on; and ra tifying, a pproving and
confirming previous ac tions of office rs and membe rs of the G overning Body of the City  and
employees thereof.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Mr. Brown moved to
amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  It was noted the substitute provides for corrections
and inclusion of interest rates pursuant to sale of the bonds.  Entitlement of the substitute Resolution
is as follows: “A Resolution authorizing the Issuance and Sale by the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming,
of Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series 2012, dated June 12, 2012 in a principal amount not to exceed
$9,455,000 for the purpose of advance refunding and defeasing the City’s Outstanding Refunding
and Improvement Revenue Bonds, Series 2003; prescribing the form of said Series 2012 Bonds;
providing f or the pa yment of the princ ipal and intere st thereon; and r atifying, a pproving and
confirming previous ac tions of of ficers and members of  the Gover ning B ody of the City  and
employees thereof.”  Dan Baxter, Kaiser and Company,  advised all of the bonds have been sold
with a number of local banks involved; reviewed the different interest rates per maturity year, and
stated the re funding of bonds has re sulted in a 12% saving s to the City .  He f urther provided
information on ave rage intere st rate and yield, and saving s rec ognized.  Moti on to amend by
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Upon inquiry, Mr.
Baxter reviewed the bond payment date schedule, which is in Ap ril and October, noting the due
dates are the same as the initial (Series 2003) bond payment schedule.  Main motion, as amended,
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5389)
[CA] Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on City
projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2013 - 2014 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant funding.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5390)
Resolution certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on City
projects to be on the substitute list for 2013-2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding.  Mr.
Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend the priority order of
projects on the substit ute lis t attached with the resolution by  moving the L ake Minne haha
Remediation Project to #1 and the Snyder Avenue Storm Sewer Project to #2, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Vicki Ne mecek, Assistant Director , Public Works Depar tment, requested the orig inal
substitute list as submitted (re: Prioritization of Snyder Avenue Project as #1 and Lake Minnehaha
Project as #2) be considered, advising that keeping the Snyder Avenue Project as the #1 priority
would allow for maximiz ing of funds through grant applications.  She noted the Sny der Avenue
Project is linked with the Capital Basin Drainage Project, which will be considered by voters for the
6  penny sales tax question included on the Primary Election ballot in August.  Comment was madeth
in support of the original prioritization of projects.  Motion to amend the priority order of projects
on the substitute list failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body present.  Motion to
adopt the resolution with the prioritization of projects on the substit ute list as initi ally submitted
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5391)
Resolution determining that conditions for anne xation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402
exist for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of the N½ of the N½ of the NE¼ of the NE¼
of Section 11, T.13N., R.67W. of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located at the
end of West 5th Street, west of Southwest Drive, a/k/a 4121 W. 5th Street).  Ms. Ash moved to
adopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present. (#5392)
[CA] Resolution amending the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plans for Fiscal Years 2009-2010
and 2011-2012 to utilize Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) unprogrammed funds for
an out-of-cycle grant.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5393)
[CA] Resolution amending the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plan for Fiscal Year 2011-2012.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5394)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the  City Clerk to sign a  County Final Plat for M
Robbins Subdivision, a replat of Tr act 27, Ar tesian Tracts, Laramie County, Wyoming (located
north of and adjacent to East Nation Road, between South Greeley Highway and Avenue B-6).  Ms.
Ash moved to adopt with staff r ecommendation #1, seconded by  Ms. Broyles.  M otion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5395)
Resolution author izing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sig n a County Final P lat for
Welchester S ubdivision, a  r eplat o f t he W est H alf of T ract 2 1, C restmoor, L aramie C ounty,
Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Welchester Drive, west of College Drive).  Ms. Ash
moved to adopt with staff recommendations #1, 2 and 3, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5396)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for L ewis
Subdivision, a replat of the south 127.41-feet of Tract 6, Evans Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the northeast corner of Wills Road and Laramie Street).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5397)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Kum & Go 952
Subdivision, a replat of Lots 2A and 2B, Stephens Addition and a portion of the Northwest 1/4 of
Section 34, Township 14 North, R ange 66 West, of the Six th Principal Meridian, Chey enne,
Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of East Lincolnway and Ridge Road).  Doug Vetter, City
Engineer, provided information on the nee d for a  traffic impact study, pursuant to discussion at
Public Services Committee, as this is a high traffic area; stated the information will be usef ul as
affiliated with review of the site plan, and requested support for inclusion of all of the original staff
recommendations (i.e. #1 and 2 (a)(b)(c)(d)).  Ms. Ash moved to adopt with staff recommendations
#1 and 2 (a ), seco nded by Dr. Rinne.  Ms. B royles moved to amend by  also including  staff
recommendations #2 (b)(c)and (d), seconded by Mr. Brown.  Provisions of staff recommendations
#2 (b)(c)and (d) were recited.  Casey Palma, Development office, clarified that although specific
wording of the staf f re commendations as submitted may  have be en conf using, the provisions
generally are part of a standard traffic study.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”.  Main motion as amended
(to include adoption with staff recommendations #1 and #2 (a)(b)(c) and (d)) carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present. (#5398) 
[CA] Resolution amending Resolution No. 5140 pertaining to adoption of a revised fee schedule
for ins pection s ervices, pe rmits a nd oth er v arious se rvices p rovided b y the  Che yenne-Laramie
County Board of Health -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Valdez and Mr. Pierson).
[CA] Resolution a uthorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final P lat for Diamond
Estates, 3rd Filing, a replat of the North 147.16 feet of Tract 327, Sunnyside Addition, 7th Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Rock Springs Street and
Fillmore Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution approving Sanitary Sewer Service, by User’s Agreement, for Jason Earley and
Laura Morton, 3307 Hay es Ave nue, Chey enne, Wy oming - - re ferred to F inance Commi ttee
(sponsors - Mr. Brown, Mr. Pierson and Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Resolution supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for Transportation Enhancement
Activities-Local (TEAL) funds for implementation of Phase I of the On-Street Bicycle System --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Naranjo
Civil C ontractors an d Ayres As sociates, Inc., fo r t he d esign an d co nstruction o f S addle R idge
Greenway, Phase I (Community Facility fees).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $126,351.00). (#5847)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for use of the
parking lot located on the F.E. Warren Air Force Base for public transportation service during the
2012 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5848) 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School
District No. 1 for use of buses owned by the Laramie County School District No. 1 f or public
transportation service during the 2012 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5849)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for use of buses
owned by the Laramie County School District No. 1 for public tra nsportation service during the
2012 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5850)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., for usage of city-owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities associated
with the 2012 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5851)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and The Hartford for life and supplemental insurance
coverage for full time city employees.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5852)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of Wyoming for dental coverage
for full time city employees.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5853) 
[CA] Memorandum o f U nderstanding b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne, Pa rks a nd Re creation
Department, and Laramie County School District No.1 to pr ovide transportation services for the
City’s Summer Recreation Camp Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5854) 
[CA] Amended and Restated Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Safehouse
Services for the lease of City-owned real property located at 714 West Fox Farm Road, Cheyenne,
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Information Technology Division, and
Xerox by Xerox Agent XESI for a  high volume pr oduction color copier -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use
of the Chey enne Civic Center  for public pe rformances and re hearsals --  referred to Financ e
Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra  for use
of the Cheyenne Civic Center for Youth Education Concerts -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5800 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Construction Specialists, Inc., for Powers Field Storage Shed (2011-
2014 1% Sales Tax).  M otion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $2,906.00).
(#5800)
[CA] Amendment Number One to Funding Agreement, Contract No. 5657, between the City of
Cheyenne a nd Wy oming De partment of T ransportation for t he East Pershing  Boule vard
Reconstruction Project (2003-2006, 2007-2010 1%  Sales Tax, Boar d of Public Utilities, Federal
Highway Administration funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5657) 
[CA] Amendment No. 3 to Contract No. 5566, Juvenile Housing Agreement, between the City of
Cheyenne and Southeast Wyoming Juvenile Services, LLC, to extend the agreement until August
31, 2012, and to reduce the compensation for services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-38-12 for the sale of surplus property described as the South 66 ft.
of Lots 9, 10 and 11, Bloc k 666, South C heyenne Addition, located w ithin S ection 5, T.13N.
R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (a/k/a 515 Morrie Avenue).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (accept bid submitted by Tara L. Curry, Cheyenne, Wyoming; revenue to the City
$41,231.62). 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-39-12 for the sale of surplus property described as All of Lots 19
and 20, Block 665, South Cheyenne Addition, located within Section 5, T.13N.  R.66W., 6th P.M.,
Laramie County, Wyoming (a/k/a 916 E. 5th Street).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept
bid submitted by Tara L. Curry, Cheyenne, Wyoming; revenue to the City $41,321.32). 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-40-12 for the sale of surplus property described as All of Lots 21
and 22, Block 665, South Cheyenne Addition, located within Section 5, T.13N.  R.66W., 6th P.M.,
Laramie County, Wyoming  (a/k/a 922 E. 5th Street).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept
bid submitted by Tara L. Curry, Cheyenne, Wyoming; revenue to the City $51,321.46). 
Consideration of Bid #M-16-12 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works
Department, 1% Construction Di vision, and J TL Group I nc., d/b/a Knife  River, Chey enne,
Wyoming, for the Fiscal Year 2012 Milling and Utility Adjustments Project for Street and Alley
Division (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Kim Stevens, 1% Construction Division, requested
bids be rejected, advising the project work has been included in the overlay project at a lower rate
than the bids that had been submitted.  Mr. Brown reported there was no recommendation on the
item from Fina nce Committee.  Mr. B rown moved to re ject all bids that had be en submitted,
seconded by Ms. Ash.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-17-12 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works
Department, 1% Construction Division, and S&S Builders, LLC, of Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the
Fiscal Year 2012 Miscellaneous Concrete/Intersection Repair Project (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1%
Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $404,950.76). (#5855) 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-15-12 for  a contr act between City of Chey enne, Public Works
Department, 1% Construction Division, and J TL Group, Inc ., d/b/a Knife River , Chey enne,
Wyoming, for the Fiscal Year 2012 City Overlay Project (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $2,436,511.19). (#5856) 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-34-12 for furnishing three new 2012 cab and chassis with rear load
sanitation ref use collec tion bodies with ti ppers f or the Sanitation Division from  Peterbilt of
Wyoming, Cheyenne, Wyoming (Solid Waste Management fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $482,702.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-42-12 for f urnishing three new pickup trucks f or the Sanitation
Division from Spradley  Barr Motors, Ch eyenne, Wyoming (Solid Waste Management fund) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-21-12 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Kolbe Striping, Castle Rock, Colorado, for the 2012 Pavement Marking Project
(2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of Michael R. O’Donnell to the Board of Adjustment.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Under other business, inquiry  from Council members wa s made re lative to the stree t
condition on  a  portion of  Sny der A venue, s outh o f P ershing B lvd., a nd wa rranty of  c ertain
landscaping plantings on West Lincolnway pursuant to a WYDOT improvement project that was
accepted by the City following project completion relative to maintenance of the beautification areas
along the corridor.  Kim Stevens, 1% Construction, advised she would conduct a site inspection of
the area of concern involving Snyder Avenue and report her findings to Council members.  Rick
Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation; Doug Vetter, City Engineer, and Mayor Kaysen provided
information with regard to status of the West L incolnway beautification corridor area regarding
replacement of landscaping involving the warranty issue; number of trees and shrubs affected;
communications with WYDOT and the landscaping provider; elements that contributed to the need
for replacement of items, and optimum seas on for planting of trees and shrubs as utilized by  the
Parks and Recreation Department.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , May or Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 7:30 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
June 7, 2012