MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-06-11 | CLIP_ID: 301 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 301

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
June 11, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson,  Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker
and Mr. Valdez.  Absent: Mr. Allen.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [C A] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Pierson and Mr. Brown,  agenda item #23(d) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon
request by Mr. Pierson, and pur suant to support received by Mr. Collins and Mr. Bro wn, agenda
item #23(a) w as removed from the Consent Ag enda.  Mr . Collins moved to approve  remaining
Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on May  29, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to AE Com
Technical Services, Inc. for an enhancement plan for Cheyenne area classified roadways, Matt
Ashby, Planning Services Director, advised services to be provided will involve the ga thering of
information on best practices utilized by other communities to manage and maintain street scape
amenities a long the  pu blic ri ghts-of-way, n oting vendor s ervices w ill be  pa id t hrough M PO
(Metropolitan Planning Organization) funding.  A request was made that a follow-up memo from
Tom Mason, MPO Direc tor, be submitted to clarify  professional services that will be provided.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Ordinance approving and establishing r evised water rates, sewer rates, tap fe es, system
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and pe nalties and septic a nd commercial
dump rates, a s recommended by the B oard of Public Utili ties (BOPU).  Reporting  for F inance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Collins. Upon
inquiry, Tim W ilson, BOPU Director, provide d information on ce rtain water and sewer rates as
compared with other municipalities in Wyoming and Colorado.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present. (#3948)
Ordinance pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Zoning  Map Amendme nts, Sectio n 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified
Development Code by changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business-Emphasis
District to MR-2 Medium-Density Residential-Developing District for Diamond Estates, 3rd Filing,
a replat of the North 147.16 feet of Tract 327, Sunnyside Addition, 7th Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Fillmore Avenue and Rock Springs Street).
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the governing body
present. (#3949)
Ordinance appr opriating money s for the Cit y of Chey enne, Wy oming, f or the va rious
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 2012, and ending June 30, 2012.  Lois Huff, City Treasurer, provided an overview
of the proposed budget; reviewed the budget process, and noted no changes have been made to
department  b udgets p ursuant t o re cent n otification t hat em ployee h ealth i nsurance co verage
amounts will not change for the next fiscal year.  She stated that, if necessary, reallocation of monies
from health insurance savings could be accomplished through a future re-appropriation resolution.
Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Doug
Vetter, City Engineer, provided information relative to current and upcoming engineering projects
and staff ing le vels, and stated it is difficult to be c ompetitive in the ar ea of  eng ineer salary
compensation  compared with the general market.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Huff clarified, pursuant to her
earlier comments, that $280,000.00 is the total amount that was budgeted for an anticipated health
insurance increase and the amounts are still designated in departmental budgets.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 3925 defining the terms and conditions of employment
for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne.   Mr. Brown moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.
Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 3926 defining the terms and conditions of employment
for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mot ion carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present.
Ordinance pu rsuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Z oning Ma p A mendments, Section 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts Established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified
Development Code,  changing the  zon ing c lassification f rom H R-2 H igh D ensity Re sidential-
Developing District to MR-2 Medium-Density Residential-Developing District for Lot 21, Block
14, Saddle Ridge, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as a portion of Saddle Ridge, Fourth Filing
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Whitney Road and Countryside Avenue) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Ash).
Ordinance pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Zoning  Map Amendments, S ection 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts Established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business District to
LI Light Industrial District for L ots 2, 3, and 4, Bloc k 387, Orig inal City, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Dillon Avenue and W. 17  Street) -- referredth
to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Ash).
Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated in
a portion of the North Half of the North Half of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of
Section 11, Township 13 North, Rang e 67 West of the 6th P.M., L aramie County , Wy oming
(generally located at the I-25/I-80 Interchange, a.k.a. 4121 W.  5th Street) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Ash). 
Resolution approving the budget of the Downtown Development Authority for the Fiscal
Year beginning July 1, 2012 and ending June 30, 2013.  J ohn Sundahl, Chairman, DDA B oard,
requested a two week postponement to allow the Board opportunity to further review and act on the
proposed budget.   James Perrott Macneil spoke in opposition to all zone changes and annexations
with Mayor Kaysen advising those topics did not pertain to the resolution topic on the floor.  Mr.
Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Pierson moved to postpone for two weeks
(to June 25, 2012), seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.
[CA] Resolution amending Resolution No. 5140 pertaining to adoption of a revised fee schedule
for i nspection s ervices, pe rmits a nd oth er v arious se rvices p rovided by the  Che yenne-Laramie
County Board of Health.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5399)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final P lat for Diamond
Estates, 3rd Filing, a replat of the North 147.16 feet of Tract 327, Sunnyside Addition, 7th Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Rock Springs Street and
Fillmore Avenue).  Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for the applicant, advised he was present to answer
any questions.  Ms. Ash reported there was no recommendation on the item from Public Services
Committee.  Ms. Ash moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  During comments on discussion
held at the Committee meeting concerning set-back of garages, Mr. Emmons clarified this plat filing
is an extension of Diamo nd Estates first and se cond filing s, and explained the set-ba cks ar e
consistent with the previous two phases of the development.  Comments followed regarding support
to consider better set-backs for future developments and perhaps addressing the matter in a future
Unified Development Code revision.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#5400)
[CA] Resolution approving Sanitary Sewer Service, by User’s Agreement, for Jason Earley and
Laura Morton, 3307 Hayes Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5401)
[CA] Resolution supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for Transportation Enhancement
Activities-Local (TEAL) funds for implementation of Phase I of the On-Street Bicycle System.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5402)
[C A] Resolution prioritizing the City of Cheyenne’s 2012 applications for Mineral Royalty Capital
Construction Grants -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --Mr. Brown). 
[CA] Resolution a uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd the  City  Cle rk to s ign a  F inal Plat for L incoln
Addition, Second Filing, a replat of a portion of Tract B, Lincoln Addition, and abandoned WYDOT
right-of-way being  situated in a portion of Sec tion 1, T.13N., R.67W ., 6th P.M., C heyenne,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to West Lincolnway, between Westland Road and Stinson
Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Ash). 
[CA] Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2012 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr.
Brown). 
Amended and Restated Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Safehouse
Services for the lease of City-owned real property located at 714 West Fox Farm Road, Cheyenne,
Wyoming.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Comments followed regarding
the history of the prope rty involving a le ase a greement with the former Attention Homes and
transference (by assignment) of the le ase by Attention Homes to Safehouse , and owne rship of
buildings a nd imp rovements.  U pon in quiry re garding the  $1 .00/year l ease, Dan White, C ity
Attorney, provided information on the lease amount, stating that Safehouse believes they have taken
over the existing assignment of the lease which, when Attention Homes was the lessee, was for a
$1.00/year and noted the lease amount has not been discussed.  Upon inquiry regarding ownership
of property vs. buildings and improvements on the property, Mr. White advised the City owns the
land, a nd re ferenced a n ex ception to  imp rovements re lative to t emporary/moveable str uctures.
Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of
Dr. Rinne voting "no". (#5857) 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Information Technology Division, and
Xerox by Xerox Agent XESI for a  high volume pr oduction color c opier.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried ($985.81/month for 5 years). (#5858)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use
of th e Cheyenne Civic Center for public performances and rehearsals.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (revenue to the City $3,200.00/performance). (#5859)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra  for use
of the Cheyenne Civic Center  for Youth Educ ation Concerts.  Kim L ovett, Executive Director,
Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra (CSO), introduced members of the board present in the audience,
and explained the agreement is for a community project that involves all 5th and 6th grade students
within the City.  She stated the purpose of the concerts are to p rovide cultural li teracy, music
appreciation and general musical knowledge to students.  Anna Marie Hales, Cheyenne Symphony
Board member , expressed appr eciation for past Ci ty funding for the pr oject and e ncouraged
continued funding.  Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $6,453.00, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Comments followed on funding participation level for the concerts by the City,
Cheyenne Symphony and the sc hool district with concern expressed relative to whether funding
assistance for this purpose is part of the City's mission as City funds are not expended for other types
of school district educational programs, such as math or science education.  Ms. Hales discussed the
contract arrangement the Civic Cente r has with the  school district.  During comments, M ayor
Kaysen clarified the previous agenda item involving CSO use of the Civic Center provides revenue
to the City and is not a City expenditure amount.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Lovett provided information
on concert costs and funding assistance received, which includes in-kind donations, to help cover
the cost.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Mr. Collins and Dr. Rinne voting "no". (#5860)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and the State of Wyoming,
Department of F amily Service s, reg arding f unding f or the provision of Youth Alter natives
Prevention Program services -- referred to Finance Committee.    
[CA] Amendment No. 3 to Contract No. 5566, Juvenile Housing Agreement, between the City of
Cheyenne and Southeast Wyoming Juvenile Services, LLC, to extend the agreement until August
31, 2012, and to re duce the compensation for services.  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) carried
(amount not to exceed $6,000.00/month). ( #5566)  Under other business, question wa s ra ised
regarding status of the contract if Southeast Wyoming Juvenile Services determined it was not in
agreement with the amendment and did not sign.  City Attorney Dan White advised he has not heard
anything from Southeast Wyoming Juvenile Services and reviewed the City's offering contained in
the amendment.  He stated if they are not interested in the amendment to the agreement and did not
sign the agreement, the contract (i.e. amendment to the contract) would become null and void.
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 4173, Software License Agreement, between the City of
Cheyenne, Che yenne Police D epartment, and New World Sy stems Corporation for a dditional
services involving field r eporting softwar e licensing  and maintena nce - - referred to F inance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-42-12 for furnishing three new pickup trucks f or the Sanitation
Division from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, Wyoming (Solid Waste Management fund.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $70,123.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-21-12 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Kolbe Striping, Castle Rock, Colorado, for the 2012 Pavement Marking Project
(2007-2010 1%  Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (amount not to ex ceed
$87,186.00). (#5861)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-41-12 for furnishing 66 new Glock pistols and to trade-in 66 surplus
pistols for the City of Cheyenne Police Department -- referred to Finance Committee.
[C A] Consideration of Bid #M-20-12  for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Holliday Park Connector
Project (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax & 1% Specific Purpose Tax) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Judi Bufkin d/b/a
Judi’s Cajun Kitchen, 1719 Centra l Ave., C heyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda)
carried.
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Robert J. Walker to the Community Action
of L aramie Cou nty B oard a nd Sc ott Cow ley to t he Che yenne-Laramie Cou nty Ec onomic
Development Joint Powers Board to be confirmed June 25, 2012.
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Betsy Putnam, Dr. Richard Berry and
Ronn Jeffrey to the Laramie County Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board to be confirmed June 25,
2012.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 25, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for an application for a transfer of
ownership and transfer of location for a retail liquor license filed with the City Clerk’s Office by
Steamboat’s L LC d /b/a Steamboat’s W yoming S teak an d S moke H ouse, 1 947 De ll R ange
Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Let’er Buck Investment Group LLC
d/b/a Steamboat’s, (address not yet issued) to be located off Gardenia Drive between Yellowstone
Road and El Camino Real in Cathedral Commons).
Announcement was made that two Calcuttas, benefitting Cheyenne area charities, will be
held as follows: Sunday, July 22, 2012 beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Calcutta tent located in front
of the Old  West Museum, 4601 North Care y Avenue , Fr ontier Park, in conjunc tion with the
Championship Bull Riding event, and Saturday, July 28, 2012 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in the Calcutta
tent located in front of the Old West Museum, 4601 North Carey Avenue, Frontier Park, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, in conjunction with the 2012 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration (10% of proceeds to
bona fide charities).  
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Tuesday, June 19, 2012 at 5:15 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for proposed budgets for
the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2013.
Announcement was made of a Special Session of the Governing Body to be held Tuesday,
June 19, 2012 at 5:30 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming,
for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for FiscalYear 2013.
Under other business:
Inquiry was made pertaining to the consent agenda item involving a contract amendment
with Southeast Wyoming Juvenile Services (refer to minutes for the item).
Upon inquiry, Rick Parish, Parks and Rec reation Director, provided updated information
regarding the current status of trees and shrubs in the median located on West Lincolnway and items
that will be replaced; discussions with the landscaping contractor that have been held pursuant to
services and warranties provided by the contractor for WYDOT for the latter's project, which was
prior to the City acquiring maintenance responsibilities of the median area.
It was announced July 10, 2012 is the community 's 3rd Annual Neighborhood Night Out
event and those interested in participating in their neighborhood could contact the Police Department
for information.
There being  no further  busin ess to come be fore the g overning body , May or Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 6:57 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 22, 2012