MEETING: City Council June 25, 2012 | DATE: 2012-06-28 | CLIP_ID: 311 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 311

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
June 25, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: MAYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson,  Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [C A] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash,  agenda item #18 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Collins
moved to approve  remaining Consent Ag enda items, seconded by Mr. B rown.  Motion car ried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on J une 11, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Special Sessi on of the Governing Body on J une 19, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. B rown a nd Mr . Co llins  e ach  d eclared a conflict o f i nterest ( business i nterest i n
vouchers payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and the B icycle Station, Inc. respectively) and
vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Va ldez moved to approve pa yment of vouche rs as pres ented,
seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Collins returned
to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to rec eive comments and input for a tra nsfer of
ownership and transfer of location for a retail liquor license filed with the Cit y Clerk’s Office by
Steamboat’s L LC d/b/a S teamboat’s W yoming S teak an d S moke H ouse, 1 947 De ll R ange
Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Let ’er Buck Investment Group LLC
d/b/a Steamboat’s, (address not yet issued) to be located off Gardenia Drive between Yellowstone
Road and El Camino Real in Cathedral Commons).  Upon inquiry,  James Yates, applicant member,
confirmed the proposed new business location is the former Shari’s restaurant building on Dell
Range and provided information on the transfer of ownership, explaining that some of the partners
in Steamboat’s LLC are the same as those with Let ’er Buck Investment Group LLC.  There being
no further comments and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing
and referred the application to Finance Committee.
Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 3925 defining the terms and conditions of employment
for non-uniformed employees of the City  of Chey enne.  Re porting for Fi nance Committee, Mr.
Brown moved to appr ove on third and f inal reading, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#3951)
Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 3926 defining the terms and conditions of employment
for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body. (#3952)
Ordinance pu rsuant t o Section 2 .2.1 Z oning Ma p A mendments, Section 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts Established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified
Development Code,  changing the  zon ing c lassification f rom H R-2 H igh D ensity Re sidential-
Developing District to MR-2 Medium-Density Residential-Developing District for Lot 21, Block
14, Saddle Ridge, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as a portion of Saddle Ridge, Fourth Filing
(located at the southea st corner of the intersection of Whitney Road and Country side Avenue).
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Ordinance pursua nt to Section  2.2.1 Zoning Ma p Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts Established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business District to
LI Light Industrial District for L ots 2, 3, and 4, Bloc k 397, Orig inal City, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Dillon Avenue and W. 17  Street).  Ms. Ashth
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Comments followed reg arding
discussion held at the Public Services Committee meeting concerning whether a zoning condition
should be considered with regard to o utside storage.  D iscussion included the following topics:
Expressions that a zoning condition would not be necessary; flexibility involving uses within the
proposed LI zoned c lassification for the area; limited outside storage space impact t o t he
neighborhood due to the building  located on the  site; Pl anCheyenne an d the downtown ar ea;
reconsidering the Unified Development Code as written; other LI zoned area(s) in the vicinity, and
consistency with uses for businesses in the area.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body.
Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated in
a portion of the North Half of the North Half of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of
Section 11, Township 13 North, Rang e 67 West of the 6th P.M., L aramie County , Wy oming
(generally located at the I-25/I-80 Interchange, a.k.a. 4121 W. 5th Street).  Ms. Ash moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --  all members
of the governing body.
Ordinance granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to H igh West Energy, Inc., its
successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute electricity to the City and all persons,
businesses, and industry within a portion of the City High West’s certificated territory and the right
to acquire, construct, install, locate, maintain, operate and extend into, within and through said City
all facilities reasonably necessary to furnish, sell and distribute electricity within the City and the
right to make reasonable use of all streets and other public places and public easements as herein
defined as may  be nec essary; and fixi ng the t erms and conditions there of -- referred to Fina nce
Committee (sponsors -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson).
Resolution approving the budget of the Downtown Development Authority for the Fiscal
Year beginning July 1, 2012 and ending June 30, 2013 (postponed from 6/11/12).  John Sundahl,
President, Downtown Development Authority (DDA) Board, advised he was present to answer any
questions, and requested approval of a substitute resolution/budget.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt,
seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  It
was noted the proposed substitute reflects a reduction in the amount of the overall proposed budget
(from $626,220.00 to $621,370.00).  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body. (#5403)
Resolution prioritizing the City of Cheyenne’s 2012 applications for Mineral Royalty Capital
Construction Grants.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to
amend by  substitut e, sec onded by  Mr. Valdez.  I t was advised the  substitut e cla rifies the
prioritization order, which wa s inadvertently listed in the wrong  order on the init ial resolution.
Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager, reviewed the order of the prioritization of projects listed in the
proposed s ubstitute a s f ollows:  # 1. Ea st Pe rshing B lvd. Sa nitary Se wer ( Dunn to C onverse
Avenues), #2. Crow Cree k Water Recla mation Facility Improvements, #3. St reet & Alley Road
Maintenance Facility Addition, Phase I, and #4. Snyder Avenue Sewer Rehabilitation Project (West
24  St. To W est Pershing Blvd.).  Motion to amend c arried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of theth
governing body.  Upon inquiry, Tim Wilson, BOPU Director, briefly reviewed the Priority No. 4
project, clarifying it was a continuation of the Snyder Ave. and West Pershing Blvd. reconstruction
project which will include re placement of par t of the sewe r line.  Main motion as amende d by
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5404)
Resolution a uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd the  City  Clerk to sig n a  F inal Pla t f or L incoln
Addition, Second Filing, a replat of a portion of Tract B, Lincoln Addition, and abandoned WYDOT
right-of-way being  situated in a portion of Sec tion 1, T.13N., R.67W ., 6th P.M., C heyenne,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to West Lincolnway, between Westland Road and Stinson
Avenue).  Ms. Ash  moved to adopt with staff recommendation #1, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon
inquiry, Brett Walker, Development Office, stated the staff recommendation requires the applicant
to submit a revised traffic impact study, which has already been done and is under review by the
Engineer's office.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body. (#5405) 
Resolution re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2012 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.
Spiker.  Mr. B rown moved to amend by  substitute, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  I t was advised the
amendment increases the employ ee health i nsurance share program total pay ment amount from
$165,000.00 to $181,000.00.  Upon inquiry, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, advised the substitute was
prepared based upon comments made a t Finance Committee and explained the prog ram which
involves full-time employees during calendar year 2011, but not elected officials; health insurance
savings during calendar year 2011 due to employee health wellness efforts to keep down premium
costs, and elig ibility provi sions to receive a portion of the sa vings.  Ms. Huf f also provide d
information on employ ee health insurance savings realized during the budg et process last y ear,
noting $65,000.00 of the amount saved is going toward the Employee Investment Study, and stated,
if the substitute is approved, there will be approximately $19,000 in savings remaining in the line
item.  It was clarified elected officials will not receive any payment, and that representatives for the
Police Protective Association, Cheyenne Public Employees Association and the Firefighters local
union were all contacted and in agreement with the proposal.   Motion to amend carried.  Voting
"yes" -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting
"yes" -- all members of the governing body. (#5406)
[CA] Resolution authoriz ing the submitt al of a n application to the Wy oming State Loan and
Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Clean Water State Revolving fund for an amount
not to ex ceed $5 milli on for the Crow  Creek Re clamation F acility I mprovements Projec t and
authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the
application and all related loan documents -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle Ridge,
Fourth Filing, a replat of Lots 1-19, 21 and 23, Block 14 and Lots 1-27, Block 15, Saddle Ridge,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Whitney Road, between Laramie Street and
Countryside Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Ash).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming Water Development
Commission for additional grant funding for the Southern Water Transmission Main - Phase II
Project in an a mount not to ex ceed $4,261,200 and author izing the May or, City Clerk and the
Director of the B oard of Public Utili ties to ex ecute the applica tion and all rela ted documents --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Resolution authorizing the Mayor to enter into negotiations for the purchase of Lot 1, Block
1, Marriott Subdivision, located near the inter section of West L incolnway and Capitol Avenue ,
Cheyenne, Wyoming -- refe rred to Fina nce Committee (sponsors - - Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Mr.
Collins, Mr. Pierson). 
[CA] Resolution authoriz ing the  May or and City  Clerk to e nter into coope rative a nd other
agreements as necessary to enable the City of Cheyenne to join with other participating Wyoming
Municipalities in an application for State Small Business Credit Initiative funds available from the
United S tates De partment of T reasury pursuant to the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, and
repealing Resolution No. 5317 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and the State of Wyoming,
Department of Family Services, regarding funding for the provision of  Youth Al ternatives
Prevention Program services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5867)    
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Bill G. Hibbler for professional legal counsel
assistance -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation  for
Economic Development (LEADS) for industrial and economic development services -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] State L ease Ag reement No. 8-09466 be tween the  Ci ty of Cheyenne a nd the State of
Wyoming, Department of Administration and Information, Construction Management, for rental of
parking spaces located at the Cox Parking Structure -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Grant Agreement for FAA Airport Improvement Program Project  No. 3-
56-0005-47 between the City of Cheyenne, County of Laramie, Cheyenne Regional Airport Board
and the F ederal Aviation Administration in an amount  not to exceed $4.7 milli on for taxiway
rehabilitation -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Use Agreement b etween the City of Cheyenne and Sierra Trading Post, Inc., to p ermit
limited use of the public right-of-way for the installation of fiber optics, and setting a fee -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
shelter services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
control services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness Center, Inc., Alcohol Receiving
Center, for certain human services in the community -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority, for certain human
services in the community -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and the State of Wyoming,
Department of F amily Services, for Juvenile Diversion Prog ram services -- referred to Fina nce
Committee. 
[CA] Juvenile Ac countability B lock G rant C ontract between th e City  of  Che yenne, Y outh
Alternatives, and the State of Wy oming, Department of F amily Services, for pa rtial funding of
Municipal Juvenile Court staffing and services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Stride Learning Center to provide cooperative
transit services -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No. 1 for School Resource Officers, for the 2012 - 2013 school year -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 4173, Software License Agreement, between the City of
Cheyenne, Chey enne Police De partment, a nd New World Sy stems Corporation for a dditional
services involving fie ld reporting  softwar e licensing  and maintena nce.  Motion (pe r Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $200,200.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-41-12 for furnishing 66 new Glock pistols and to trade-in 66 surplus
pistols for the City of Cheyenne Police Department.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
bid from Pro Force Enforcement, Prescott, AZ (amount not to exceed $9,834.00, including trade-
ins).
[C A] Consideration of Bid #M-20-12  for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Holliday Park Connector
Project (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax & 1% Specific Purpose Tax).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $1,460,646.70). (#5868)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-43-12 for furnishing 12 police vehicles for the Police Department
from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, Wyoming (partial 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-1-13 for f urnishing and installing 70  new Panasonic Arbitrator
cameras with supporting equipment for the Cheyenne Police Department  (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax)
-- referred to Finance Committee.
    
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-44-12 for furnishing 22 vehicles for City Departments from Wolf
Auto Group (16), Pinedale, Wyoming, and Spradley Barr Motors (6), Cheyenne, Wyoming (partial
2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
    
Appointments of Robert J. Walker to the Community Action of Laramie County Board and
Scott Cowley to the Cheyenne-Laramie County Economic Development Joint Powers Board.  Mr.
Collins moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the go verning body with the exception of May or Ka ysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointments).
Re-Appointments of Betsy Putnam, Dr. Richard Berry and Ronn Jeffrey to t he Laramie
County Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board.  Mr. Collins moved to approve, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of
Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 9, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Ch ambers, 2 101 O 'Neil A venue, Cheyenne, Wy oming, f or a  re staurant l iquor lic ense
application filed with the City Clerk's Office for 2 Doors Down 2, Inc. d/b/a 2 Doors Down 2, 1802
Dell Range Boulevard, Suite 2, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made of the Appointment of B randon Kramer to the the Dow ntown
Development Authority Board to be confirmed July 9, 2012.
Announcement w as m ade t hat t wo C alcuttas, b enefitting t he C heyenne F rontier D ays
Scholarship Program, will be held as follows: Thursday, July 19, 2012 beginning at 7:00 p.m. at The
Redwood Lounge, 2105 East Lincolnway, in conjunction with the Cheyenne Frontier Days Wild
Horse Races to be held July 21-29, 2012 at Frontier Park, and Saturday, July 28, 2012 beginning at
8:00 p.m. at the Redwood L ounge, 2105 Ea st Lincolnway, in conjunction with the Chey enne
Frontier Days Wild Horse Race to be held July 29, 2012 at Frontier Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in
conjunction wi th th e 20 12 Ch eyenne Fron tier Day s cel ebration (15 % of  pro ceeds to  CFD
Scholarship Program).
 
Announcement was made that the local Wyoming Chapter for Multiple Sclerosis (MS) will
be sponsoring a Calcutta to be held Thursday, August 16, 2012 beginning at 6:00 p.m. at Alf’s Pub
and Package Liquor, 1622 East 19th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the MS
Society/Alf’s Pub Golf Tournament (15% of proceeds to benefit the local MS Society).
Under other business, Larry Proietti expressed concerns regarding a political candidate
signboard displayed in Lions Park during the Superday event on June 23rd).  Upon r equest, Rick
Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, advised the vehicle that had the signboard displayed was a
participant in the Superday auto show event, not the assigned political candidate area, and staff was
not aware of the display until after it had been erected in the bed of the vehicle after parking in the
assigned site, at which time the individual was asked to remove the sign.
There being  no further  business to come before the g overning body , May or Ka ysen
adjourned the meeting at 6:42 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 6, 2012