MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-07-09 | CLIP_ID: 314 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 314

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
July 9, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson,  Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr.
Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Allen
and Mr. Collins, ag enda items #16 a nd #17 wer e removed from the Consent Ag enda.  Mr . Collins
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 25, 2012.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest
in vouchers payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, Bicycle Station, Inc. and Radio Station KYOY
FM respectively) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Pierson moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Upon inquiry, Doug Vetter, City Engineer, provided information
pertaining to a  voucher payable to A VI Engineering for professional services involving the Norris
Viaduct Detention Pond Project, noting design services are to assist with alleviation of excess drainage
and that anticipated project construction will be later this year or next year.  He advised awareness of
the problem was during reconstruction of Norris Viaduct.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Vetter and Matt Ashby,
Planning Services Director, provided information on a vouc her pa yable to Chase Par k Grants for
strategic grants planning services involving the Lower Capital Basin Project.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement
of the vote, Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins and Mr. Valdez returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for 2 Doors Down 2, Inc. d/b/a 2 Doors Down 2,
1802 Dell Range Boulevard, Suite 2, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  There being no comments or input and
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the application
to Finance Committee.
Ordinance pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts
Established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from HR-2 High Density Residential-Developing District to
MR-2 Medium-Density Residential-Developing District for Lot 21, Block 14, Saddle Ridge, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, to be known as a portion of Saddle Ridge, Fourth Filing (located at the southeast corner of
the intersection of Whitney Road and Countryside Avenue).  Reporting for Public Services Committee,
Ms. Ash moved to approve  on third and final r eading, seconded by Ms. Broy les.  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#3953)
Ordinance pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts
Established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business District to LI Light Industrial
District for Lots 2, 3, and 4, Block 397, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast
corner of the intersection of Dillon Avenue and W. 17  Street).  Ms. Ash moved to approve on thirdth
and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broy les.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. (#3954)
Ordinance annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being situated in a
portion of the North Half of the North Half of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section
11, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located
at the I-25/I-80 Interchange, a.k.a. 4121 W. 5th Street).  Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final
reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carr ied.  Voting “yes” --  all member s of the g overning
body. (#3955)
Ordinance g ranting a  F ranchise b y t he C ity o f C heyenne t o H igh W est E nergy, I nc., its
successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute electricity to the City and all persons,
businesses, and industry within a portion of the City High West’s certificated territory and the right to
acquire, construct, install, locate, maintain, operate and extend into, within and through said City all
facilities reasonably necessary to furnish, sell and distribute electricity within the City and the right to
make reasonable use of all streets and other public places and public easements as herein defined as may
be necessary; and fixing the terms and conditions thereof.  Randy Reed, representative for High West
Energy (HWE), advised communications are being held between HWE and Cheyenne Light, Fuel and
Power (CLFP) and requested a postponement of the item for a month to continue discussions to possibly
propose a modification of the proposed ordinance.  It was confirmed the postponement date requested
was August 13, 2012.  John Sundahl, attorney for CLFP, concurred with Mr. Reed’s comments and
spoke in support of the requested postponement to August 13 .  James Perrott Macneil expressed histh
opinion that those present who w ished to speak on the item should be a llowed to do so and that the
mayor should not cast a vote on the item, and commented in favor of competition. Savannah Birkle,
Miss Teen Laramie County, commented in support of CLFP, noting its support to numerous community
organizations and activities.  Upon inquiry regarding whether the governing body would be involved
in determining which utility company would provide service to future properties annexed into the City,
if the franchise ordinance for HWE is approved, Mr. Reed and Mr. Sundahl provided their opinions of
the Public Service Commission’s vs. the governing body’s authority.  Thurman King commented on
the issue of fairness vs. dollars and spoke in support of quality services he has received over the years
from HWE.  R eporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone to August 13, 2012, seconded by Mr. Spiker.
Recommendation was made that the City also needs to be “in the loop” with regard to subjects being
discussed by HWE and CLFP that may result in modifications to the proposed ordinance as well as the
existing franchise ordinance with CL FP.  Upon inquiry , Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk, reviewed the
following Council meeting  schedule for the a genda item if the motion to post pone was approved:
Ordinance would return on the August 13, 2012 City Council meeting agenda for referral back to
Finance Committee for review and recommendation on second reading (no discussion or action will be
taken at the August 13  meeting); Finance Committee would meet Monday, August 20, 2012 at 11:00th
a.m. (Room 122, Municipal Building) to review and vote on a recommendation on the ordinance, and
the ordinance would be placed on the August 27, 2012 City Council meeting agenda for anticipated
action on second reading.  Ms. Intlekofer advised when an agenda item is postponed for a time frame
that is more than the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting, the item is referred back to the
respective Council committee for review/recommendation.  Motion to post pone to August 13, 2012
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mayor Kaysen called for a brief recess to allow those in attendance for the previous agenda item
to vacate Chambers if they wished to do so, and reconvened the meeting at 6:34 p.m.
Ordinance pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts
Established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MUR Mixed Use with Residential Emphasis District to
MUB Mixed Use with Business Emphasis District for the South ½ of Lot 1, the West 5.72 feet of the
North 66 feet of Lot 1, all of Lots 2, 3 and 4, Block 201, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
at the southeast corner of the intersection of Warren Avenue and E. 23rd Street) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash). 
[CA] Resolution author izing the submittal of an application to the  Wyoming State L oan and
Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Clean Water State Revolving fund for an amount not
to exceed $5 million for the Crow Creek Reclamation Facility Improvements Project and authorizing
the Mayor, City Clerk and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and
all related loan documents.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5407)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle Ridge,
Fourth Filing, a replat of Lots 1-19, 21 and 23, Block 14 and Lots 1-27, Block 15, Saddle Ridge,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and a djacent to W hitney Road, betwe en Laramie Street and
Countryside Avenue).  Ms.  Ash moved to adopt with staff recommendation #2, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (5408)
[CA] Resolution authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming Water Development
Commission for additional grant funding for the Southern Water Transmission Main - Phase II Project
in an amount not to exceed $4,261,200 and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and the Director of the
Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and all related documents.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5409)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor to enter into negotiations for the purchase of Lot 1, Block 1,
Marriott Subdivision, located near the intersection of West Lincolnway and Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming.  L ea B ain re quested the r esolution not be adopted a nd offered sug gestions reg arding
development of a strategic plan for the site, through use of a portion of funds from the economic
development budget line item, or consider ation of ente ring into a perpe tual lease with the adjac ent
private property owner to discuss development options and lease provisions.  She expressed concern
with the expense to potentially purchase the property at this time.  Jack Whyatt concurred with Ms.
Bain’s comments; expressed concern with purchasing the property and whether the private property
owner involved would be willing to sell for the appraised value amount, and commented that the City’s
involvement in private enterprise is not a wise use of dollars.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by
Mr. Collins.  D iscussion i ncluded t he f ollowing t opics: P urpose o f t he r esolution ( i.e. a uthorize
negotiation discussions only); need for short and long term plans for the property if the City was to
acquire ownership of all of the area; property appraisal; difficulty in garnering interested developers due
to private ownership involved in the area; estimated time frame for negotiations; erosion of sidewalk
and adjacent building foundation concerns; City’s legal condemnation authority; public sentiment;
creating an envir onment to attrac t a private  develope r; conc ern w ith establ ishing a purc hasing
precedence involving property blight in the downtown area; monetary concerns; public vs. private
development role and collaborative efforts; leveraging of resources, and topics that may be presented
during negotiation discussions.  During discussion Mayor Kaysen provided information in response to
inquiries from Council members, including the following areas:  Discussions and conversations that
have occurred over the years since “the hole” was created (due to fire) with potential developers and
interested individuals; lack of interest by developers; short term plan to install a fence/facade to screen
property visually if the City acquires the property; potential long term/future property use, including
partnering efforts; current evaluation and work to be done to stabilize the sidewalk; plans to update a
previous property appraisal, and possible negotiation discussion topics.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Allen voting “no.”  (#5410)
Resolution authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to enter into cooperative and other agreements
as necessary to enable the City of Cheyenne to join with other participating Wyoming Municipalities
in an applica tion for State S mall Business Credit I nitiative funds available  from the United States
Department of Treasury pursuant to the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, and repealing Resolution No.
5317.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Inquiry was made with regard to the
difference between the proposed resolution involving a coalition of Wyoming municipalities and the
previously adopted r esolution (Resolution #5317), and compensa tion formula for se rvices to be
provided by Wyoming Smart Capital Network (WSCN).  Ra ndy Bruins, CEO, Cheyenne LEADS,
explained details affiliated with the initial resolution (#5317), stating that since the time an application
was submitted pursuant to that resolution the U.S. Treasury made substantive modifications to i ts
program rules that resulted in LEADS and the Cheyenne-Laramie County Economic Joint Powers Board
determining that the entities would no longer be able to assist as initially proposed.  Diane Wolverton,
Executive D irector, Wy oming Smart Capital Ne twork, discussed the amount of trea sury funding
available to municipalities and percen tage of distribution payments that can be allocated for service
fees.  She stated the amount of fees will be set out in the affiliated coalition cooperative agreement and
WSCN services agreement.  M otion carried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#5411)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing a street name change from Archer Service Road to Hutchins Drive
for the portion of the former I-80 Service Road located East of Industry Drive and South of Campstool
Addition, 1  and 3  filings, to the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming -- referred to Publicst rd
Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A doption of the Chey enne Metropolitan Area On Street Bicycle Plan and
Greenway Plan update -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsors - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms.
Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Worldwide
Subdivision, a portion of the NE¼ NE¼ of Section 11, T.13N., R.67W., of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the I-25/I-80 interchange) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms.
Ash).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Campstool
Addition, Fourth Filing, situate in portions of the NE¼ of Sec tion 31 and the NW¼ of Section 32,
T.14N., R.65W., 6th P.M., and a replat of a portion of Campstool Addition, First Filing, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to I -80 Service Road, ea st of I ndustry Road and south of
Venture Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor Ms. Ash).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing a special use approval for a creative sign program for Block 392,
Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (The Dinneen Block located on Lincolnway between Pioneer and
Thomes) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Bill G. Hibbler f or professional legal counsel
assistance.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5872)
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for
Economic Development (LEADS) for industrial and ec onomic development services.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5873)
[CA] State Lease Agreement No. 8-09466 between the City of Cheyenne and the State of Wyoming,
Department of Administration and Information, Construction Management, for rental of parking spaces
located at the Cox Parking Structure.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (#5874)
[CA] Consideration of Grant Agreement for FAA Airport Improvement Program Project No. 3-56-
0005-47 between the City of Cheyenne, County of Laramie, Cheyenne Regional Airport Board and the
Federal Aviation Administration in an amount not to exceed $4.7 million for taxiway rehabilitation.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5875)
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Sierra Trading Post, Inc., to permit  limited
use of the public right-of-way for the installation of fiber optics, and setting a fee.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5876)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
shelter services.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend
by substitute, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  It was noted the substitute corrects the amount to be paid from
$26,067.33/month to $26,599.33/month.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#5877)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
control services.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend
by substitute, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  It was noted the substitute corrects the amount to be paid from
$15,732.83/month to $15,200.83/month.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mr. Pierson voting  “no.”  Ma in motion as amended c arried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5878)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness Center, I nc., Alcohol Receiving
Center, for certain human services in the community.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $73,098.00). (#5879)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority, for certain human
services in the community.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $46,408.00).
(#5880)
[CA] Contract b etween t he City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, an d t he S tate o f Wyoming,
Department of F amily Service s, for Juvenile Diversion Prog ram ser vices.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5881)
[CA] Juvenile Ac countability B lock G rant C ontract be tween th e City  of Cheyenne, Y outh
Alternatives, and the State of Wy oming, De partment of F amily Service s, for pa rtial funding  of
Municipal Juvenile Court staffing and services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5882)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Stride Learning Center to provide cooperative
transit services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ($77,817.35 annual revenue to the City). (#5883)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School District
No. 1 for School Resource Officers, for the 2012 - 2013 school year.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5884)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department Victim Witness Program, and the
State of Wyoming, Division of Victim Services, for services to victims of crime (Victim Services grant)
-- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Ag reement b etween the City  of Chey enne, Police D epartment, and
William Linden, for cr ime victim assistance se rvices (Victim Services grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Emp loyment Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Police D epartment, and
Brenda Johnson, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Leslie
Burch, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-43-12 for furnishing twelve police vehicles for the Police Department
from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, Wyoming (partial 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  M otion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $285,444.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-1-13 for furnishing  and installing 70 ne w Panasonic Arbitrator
Cameras with supporting equipment for the Cheyenne Police Department  (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bids from CDW Government, LLC, Vernon Hill, IL
(amount not to exceed $373,726.30) and L.A.W.S., Englewood, CO (amount not to exceed $32,900.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-44-12 for furnishing 22 vehicles for City Departments from Wolf Auto
Group (16), Pinedale, Wyoming, and Spradley Barr Motors (6), Cheyenne, Wyoming (partial 2011-
2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bids from Wolf Auto Group for
16 vehicles (amount not to exceed $309,924.00) and Spradley Barr Motors for 6 vehicles (amount not
to exceed $173,810.00; total amount not to exceed $483,734.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-23-12 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Inman Roofing,
Inc., Chey enne, Wy oming, a nd Weatherc raft Company, Scottsbluff-Ger ing, N ebraska, for  Roof
Replacement at Municipal B uilding and Civic Center  (SL IB-12 funding ) --  ref erred to Fina nce
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-24-12 for  a contr act between the City of Chey enne, Engineering
Department, and Modern Electric Co., Casper, Wyoming, for Ridge Road Traffic Signal Replacement
Project -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Transfer of ownership and transfer of location for a retail liquor license application filed with
the City Clerk's Office by Steamboat’s LLC d/b/a Steamboat’s Wyoming Steak and Smoke House, 1947
Dell Range Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming. (License currently held by Let’er Buck Investment Group
LLC d/b/a Steamboat’s, (address not yet issued) to be located off Gardenia Drive between Yellowstone
Road and El Camino Real in Cathedral Commons).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Appointment of Brandon Kramer to the Downtown Development Authority Board.  Mr. Collins
moved to approve , seconded by Mr. Valde z.  Mot ion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all members of  the
governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Announcement was made  of the Re- Appointment of Jeannine R. Stalli ngs to the Chey enne
Public Transit Advisory Board to be confirmed July 23, 2012.
Announcement was made that the Wyoming Down Syndrome Association will be sponsoring
a Calcutta to be held Saturday, August 11, 2012 beginning at 7:00 p.m. at the Redwood Lounge, 2105
East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the Wy oming Down Syndrome Buddy
Walk and Dart Tournament (15% of proceeds to benefit the Association).
Under other business:
Matt Ashby , Planning Ser vices Dire ctor, noted the  attendanc e of the Historic Downtown
Cheyenne Placemaking Project consultants, Elaine Carmichael and Tom Gallaher, at the meeting and
provided a brief synopsis of the project, which was to identify strategies for invigorating the downtown
area.  He noted the final draft project report would be presented to City Council members at a work
session the following day with other public meetings to present the report later in the week  Ms.
Carmichael and Mr. Gallaher eac h stated they  enjoy ed wor king on the  projec t and expressed
appreciation to those who helped with the project.
Rick Pa rish, D irector of  Pa rks a nd Recreation, a dvised th e a nnual Wy oming Op en G olf
Tournament begins July 11 ; noted the success of the recent annual Super Day event and referencedth
several softball tournaments that have been held.
Police Chief Brian Kozak reminded those present that the 3  annual Neighborhood Night Outrd
event would be  held Tuesda y evening , J uly 10  and , upon inquiry, advised he  would provideth
information on each neighborhood event location to members of the governing body.
Ms. Ash commented on recent City Council agenda items involving the Unified Development
Code and expressed concern with UDC interpretation by staff and developers.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 7:36 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 19, 2012