MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-07-23 | CLIP_ID: 321 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 321

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 July 23, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson,  Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr.
Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the a genda.)  M r. Collins moved to approve  Consent Ag enda items, sec onded by Mr.
Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 9, 2012.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Collins declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a  voucher payable to Bicycle
Station, Inc. and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Up on inquiry regarding a voucher payable to A ll Traffic Data
Services Inc., Matt Ashby , Planning Ser vices Director, advised se rvices provided by  the company
involved a study  initiated throug h the Metropolitan Planning  Org anization (MPO) for timing
information on traffic signals.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, provided information affiliated
with a voucher payable to the Associated Legal Group, LLC, pertaining to legal costs for litigation of
the eminent domain matter involving the Hollywood Video property.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Ashby advised
a voucher payment for a Dale Carnegie Course was an MPO expenditure for e mployee training on
communication and public relations/interaction skills.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Collins
returned to Council Chambers.
Ordinance pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts
Established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MUR Mixed Use with Residential Emphasis District to
MUB Mixed Use with Business Emphasis District for the South ½ of Lot 1, the West 5.72 feet of the
North 66 feet of Lot 1, all of Lots 2, 3 and 4, Block 201, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
at the southeast corner of the intersection of Warren Avenue and E. 23rd Street).  Jan Nelson Schroll
expressed concerns regarding the proposed zone change and encroachment of commercial activities in
residential neighborhoods, particularly historic neig hborhoods.  Randy  Byers, The De sign Studio,
architectural firm representing the applicant, Meridian Trust Federal Credit Union, clarified the zone
change request will more closely reflect the business environment use already present on the block.  He
briefly reviewed the credit union’s business history at the location and current zoning in the vicinity,
planned site enhancements involving improved access for safety to the drive-up facility and ownership
of lots within the block by the credit union.  He clarified the property involved in the proposed zone
change was not within a historic district.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved
to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all members
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Allen voting “no”.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing a street name change from Archer Service Road to Hutchins Drive
for the portion of the former I-80 Service Road located East of Industry Drive and South of Campstool
Addition, 1  and 3  filings, to the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consentst rd
Agenda) carried. (#5412)
RESOLUTION - A doption of the Chey enne Metropolitan Area O n Street B icycle Plan and
Greenway Plan update.  Sreyoshi Chakraborty, MPO Office, provided information on compilation of
the proposed plan which involved an 18 month planning and data driven process; vision for the health,
safety and welfare needs of the community involving safer bike routes and connectivity; communication
and coordination of the plan’s development through an advisory committee and local, county, state and
city agencies and staff; public meetings that had been held and surveys conducted, and plan correlation
with the 2005 Cheyenne Transportation Master Plan.  Jeff Wiggins, Parks and Recreation Department,
discussed the safe routes to school program and commented on the plan being a guide for short and long
range planning representing a unified vi sion for the c ommunity.  He pr ovided information on the
Greenway Plan update; advised the draft plan as well as the final draft has been available for public
review on the City ’s website throug hout the proce ss, and commented on the  plan pr oviding
identification of safer bike routes.  Dick Krahenbuhl, Greenway Advisory Committee member, spoke
in favor of the On Street Bicycle Plan and its attributes in reflecting foresight, planning and commitment
to the future of Cheyenne, noting the plan is not a construction document.  Frank Cole commented on
his concerns with the plan as follows:  County Planning Commission has not yet acted on the plan,
accessibility to t he Greenway by all persons in all conditions, need to review City laws relative to
motorized assistive vehicles on the Greenway (i.e. motorized bicycles and wheelchairs), and  path
connectivity involving the area near Converse Avenue and Ogden Road.  Jeff Moench spoke in support
of the plan a s a valua ble resource for the c ommunity.  Todd Fe ezer, Assistant Direct or, Parks and
Recreation Department, reviewed recent successes in acquiring funding through grants and donations
for a ssistance with pre -planning and construc tion of projects, noting  the cur rent Holliday  Park
Greenway Connector Project and Paul Smith’s Children’s Village in Lions Park.  He explained an on-
street bicycle plan is the safest way to convey  bicyclists into areas whe re a Greenway path is not
available, and commented that acquiring property for Greenway path extensions is becoming harder to
achieve.  Ms. Ash reported there was no recommendation on the item from Public Services Committee.
Ms. Ash  moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Discussion followed on safety concerns involving
vehicular drivers and bicycle operators and level of know ledge and e xperience in sha ring roadway
environments; shared lane markings; bicycle parking requirements for new or re-development projects,
and having a conceptual document in place to assist with opportunities to seek potential grant funding
to help with future implementation of the plan.  Staff and bicycle advisory committee participants were
commended for their efforts in developing the plan.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body. (#5413)
RESOLUTION - Au thorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for Worldwide
Subdivision, a portion of the NE¼ NE¼ of Section 11, T.13N., R.67W., of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the I-25/I-80 interchange).  Ms. Ash moved to adopt with staff recommendations
#2 and #3, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body.
(#5414)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for Ca mpstool
Addition, Fourth Filing, situate in portions of the NE¼ of Sec tion 31 and the NW¼ of Section 32,
T.14N., R.65W., 6th P.M., and a replat of a portion of Campstool Addition, First Filing, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to I -80 Service Road, eas t of Industry Road and south of
Venture Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5415)
 RESOLUTION - Authorizing a special use approval for a creative sign program for Block 392,
Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (The Dinneen Block located on Lincolnway between Pioneer and
Thomes).  Randy  Byers, The Design Studio, architectura l firm working  with the applicant ( Dinco
Development, L LC), provided infor mation on proposed conditions off ered by the deve loper (i.e .
applicant), instead of recommended staff conditions, during discussion on the item at Public Services
Committee.  I t was conf irmed that members of  the g overning body  had re ceived a copy  of the
developer's proposed conditions.  Ms. Ash moved to adopt, seconded by  Ms. Broyles.  Ms. Ash moved
to amend by using Dinco Development, LLC conditions instead of City staff conditions #1 through #4,
seconded by Ms. Broy les.  Mr. By ers clarified the r evisions offered by the deve loper included 5
recommendations.  C omments fo llowed regarding the Dinneen Block p roject an d t he d eveloper's
financial commitment to the downtown throug h projec t are a improveme nts; concern with staff
conditions that had been proposed; support for the developer to be able to proceed with their proposed
signage and landscaping plans; developer's request for unique signage, and clarification of the pending
motion and the number of developer conditions proposed.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen verified the
motion on the floor wa s to amend by  using the  develope r's conditions as proposed.  B randon
Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, clarified this special use would allow for  creative
signage affiliated with a redevelopment project that would not otherwise be allowed, and stated staff
has r eviewed th e d eveloper's c onditions a nd s upports th e s ame.  M r. Byers p rovided in formation
involving the unique aspects of one of the signs, which will be used as a screening and support structure
for the dow ntown 17th Street Pedestrian L ighting and Bea utification Project.  He stated e lectrical
equipment to be installed will provide sufficient power for anticipated downtown events and activities.
Motion to amend carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms.
Ash voting "no".  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body.
(#5416)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting a Schedule of Application Fees, Initial License Fees and Renewal
License Fees for certain new classifications of City of Cheyenne Contractor Licenses and Building
Trade Licenses -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on
County Projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2013-2014 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant Funding -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in agreement
on a Garage Project for the Town of Burns to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for
the 2013-2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor
- Mr. Collins).
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department Victim Witness Program, and the
State of Wy oming, Division of Victim Service s, for services to victims of cr ime (Victim Service s
grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5889)
[CA] Contract Employment Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Police D epartment, and
William Linden, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5890)
[CA] Contract Employment Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Police D epartment, and
Brenda Johnson, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5891)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Leslie
Burch, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5892)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Con tract No. 5414 between the City of Cheyenne and Clean
Harbors Environmental Services, Inc., for Hazardous Waste Disposal Services, Cheyenne Household
Hazardous Waste Facility -- referred to Finance Committee.
 Consideration of Bid #M-23-12 for contracts between the City of Cheyenne and Inman Roofing,
Inc., Chey enne, Wy oming, and Weather craft Company , Scottsbluff-Ger ing, N ebraska, for  Roof
Replacement at Municipal Building and Civic Center  (SLIB-12 funding).  Reporting  for F inance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to accept the bid submitted by Inman Roofing, Inc. in the amount of
$138,229.00, and the bid from Weathercraft Company in the amount of $27,720.00, for a total bid
amount of $165,949.00, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute contracts
to accept the bid from Inman Roofing, Inc. in the amount of $192,035.00, and the bid from Weathercraft
Company in the amount of $80,975.00, for a total bid amount of $273,010.00 with additional funding
of $107,010.00 to be transferred from general fund reserves, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  It was explained
that the initial total bid amount would onl y be enough funding, as received from the State Land and
Investment Board program, to replace certain segments of the roof, and that the proposed amendment,
utilizing reserves, would enable all of the roof work to be completed at the same time.  It was noted
there are several roof problem areas that need to be fixed.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting "yes" --
all members of the governing body.  Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, stated that with
staff oversight they will be able to identif y specific areas of the roof tha t each company works on
relative to any warranty issues.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the
governing body. (#5893/#5894)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-24-12 for  a contr act between the City of Chey enne, Engineering
Department, and Modern Electric Co., Casper, Wyoming, for Ridge Road Traffic Signal Replacement
Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5895)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-1-13 f or a contract between the City  of Chey enne, Engineering
Department, and Kolbe Striping, Inc., Castle Rock, Colorado, for 2012 Epoxy Striping Project (2007-
2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for 2 Doors Down 2, Inc.
d/b/a 2 Doors Down 2, 1802 Dell Range Boulevard, Suite 2, Chey enne, Wyoming.  To a void any
perception of conf lict i nvolving a business relationship with the applica nt, Mr. Spiker dec lared a
conflict of interest and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr.
Collins.  Mo tion car ried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all m embers of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Spiker returned to Council Chambers.
Re-Appointment of Jeannine R. Stallings to the Cheyenne Public Transit Advisory Board.  Mr.
Pierson moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
[CA] Annual Report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements made at the Airport Golf
Course as required by Lease Agreement -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement of Appointments of Scott French and Amiee Reese to the Visit Cheyenne Board
to be confirmed August 13, 2012. 
Under other business, William Overling expressed concerns regarding the Cadillac Ranch Bar
and its businss effect on his neighborhood, citing problems with noise, parking, debris, vandalism and
pedestrian safety, and the process for approving noise permits when dealing with excessive noise.  He
suggested City Council consider utilizing EPA guidelines for establishing an excessive noise program.
Mr. O verling f urther c ommented o n th e fo llowing top ics:  L imiting no ise pe rmits un der c ertain
conditions and situations that involve events and activities to be held near residential neighborhoods,
suggested applications for permits be reviewed and approved through the City Council meeting process;
concern with City Council approval of certain types of liquor licenses for business locations that are in
close proximity to residential areas, and providing special parking areas (with permits) designated for
residents in mixed use commercial/residential areas.  He thanked the Police Department and elected
officials for their assistance in responding to his neighborhood concerns.  It was advised there are some
existing special residential parking areas, pursuant to City Code, within the City.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 7:18 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 31, 2012