MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-08-13 | CLIP_ID: 324 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 324

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 August 13, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson,  Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Absent: Mr.
Allen and Mr. Collins. Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan
White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the a genda.)  Mr. Spiker moved to appr ove Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr.
Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 23, 2012.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown  declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a  voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Servic es and vac ated Council Chamber s.  Mr. Valde z moved to approve pa yment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council C hambers.  Following  announcement of the vote, Mr. Br own
returned to Council Chambers.
Ordinance pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts
Established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MUR Mixed Use with Residential Emphasis District to
MUB Mixed Use with Business Emphasis District for the South ½ of Lot 1, the West 5.72 feet of the
North 66 feet of Lot 1, all of Lots 2, 3 and 4, Block 201, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
at the southeast corner of the intersection of Warren Avenue and E. 23rd Street).  Jan Nelson-Schroll
referenced comments of concern regarding the proposed zone change that she expressed at the August
8  Public Services Committ ee me eting as we ll as documents (lett er and photo packe t) she hadth
submitted at the Committee meeting (on file with City Clerk’s office). She reiterated and commented
on se veral of  he r c oncerns in volving commercial/retail b usiness a ctivities a nd e ncroachments in
residential neighborhoods; MUB vs. MUR landscaping requirements; demolition of the house within
the block that she believes is a heritage structure and asbestos removal from same; need for alternative
ideas to kee p and re store the integ rity of re sidential neighborhoods and he ritage homes (example:
structure relocation efforts), and the importance of historical-based tourism involving structures, and
historic building revitalization and preservation efforts.  Randy Byers, The Design Studio, agent for
applicant, Meridian Trust Federal Credit Union, expressed his understanding of certain concerns stated
by Ms. Nelson-Schroll and verified the property to be re-zoned does not involve the house that will be
demolished.  He a dvised the house is not l ocated within an historic district and that any  asbestos
removal will be handled in ac cordance with required specifications, and commented on the natural
evolution of city growth generally and the economic feasibility difficulties of re-locating structures.
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Comments followed on the proposed re-zoning area involving the applicant’s
drive-through and parking areas and not affecting the outcome of the house that may be demolished,
and encroachment concerns balanced with business needs and requests.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present. (#3956)
Ordinance granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to High West Energy, Inc., its
successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute electricity to the City and all persons,
businesses, and industry within a portion of the City High West’s certificated territory and the right to
acquire, construct, install, locate, maintain, operate and extend into, within and through said City all
facilities reasonably necessary to furnish, sell and distribute electricity within the City and the right to
make reasonable use of all streets and other public places and public easements as herein defined as may
be necessary; and fixing the terms and conditions thereof.  Due to postponement of the item from  July
9, 2012, Mayor Kaysen referred the item back to Finance Committee and stated that it had come to his
attention that High West Energy has requested the ordinance be withdrawn from the a genda.   Mr .
Brown, one of the ordinance sponsors, advised he was aware a letter had been submitted to the City
Clerk from the attorney representing High West Energy requesting the ordinance be withdrawn from
the Council’s meeting  agenda, and inquired whe ther a representative from Hig h West E nergy was
present at the meeting to provide information regarding the request.  Randy Reed, attorney for High
West Energy, confirmed High West has requested this item be withdrawn explaining High West would
like more time to continue communications with Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power and the City, noting
High West plans to come back at a later date to request a franchise and withdrawing the item now will
alleviate the need to ask for additional postponements due to continuing discussions.  Upon query by
Mayor Kaysen to the other City Council ordinance sponsors, as well as other Council members present,
no objection was voic ed by Council members re garding the re quest to withd raw the item.  May or
Kaysen then announced the item was being withdrawn from the agenda.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting a Schedule of Application Fees, Initial License Fees and Renewal
License Fees for certain new classifications of City of Cheyenne Contractor Licenses and Building
Trade Licenses.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5417)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on
County Projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2013-2014 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant Funding.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5418)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in agreement
on a Garage Project for the Town of Burns to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for
the 2013-2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5419)
RESOLUTION - S upporting the  City  of  Che yenne’s Ap plication f or Re creational T rails
Program (RTP) Funds to c reate the North Cheyenne Community Park Trail System – r eferred to
Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez).  Ma yor Kaysen referred the item to
Finance Committee.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown advised the item wa s reviewed
under other items for the agenda at the August 6  Finance Committee meeting and provisions of Titleth
2 of City Code have been met.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Jeff Wiggins,
Parks & Recreation Department, stated the grant is administered through the Wyoming State Parks and
Cultural Resources Department and the grant request is to implement approximately 11,000 lineal feet
of trails within North Cheyenne Community Park that would serve hikers, trail joggers and mountain
bicyclists.  He stated the estimated project cost is $50,000 and the grant request will be $35,000 with
the City’s grant match amount of $15,000 being provided (donated) by area businesses.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5419)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Grenville
Subdivision, First Filing, a replat of the West 44 feet of Lot 3, Lots 4-7 and the East 10 feet of Lot 8,
Block 1 , Lake M innehaha A ddition a nd Lots 2 1-30, B lock 1 , Re subdivision o f Lake M innehaha
Addition, and the alley between said lots, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to E.
Lincolnway, west of Hot Springs Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms.
Ash).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the  Fisca l Year  2012 budg et of the Cit y of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor
– Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the  Fisca l Year  2013 budg et of the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor
-- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to Approve and Accept the Fiscal Year 2011
Staffing f or Adequate Fire  and Emer gency Response (SAF ER) Gra nt from the United States
Department of Homeland Security in the amount of $846,090.00 (Award No. EMW-2011-FH-00743)
– referred to Finance Committee (sponsor – Mr. Brown).
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between Laramie County, Wyoming, and the City of Cheyenne
– referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] User Agre ement between the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation De partment, a nd
Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, to host the 2012-2013 season at the City-owned Ice and
Events Center – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Media Sales Ag ency Ag reement betwee n the C ity of C heyenne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC and SeeHear Media, LLC, for Static Visual
Advertising at the City-owned Ice and Events Center – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Wind Energy Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Wind, LLC, for
Windpower Facilities on the Belvoir Ranch – referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5414 between the City of Cheyenne and Clean
Harbors Environmental Services, Inc., for Hazardous Waste Disposal Services, Cheyenne Household
Hazardous Waste Facility.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $100,000.00)
(#5414)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-1-13 for a contract between the C ity o f C heyenne, Engineering
Department, and Kolbe Striping, Inc., Castle Rock, Colorado, for 2012 Epoxy Striping Project (2007-
2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion to accept bid (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to
exceed $129,025.00). (#5897)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-2- 13 for a  contra ct betwe en the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and
Recreation Administration, and Pioneer Construction Co., I nc., Cheyenne, Wyoming,  for the new
concessions and toilet facilities for Pioneer Park Project (State and Local Grants funding) – referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-4-13 for furnishing bulk Ice Control Product to the City of Cheyenne,
Public Works Department (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
Appointments of Scott Fre nch and A miee Reese to the Visit Cheyenne Board.  Mr . Spiker
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. B rown.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
[CA] Annual Report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements made at the Airport Golf
Course as required by Lease Agreement.  Motion to acknowledge receipt (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Request by retail liquor licensee One East Sixteenth, LLC, 1601 Central Avenue, for a 90 day
extension of the time frame condition placed on the license pertaining to a lease agreement with a
restaurant establishment to operate within the building – referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement w as made that the Laramie County Republican Party will be  sponsoring a
Calcutta to be held Saturday, September 22, 2012 beginning at 6:00 p.m. at the Kiwanis Community
House, 4603 Lions Park Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the Red State Rendezvous
(Proceeds to benefit Laramie County Republican Party).
Announcement was made of a Public Meeting to be held Monday August 27, 2012 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the purpose of receiving
public comment on the submission of a 5307 Federal Grant to fund transportation services by Cheyenne
Transit for Fiscal Year 2013.
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Michael A. Metzler to the Contractor Licensing
Board to be confirmed August 27, 2012.
Under other business:
James Perrott Macneil made statements in opposition to any wind turbine farm development on
the Belvoir Ranch; expressed Belvoir Ranch ownership concerns, and reviewed his family lineage.
In response to Council member inquiry regarding the removal of geese from Holliday Park due
to a construction project at Lincolnway and Dunn Ave., Mayor Kaysen advised upon completion of the
reconstruction of the intersection and the Greenway connector, the geese will be relocated back to the
park.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 6:30 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 August 20, 2012