MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-08-27 | CLIP_ID: 326 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 326

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 August 27, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson,  Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr.
Valdez. Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
PRESENTATION FROM THE  CITY OF CHEYENNE TO CHEYENNE FRONTIER DAYS
FOR THEIR WORK DURING CFD 2012.  Police Chief Brian Kozak commended Cheyenne Frontier
Days leadership and vo lunteers for their responsible liquor mana gement procedures and policies at
Frontier Park during the recent annual CFD event and presented the organization, through Rod Hottle,
this year’s General Chairman, with the annual Police Chief’s award.  Chief Kozak also presented Dawn
Thompson w ith a commemorative Ca lvary Ho nor G uard sw ord in  re cognition of  he r e fforts i n
spearheading the CFD’s liquor management program.  Participating in the presentation were members
of the Police Department’s Calvary Honor Guard.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desi gnation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Rinne
and Ms. Ash, agenda items #13 and #21(d) were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Brown moved
to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on Aug ust 13, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown  declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a  voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Spiker moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following  announcement of the vote, Mr . Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public meeting f or the purpose of receiving public comment on the
submission of a 5307 Federal Grant to fund transportation services by Cheyenne Transit for Fiscal Year
2013.  J oe Doug herty, Transit Dire ctor, c larified the y wer e re questing $784,911.00 in Fede ral
assistance, and City  Gene ral F und Revenue  in the amount of $40 9,130.00.  He a dvised it takes
$1,666,553 to run the bus program, and reviewed various services that are provided.  There being no
further comments and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE - Amending, repealing, and creating certain sections of Chapter  10.52, Stopping,
Standing, and Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, relating to the Parking of Recreational Vehicles and Trailers – referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsors – Ms. Ash, Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez). 
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Grenville
Subdivision, First Filing, a replat of the West 44 feet of Lot 3, Lots 4-7 and the East 10 feet of Lot 8,
Block 1, Lake Minnehaha Addition a nd Lots 21- 30, Block 1, Resubdivision of Lake M innehaha
Addition, and the alley between said lots, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to E.
Lincolnway, west of Hot Springs Avenue).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash advised
there was no recommendation on the item from the Committee.  Ms. Ash moved to adopt, seconded by
Ms. Broyles.  It was noted that questions raised at the Committee meeting had been answered by the
City Engineer.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  (#5421)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the  Fisca l Year  2012 budg et of the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5422)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the  Fisca l Year  2013 budg et of the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5423)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to Approve and Accept the Fiscal Year 2011
Staffing for Ade quate F ire a nd Emerg ency Response (SAF ER) Grant from the United States
Department of Homeland Security in the amount of $846,090.00 (Award No. EMW-2011-FH-00743).
Chief James Martin, Fire and Rescue Department, clarified the grant will provide funding for salaries
and benefits to hire 5 additional firefighters for a 2 year term, noting the additional staff will assist in
providing coverage for increased areas to the City .  Reporting  for F inance Committee, Mr. B rown
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Chief Martin explained the current Collective
Labor Agreement states there will be a minimum of 88 firefighters and unless the number changes over
the next 2 y ears it will  remain the same.  He  explained the City  will not be obligated to reta in the
additional firefighters at the end of the 2 year term.  Discussion included concerns with expiration of
the grant funding and maintaining the required number of firefighters; Labor Agreement provisions
relative to staffing requirements and future negotiations, and overtime costs.  Upon inquiry, Jon Narva,
Operations Chief, verified the grant allows for the hiring of up to 5 additional firefighters and if less
than 5 were hired the grant funding amount would be reduced accordingly.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5424)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Au thorizing the filing of an a pplication w ith t he F ederal Transit
Administration, an operating administration of the United States Depa rtment of Transportation, for
Federal Transportation Assistance authorized by Title 49, United States Code, Section 5307 (Cheyenne
Transit Program) – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Amending Resolution No. 5335 Authorizing the City of Cheyenne, through
the City  Attorney ’s Off ice, to commenc e conde mnation proce edings to obtain certa in temporary
construction easements for the use of certain land generally located at 1900 Converse Avenue necessary
for the c ompletion of the East Pershing  Boule vard Rec onstruction Project – re ferred to F inance
Committee (sponsor – Mr. Collins).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Repe aling Resolution No. 4919;  authori zing the Dire ctor of the  City of
Cheyenne Par ks and Recr eation De partment to  establish fees f or the use of  fac ilities and f or
participation in programs administered by the Recreation, Golf and Leisure Services Divisions; and
directing that certain discounts be made available to City employees, City retirees and their immediate
family members – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor – Ms. Broyles).
RESOLUTION - Repealing Resolution No. 5417 and adopting application, initial and renewal
fees for certain new classifications of City of Cheyenne contractor licenses and building trade licenses
– referred to Finance Committee (sponsor – Mr. Brown).  Mr. Brown advised the item was reviewed
under other items for the agenda at the August 20  Finance Committee meeting and provisions of Titleth
2 of City Code had been met.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Bruce Wilson,
Chief Building Official, explained the purpose of the resolution was to provide for inclusion of a new
Class R  lic ense c lassification, wh ich p ertains to s ingle-family bu ildings, wh ich w as in advertently
omitted from the schedule (Exhibit A) of new licenses and fees submitted with the initial resolution that
was previously adopted.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5425)
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the Street and Alley Road
Maintenance Facility Addition Project, Phase I – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for the Snyder Avenue Sewer Rehabilitation Project from West 24  Street toth
West Pershing Boulevard – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Prioritizing the City of Cheyenne’s September 2012 applications for Mineral
Royalty Capital Construction Grants – referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown and Mr.
Collins).
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between Laramie County, Wyoming, and the City of Cheyenne.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5899)
[CA] User Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Cheyenne
Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, to host the 2012-2013 season at the City-owned Ice and Events
Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5900)
[CA] Media Sales Ag ency Ag reement between the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC and SeeHear Media, LLC, for Static Visual
Advertising at the City-owned Ice and Events Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5901)
Wind Energy Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Wind, LLC, for
Windpower Facilities on the Belvoir Ranch.  James Perrott Macneil spoke in opposition to any lease,
or sub-lease, agreements involving the Belvoir Ranch property, and expressed Belvoir Ranch ownership
concerns.  Ed Clark expressed c oncerns w ith a esthetic vie ws a nd ph ysical a ppearances r elated to
gateways into the City; restricting the City’s opportunity for growth; initial purposes of acquiring the
ranch, and long  term impact a  wind far m may be on the c ommunity.  Pau l Edner raised que stions
regarding the view being greatly depreciated if there are 150 more wind turbines within sight of the
western part of the City; income to the City during the project’s development time frame; agreement
provisions addressing any default of the lease by the developer and putting the land back to its original
state, and bonding requirements if the company  becomes insolvent.  Mr. Brow n moved to approve ,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  U pon inquiry, Bruce Morley, CEO,  Mo rley Companies (affiliated with
Cheyenne Wind), reviewed terms of the lease relative to revenue to the City once production begins;
sharing of planning  studies information with the City ; bond cover age provision in the lease ,
environmental study impacts, and location and visual impact of the wind turbines.  Discussion topics
included visual impact c oncerns;  ro yalties t o the City  over the  next 30 y ears from wind turbine
production; Ci ty Council work sessions that have  been he ld on the subject, and le ase a greement
provision involving an option to extend the lease time frame.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney,
reviewed terms in the agreement pertaining to the option to extend the term.  Mr. Morley explained that
due to the natur e of de veloping wind power  projects, it t akes a great deal of time to complete  the
planning, studies and permitting processes involved, and spoke in favor of the option to extend the lease
time frame.  Upon inquiry, Mr. White clarified pursuant to the lease agreement the company must
demonstrate they are making reasonable progress during the additional 5 year lease option and will be
required to make annua l payments as outlined in the lease.  He stated his viewpoint that if it is not
shown there is progress on the project then a resolution could be presented to the governing body to
make that determination and to consider terminating the lease.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen provided
information on the interest in a lease agreement expressed by Cheyenne Wind, LLC, and subsequent
discussions resulting in the pr oposed agreement, noting this ty pe of ex clusive agreement does not
require a compe titive bid process.  Mr. White stated his opinion t hat the g overning body has the
discretionary judgment to decide whether or not to enter into the lease agreement with the company.
Mayor Ka ysen re viewed the  proce ss that resulted in pre paration of the lease  ag reement with the
company, which included utilization of outside legal counsel specializing in wind energy development
agreements, and noted similar State of Wyoming  leases were also reviewed in conjunction with drafting
the proposed lease agreement.  Discussion followed on factors involving the ascertainment of a bonding
amount; whether additional bonding could be required, and whether development of the project was
contingent upon any Congressional tax credit action.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Morley addressed questions
regarding the matter of any Federal wind power tax credits, and discussed Wyoming’s capacity to
generate wind energy.  Tom Zachary questioned whether communication had been made with the Corps
of Engineers regarding the proposed area to be leased relative to restoration of the former missile site
on the property.  Mr. Morley responded that they have interfaced extensively with the Cheyenne Board
of Public Utilities, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Wyoming DEQ and advised it has been agreed
that one project won’t interfere with the other and if it is determined there is a ground water pollution
area, then the project won’t extend into that area.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash voting “no”. (#5902)
 
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming Department of Transportation
and To urism Pr omotion Join t Po wers B oard fo r a  ra ilroad q uiet zon e pr oject a t th e S outhwest
Drive/Union Pacific Railroad Crossing (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Use Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Creative O utdoor Adver tising g iving
permission to install advertising bus shelter benches and pads within and along the City’s Public Rights
of Way – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI to develop the Snyder
Avenue reconstruction design (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5725 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman
Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the East Cheyenne Greenway Phase IV Project (1% Specific
Purpose Sales & Use Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-2-13 for  a contr act be tween the City of Chey enne, Par ks and
Recreation Administration, and Pioneer Construction Co., I nc., Ch eyenne, Wyoming, for the ne w
concessions and toilet facilities for Pioneer Park Project (State and Local Grants funding).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $308,609.00). (#5903)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-4-13 for furnishing bulk Ice Control Product to the City of Cheyenne,
Public Works Department (2007-2010, 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(accept bid from Desert Mountain Corporation, Riverton, WY; amount not to exceed $114,880.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-5-13 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction,
and CBJ Asphalt and Concrete Contractors, LLC, Phoenix, Arizona, for Fiscal Year 2013 Crack Seal
Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of Michael A. Metzler to the Contractor Licensing Board.  Mr. Collins moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
[CA] Request by retail liquor licensee One East Sixteenth, LLC, 1601 Central Avenue, for a 90 day
extension of the time frame c ondition placed on the lice nse pertaining to a  lease agreement with a
restaurant establishment to operate within the building.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (approved
to extend the time frame to October 23, 2012).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing  to be held September 10, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership and transfer
of location for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Safeway Stores 46,
Inc. d/b/a Safeway Store #2975, 305 Cole Shopping Center, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held
by Lambousis Revocable Trust, 112 W. 17  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming).th
Announcement was made that due to the L abor Day holiday on Monday, September 3, 2012,
regularly scheduled City Council Committee Meetings will instead be held in the Municipal Building,
Room 122, 2 101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee will meet
Tuesday, S eptember 4 , 2 012 a t 1 1:00 a .m. a nd P ublic S ervices C ommittee w ill m eet W ednesday,
September 5, 2012 at Noon.
Under other business:
Barbie Harrington questioned the amount of money the City has spent to date on attorney fees
regarding the “taking” involving the Hollywood Video property.  Dan White, City Attorney, advised
legal fees incurred are approaching $30,000 and that negotiations are continuing, noting a right-of-entry
hearing is scheduled for Nov. 26, 27 and 28 in district court.  Ms. Ha rrington commented on re cent
governing body approval of a bicycle route plan and questioned if it could be repealed as there appeared
to be a lot of “tentacles” in the plan.  She stated her concerns with public awareness of the lengthy plan
document.  Upon Ms. Harrington’s inquiry to Ms. Ash, Ms. Ash explained the document is simply a plan
for guidance, which may be reviewed/revised in the future, and allows for the capability to apply for
grant funds.  Ms. Ha rrington further commented on r evoking the Uni form Development Code, and
expressed concerns with property rights and public awareness; Belvoir Ranch exclusive lease agreement,
and recently reported $3,000,000 in funds that  was  “found” in the City ’s budget.  May or Kaysen
confirmed the $3,000,000 amount was not “lost”; it was a budgeted amount and is the difference in what
was available funding in last year’s budget vs. what was expended.
Pursuant to comment regarding weed removal on City owned property near the intersection of
Converse and Pershing, Mayor Kaysen advised that maintenance of the property was done earlier this
season and he would address further work regarding the weeds. 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 7:23 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 September 10, 2012