MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-09-10 | CLIP_ID: 331 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 331

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 September 10, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins,  Dr. Rinne (arriving at 6:01 p.m.) and Mr.
Spiker.  Absent: Mr. Pierson and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  Members of Boy Scout Troop 116 present at the meeting
led the pledge of allegiance.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Ms. Ash, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Collins
and Ms. Broyles, agenda item #22(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Collins moved to
approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Governing Body on Aug ust 27, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown  declared a conflict of interest (business interest) due to a  voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services  and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Spiker  moved to approve  payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council C hambers.  Following  announcement o f the vote, Mr . Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public meeting for the purpose of receiving comments and input on a
transfer of ownership and transfer of location for a retail liquor license application filed with the City
Clerk's Office for Safeway Stores 46, I nc. d/b/a Safeway Store #2975, 305 Cole Shopping Center ,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (License c urrently he ld b y Lambousis R evocable Tr ust, 1 12 W. 1 7  Str eet,th
Cheyenne, Wy oming).  J ohn Sundahl, attorney  repr esenting Safew ay Stores, ref erenced thr ee
documents he  ha d p rovided Co uncil m embers; in troduced staff members of  Sa feway Sto res in
attendance at the meeting, and reviewed the proposed location and size of building where they plan to
transfer the liquor license  for the pur pose of operating a package liquor store.  He noted Safeway’s
support to various org anizations, agencies and a ctivities and commitm ent to the community , and
advised the Board of Adjustment recently approved a conditional use permit for the type of business
proposed at the location.  J eff F ergot, D esign M anager a nd C orporate A rchitect f or S afeway,
commented on the site r eview and clarified they have a n architect engaged to do re novations for 2
buildings that will re main on the site, and a dvised a pha sing plan is in place.  He  reviewed square
footage of the building and exterior improvements planned for the package liquor store, and stated the
store will provide a convenience for their customers and shoppers in the area.   Jay Gomez, Safeway
District Manager, reviewed the store’ s liquor training  for staf f, which inc ludes TIPS training, a nd
enforcement policies, and reviewed security measures that will be in place.  Mr. Sundahl further advised
as part of the Board of Adjustment application process they were required to notify individuals that live
in the area of the time and place of the Board of Adjustment mee ting.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Sundahl
confirmed Safeway has an existing lease in place for the property proposed for the package liquor store
and if the license is approved and Safeway should want to move the license to a different location in
the future, an application requesting a change of location is required to come before the governing body.
Larry Proietti, Foy Jolly, and Major Dorr spoke in opposition to the transfer of location and ownership,
raising the following concerns: Alcohol sales in a g rocery store envir onment; past g overning body
actions denying similar application requests; competitive concerns involving grocery stores vs. liquor
stores; negative alcohol environment relative to youth presence, and concerns with setting a precedent
by issuing a retail liquor license to a grocery store applicant and the proposed location being adjacent
to a residential neighborhood.  Annette Williams requested information on how near-by residents were
notified of the proposed package store relative to the Board of Adjustment process and requested a copy
of the letter that Safeway issued.  John Lambousis spoke in support of the transfer commenting on his
years involved in the liquor business, Safeway’s plans to o perate a small scale site, in a separate
building with its own entrance/exit, and Safeway’s plans to redevelop the area, noting the opportunity
for additional community businesses and sales tax benefits.  Jan Nelson-Schroll spoke in support of the
concept of revitalizing the shopping center area and Safeway’s re-development plans, which will not
intrude into the residential neighborhood.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Sundahl provided further information on
the notifications to residents in the a rea, pursuant to the B oard of Adjustment process, and content
contained in the notices, noting notifications were issued twice due to the matter being continued before
the Board due to the lack of a quor um.  Pursuant to Ms. W illiams’ previous request, he advised he
would provide a copy of the notification that was issued to residents to the Development Office to share
with Ms. Williams.  Com ments made by governing body members included inquiries pertaining to
leasing of the property, potential future re-location of the license, and concerns with youth and domestic
challenges currently observed in the suring residential neighborhood.  There being no further comments
and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the
application to Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE - Amending, repealing, and creating certain sections of Chapter  10.52, Stopping,
Standing, and Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, relating to the Parking of Recreational Vehicles and Trailers.  The following individuals
spoke in reference to the ordinance:  Joe McKee, Walter Barber, Peggy Hehr, Scott Dominick, Glenn
Crock, Connie Cranmore, John Dunlay, Charlie Giroux, Frank Cole, Frank Cross, Tom Zachary, M.
Lee Hasenauer an d Ba rbie H arrington.  T opics p resented an d d iscussed i ncluded:  Al lowing a
reasonable amount of time for RVs (recreational vehicles) or trailers to be parked on streets, especially
in neighborhoods with narrow street widths; being able to park an RV in front of your own residence;
utilization of off-site RV storage facilities; concerns with neighbors parking multiple vehicles, including
but not limited to RVs, on the street which occupy street space in front of other residents’ homes;
current parking restrictions involving a required distance (i.e. 10 ft.) from the street centerline and how
many streets in the City are affected by the distance; safety hazards regarding other visual obstructions
such as trees and bushes blocking drivers’ view at intersections; legally parked vehicles; “eye-sore” vs.
safety issues pertaining to intent of the ordinance; width of RVs vs. various other types of vehicles;
definition of an RV relative to large sized vehicles (ex: Peterbilt) converted for use as an RV; allowing
property owners to determine who parks in front of their home and being courteous neighbors; standards
for street widths outlined in the Unified Development Code (UDC); uniform enforcement concerns;
whether the ordinanc e, if a pproved, is elig ible for a referendum by petition process, a nd g eneral
perception that the proposed or dinance punishes RV/trail er owners.  Dur ing comments and upon
inquiry, Nathan Beauheim, Assistant City Engineer, stated he estimated that any City street built prior
to the WWII time frame probably doesn’t have the required 10 ft. parking distance  width and provided
information generally on where many of these streets are located, noting he would try to compile further
information pursuant to the inquiry for the next Public Services Committee meeting.  He further advised
the standard street width is 36 ft. per  the UDC.  Upon inquiry , Dan White, City Attorney, reviewed
current City Code requirements involving the 10 ft. distance for streets that have centerline pavement
markings vs. changes in the proposed ordinance.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Ms. Ash moved to amend by substitute
(dated 9-5-12), seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon query, Mr. White reviewed the changes contained in
the proposed substitute involving the penalty clause, parking distance from railroad crossings and 30
ft. distance f rom intersec tions, and expl ained the distance scenar io of “bump out” c urb lines at
intersections.  Mr. Giroux questioned the penalty provisions with Police Chief Brian Kozak responding
that any penalty imposed would be through the court’s determination regarding setting of a bond and
penalty amount.  James Perrott Macneil commented on problems with corners and visibility; t hat
owners have a financial investment in their purchase and shouldn’t be required to store their vehicles
off-site, and spoke in opposition to regulated parking.  Ms. Broyles raised a point of order stating her
belief that comments being made were not relevant to the motion on the floor, and noted the ordinance
does allow for people to park RVs in front of their own homes and does not require them to privately
store their vehicles.  Ms.  Ash moved to call for the question, seconded by Mr. Brown.  M r. White
advised the call for the question is a motion to limit debate and requires a 2/3rd’s affirmative vote to
pass.  Motion failed.  Voting  “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Ms. Broyles and Dr. Rinne.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Collins, Mr. Spiker and Mayor Kaysen.  Discussion followed on the minimum 10
ft. distance from street centerline, or centerline pavement marking, relative to safety concerns that some
streets are not wide enough for emergency response vehicles if RVs/tra ilers as well as other motor
vehicles are parked on both sides of the street, and concern with neighbor/neighborhood conflicts.
Motion to amend by substitute failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body present.  Ms.
Ash moved to amend by  substitute (dated 9-7-2012), seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry, Mr.
White advised the substitute corrects punctuation errors; reinserted a provision that states it is illegal
to park where official signs prohibit parking, and added language allowing RVs or trailers that have a
width of 36 or fewer feet to be parked on a street for a period of 72 hours for the purposes of loading
and unloading and provided further that “slide outs” of a RV may not be deployed during loading and
unloading.  Mr. Dominick commented on sa fety regarding emergency response vehicles a nd street
passage width involving an RV parked in the street within the 72 hour time frame.  Comments followed
regarding safety concerns involving street width relative to the 72 hours allowable time frame; safety
vs. aesthetic issue, and 30 ft. parking distance from any point formed by an intersection as outlined in
the pr oposed o rdinance.  U pon inqui ry, Ch ief K ozak r eviewed v isibility lim itations wi thin a  sit e
distance triangle at intersections and advised this provision would help reduce crashes, particularly at
uncontrolled intersections.  Chief Kozak discussed diagrams he had provided showing examples of site
distance triangles and parked vehicles’ effect on driver visibility, and noted, if this provision goes into
effect, it would be actively enforced and the public would need to be educated on the requirement.
Upon inq uiry regarding e nforcement o f t he 72  ho ur pa rking lim itation, Chi ef K ozak a dvised th is
restriction would be hard to be actively enforced and would require dialogue and contact with RV/trailer
owners.  Discussion followed on favorable aspects of the 30 ft. parking distance at intersections; parking
distance from fire hydrants and driveways; suggestion that two separate ordinances could be considered
addressing safety vs. RV parking issues, and whether any existing handicap parking spaces may violate
the 30 ft. re quirement.  Mr. A llen moved to amend Sec tion 10.52.030 by striking the phr ase “for a
period of seventy-two (72) hours” and Section 10.52.200 A. 3. by adding the phrase “excluding Class
B motor homes” at the end of the sentence, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Commenting on the proposed
amendment were:  Mr. Dominick, Gary Freeman, Mr. Hasenauer, Mr. Zachary and Victor Ciccone.
Topics discussed included: Size of Class B motor homes; enforcement of 5 ft. parking distance from
driveways; addressing shrubbery at intersections as a safety hazard; whether an ordinance regarding a
distance restriction is needed vs. curb painting; potential additional law enforcement personnel needs,
and inclusion of motor coaches with 10 wheels relative to the definition of a recreational vehicle.
During comments, Chief Kozak provided information on enforcement of the 5 ft. parking distance from
driveways, stating this portion of the ordinance will not change much with regard to curr ent
enforcement.  Comments followed in opposition to removing the 72 hour time frame and the proposed
amendment generally.  Motion to amend the proposed substitute failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms.
Broyles and Dr . Rinne.  Voting “ no” -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Br own, Mr. Col lins, Mr. Spiker and Ma yor
Kaysen.  Motion to amend by  substitute (dated 9-7-12) carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Collins voti ng “no.”  Main motion to approve on
second reading as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body
present with the exception of Mr. Collins voting “no.”
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:22 p.m.  
ORDINANCE - Vacating a Portion of the Right-of-Way of Bradley Avenue at the Intersection
of Bradley Avenue and East 14th Street – referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Zoning  Map Amendme nt, Section 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Of ficial Z oning Ma p of the Unified Deve lopment Code,
changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential Established District to
MUB Mixed-Use B usiness Emphasis District for B lock 16, Park Addition, Chey enne, Wyoming
(located between Richardson and Cosgriff Courts and between Ames Court and Dey Avenue) – referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Of ficial Zo ning Map of the U nified De velopment Code,
Changing the Z oning Cla ssification f rom MU B Mixe d-Use B usiness E mphasis Di strict to  CB
Community Business District for L ots 12-22, Bloc k 656, Orig inal City  (AKA  South C heyenne
Addition), Che yenne, Wyoming ( located a t 504 Central Avenue ) – re ferred to Public Service s
Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
 
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Zoning  Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3  Official Z oning Ma p of the Unifie d Deve lopment Code,
Changing the  Z oning Cla ssification f rom MU B Mixe d-Use Business Em phasis Di strict to  CB
Community Business District for a Portion of Lot 2, Block 3, Plaza Del Range, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at 3308 Dell Range Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the filing of  a n a pplication w ith the  F ederal Transit
Administration, an operating administration of the U nited States Department of Transportation, for
Federal Transportation Assistance authorized by Title 49, United States Code, Section 5307 (Cheyenne
Transit Program).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5426)
RESOLUTION - Amending Resolution No. 5335 Authorizing the City of Cheyenne, through
the City  Attorney ’s Off ice, to commenc e conde mnation proce edings to obtain certa in temporary
construction easements for the use of certain land generally located at 1900 Converse Avenue necessary
for the completion of the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project.  The following individuals
spoke on the proposed resolution:   John Palmer, Eric Miller, Barbie Harrington, Gary Freeman, Annette
Williams and M. Lee Hasenauer.  Topics presented and discussed included: Opposition to the City’s
utilization of the eminent domain process generally; alternative options for roadway and negotiations;
judicial decision-making involvement; suggestion of a different design for the proposed roundabout at
the Pershing/ Converse int ersection (made  by  Mr. Miller who provide d and discussed a  handout
depicting a roundabout design utilized in New Jersey); traffic counts at the intersection of Pershing and
Converse; cost of the roundabout project; conce rn with taking  property and setting  a pre cedent of
concern to property owners; request to reconsider moving forward with the eminent domain process;
notification to citizens and representation of constituents; property needed for the project and the City’s
UDC.  Pursuant to inquiry during comments, Nathan Beauheim, Assistant City Engineer, reviewed
traffic counts for the Pershing/Converse intersection over a period of years; provided information on
estimated costs of the r oundabout project; explained the two phases consisting of the East Pershing
Reconstruction Project and funding sources, which does not involve federal funds for the roundabout
portion.  Upon further inquiry, Mayor Kaysen clarified discussions have been taking place between the
property owner’s legal representative and the City.  During comments regarding the UDC and whether
it is a ffiliated with “Ag enda 21", Mr. Collins raised a point of orde r that the c omments were not
germane with Mayor Kaysen ruling that comments should pertain to the motion on the floor.  In
response to previous comments regarding design of the proposed roundabout, Mr. Beauheim indicated
the needs of fire department vehicles and semi-trucks were taken into consideration during the design.
He e xplained the purp ose of the re solution i s to add temporar y construction ea sements into the
proceeding to allow for “blending” of project improvements, citing curb and gutter as an example, and
noted if the resolution did not pass it would mean improvements would be cut-off at the property line.
Upon inquiry by Mr. Miller regarding the diameter dimension (outside) of the roundabout, Mr .
Beauheim stated he did not have that information with him at the meeting.  Mayor Kaysen requested
Mr. Beauheim follow up with the request.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown stated there
was no recommendation on the item from the Committee.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.
Collins.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Beauheim explained the resolution is to seek permission to make certain
improvements such as curb, gutter and sidewalk that will separate the property from the parking area
and, at the completion of the improvements, access to the property goes away and it is relinquished back
to the property owner, noting the proposed resolution is different from the previous resolution involving
eminent domain to acquire property for the roundabout.  U pon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney,
expressed his impression that the proper ty owner  has no objec tion to the temporar y construction
easements as he has not heard of any objection from the property owner’s attorney, and that, pursuant
to the initial eminent domain resolution and resulting complaint filed involving the Hollywood Video
site, a November 26-28 hearing date has been scheduled.  He explained issues the City must prove at
the hearing (i.e. public convenience and necessity) and judicial determinations involved; reviewed the
amount of the last off er made by the City  to the proper ty owner prior to filing  the conde mnation
complaint, and discussed the additional temporary construction easement involving approximately
1,700 sq. ft. which would be used to “blend” the property.  He noted his understanding that the City
does not need the easements to build the reconstruction project; that other easements have been acquired
along Pershing Blvd. for the project, and that the easements are a benefit to the land owner as it enables
blending of improvements.  Upon query, Mr. Beauheim confirmed after work within the easement areas
are done, the pr operty owner  retai ns ownership of their ar ea, a nd Mr. White verified se ttlement
negotiations with the property owner can still proceed.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present. (#5427)
RESOLUTION - Repe aling Resolution No. 4919; authoriz ing the  Direc tor of the City  of
Cheyenne Par ks and Recr eation De partment to establish fe es for  the us e of facilities and for
participation in programs administered by the Recreation, Golf and Leisure Services Divisions; and
directing that certain discounts be made available to City employees, City retirees and their immediate
family members.  Mr. B rown mo ved to adopt, sec onded by Mr. Spiker. Upon inquiry  reg arding
potential effect on the budget due to discounts, Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, stated it is
unknown at this time whether discounts will affect budget revenues as it is hard to determine how many
eligible persons would participate.  Comments followed on the potential for additional memberships
the City could gain due to the discounts and affordability for employees; beneficial effects that may be
realized in tandem with the Employee Wellness Program; giving the discount program a “pilot try”;
concern with putting the discount program in place and scenario of possibly having to remove it in the
future; annual reporting requirement outlined in the resolution, and wording that states no fee increase
will become e ffective prior to the City ’s next fiscal y ear and be ba sed upon the Western U rban
Consumer Price Index.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Parish clarified that currently fees, except golf fees, are set
by the department director and commented on fees tied to the consumer price index literally vs. “ing”
of amounts.  It was noted that wording in Section 2. States “ ... the Director may, at his or her discretion,
increase the amount of any such fee ...”.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend Section 2. to  delete the balance
of the sentence following the words “fiscal year,” seconded by Mr. Collins.  I t was verified that the
proposed amendment would result in the sentence reading as follows:  “The Director of the Parks and
Recreation Department shall conduct a n annual review of fees charged by the Recreation, Golf and
Leisure Services Divisions and the Director may, at his or her discretion, increase the amount of any
such fee, provided however, that no fee increase shall become effective prior to the commencement of
the City’s next fiscal year.”  Discussion followed on c urrent department fees, other than golf, being
determined administratively by the Dire ctor; concern with employee discounts; elements involving
employee benefit packages generally and current employee investment study, which is not addressing
the benefits areas; employee turnover, and support for the Employee Wellness Program.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr.
Allen and Mr. Brown voting “no”.  It was noted that discounts would not apply to team sports and
events nor to the City’s elected officials.  Upon inquiry regarding the April 1  requirement for an annualst
report, Mr. Parish advised adequate numbers for golf for the first report would not be available since
the sea son is winding down, a nd that other a ctivities could be monitored throug hout the y ear.
Comments followed on acquiring historical fee data and purpose of the report.  Mr. Collins moved to
amend by deleting Section 6. (which removes the requirement to submit an annual report by April 1st
each year ), seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon inquiry regarding tracking of discount fee areas, Mr. Parish
provided information on what’s in place to track certain, but not all, golf users, adding that swimming
users can be tracked if employees show their City I.D., and explained other types of programs that
would be difficult to track   Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Mr. Brown voting “no”.  Main motion as twice amended carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Brown and Dr.
Rinne voting “no”. (#5428)
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the Street and Alley Road
Maintenance Facility Addition Project, Phase I.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5429)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for the Snyder Avenue Sewer Rehabilitation Project from West 24  Street toth
West Pershing Boulevard.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5430)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Prioritizing the City of Cheyenne’s September 2012 applications for Mineral
Royalty Capital Construction Grants.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5431)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to submit a Beneficiary Claim form
to the American Equity Investment Life Insurance Company of Des Moines, Iowa, for Death Benefits
under Life Insurance Contract #018336, insuring the life of Sharon F. Tuck, deceased – referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor – Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the  Fisca l Year  2013 budg et of the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor
– Mr. Brown).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Chaplin Park Annex, a replat of Block 16, Park Ad dition, Cheyenne,
Wyoming ( located be tween Richa rdson and C osgriff Courts and be tween A mes Court and De y
Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee.
 
Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming Department of Transportation
and To urism Pr omotion Join t Po wers B oard fo r a  railr oad quiet zon e pr oject a t th e Sou thwest
Drive/Union Pacific Railroad Crossing (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Mr. Br own moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Upo n inquiry regarding maintenance responsibility if the quiet zon e is
implemented, Nathan Beauheim, Assistant City Engineer, advised the City would be responsible for
the improvements (r aised medi an) i n conjunction with exis ting r esponsibilities.  Motion car ried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5905)
[CA] Use Ag reement between the Ci ty of Chey enne a nd Creative O utdoor Adver tising g iving
permission to install advertising bus shelter benches and pads within and along the City’s Public Rights
of Way.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5906)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI to develop the Snyder
Avenue reconstruction design (2007-2010 1%  Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried
(amount not to exceed $472,155.00). (#5907)
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Community Resource Center of Johnson
County, to lease City-owned property located at 1900 East 18  Street – referred to Finance Committee.th
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and  WINhealth Partners for City employee health
coverage – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5725 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman
Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the East Cheyenne Greenway Phase IV Project (1% Specific
Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $8,221.38).
(#5725)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-5-13 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction,
and CBJ Asphalt and Concrete Contractors, LLC, Phoenix, Arizona, for Fiscal Year 2013 Crack Seal
Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Mot ion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to ex ceed
$808,750.00). (#5908)
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Dave Ohde  to the Downtown Development
Authority Board, to be confirmed September 24, 2012.
Under other business:
Upon request, City Clerk Carol Intlekofer read an Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held
at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, September 24, 2012 in Cit y Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue ,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public comment regarding the intent of the City of Cheyenne to submit
an application for funding to the Wyoming Business Council’s Business Ready Community, Business
Committed Grant Program, to assist Microsoft in establishing a low-impact, renewable energy project
in Cheyenne.
Barbie Harrington commented on agenda item #14 (Resolution to commence condemnation
proceedings to obtain certain temporary construction easements for use at 1900 Converse Avenue) and
queried governing body members with regard to their vote and discussions regarding the Resolution.
Upon her inquiry, Fire Chief Jim M artin advised the City’s largest fire truck will be able to safely
navigate the proposed roundabout to be built at the Pershing/Converse intersection.
Brad Harrington provided a handout regarding the City’s utilization of federal and state dollars
and intergovernmental money (i.e. sales tax revenues) as part of the budget, and read a paragraph from
a past article in the Wyoming Tribune Eagle regarding the City’s budget. He expressed concerns with
using grant money and effect on the City’s budget if federal funding were reduced.
Eric Miller que stioned how pede strians would cross the r oundabout to be built at
Pershing/Converse int ersection a nd response was p rovided b y  Na than Beauheim, As sistant C ity
Engineer, who advised a pedestrian crosses a roundabout the same way they would cross any other
pedestrian crossing.  Upon further inquiry by Mr. Miller regarding what occurs when an emergency
vehicle approaches the roundabout, Mr. Beauheim explained existing traffic would exit the roundabout
the same way you would exit any intersection when an emergency vehicle is coming, which would be
to exist the roundabout and pull over to the side of the road.
M. L ee H asenauer e choed c omments previously  expressed by  Mr. Har rington reg arding
potential future revenue concern relative to federal funding, and commented on PlanCheyenne, property
rights, the Unified De velopment Code (UDC) and process to repeal it, and questioned w hether the
City’s UDC was related to “Agenda 21".  Mayor Kaysen advised the UDC is not linked to “Agenda
21"; explained the code will undergo annual reviews involving public meetings, and stated on-going
discussions and review of the code with developers and contractors are occurring and the public will
have the opportunity to provide input on any proposed changes to the code.  A request was made to Mr.
Hasenauer that he submit UDC items he found to be objectionable.
John Palmer requested documents being discussed at the City Council meetings be  projected
on a screen so everyone could see them, and c ommented on the public participation format during
meetings.  It was noted that discussions are being held regarding use of visual media at meetings.  
William Be nnett expressed conc erns r egarding a construc tion project af fecting on- street
customer pa rking in front of his and his wife ’s re staurant business near the Per shing/Snyder
intersection.  Upon inquiry regarding the project, Nathan Beauheim, Assistant City Engineer, advised
that construction is suppose to be completed in that area some time this week.  Mr. Beauheim advised
they did let the contra ctor know they were not happy with the defe ctive product and he a dvised he
would follow up on it.
Eric Miller questioned adopting the International Code.  James Perrott Macneil commented on
roundabouts located on the east coast and how they are used and spoke in opposition to the roundabout
proposed for Pershing/Converse intersection and using eminent domain to get the land.  He  further
commented on his lineage and advised he disagreed with the resolution to give employees reduced fees
for city recreational activities. 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, Mayor Kaysen adjourned
the meeting at 10:41  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 September 21, 2012
