MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-09-24 | CLIP_ID: 333 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 333

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 September 24, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr.
Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney. 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the a genda.)  Mr. Collins moved to appr ove Consent Ag enda items, sec onded by Mr.
Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 10, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Amer i-Tech HVAC Service s and Radio Station KYOY F M respe ctively) and va cated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Spiker  moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr.
Allen.  Mo tion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” -- all m embers of  the  g overning bo dy pr esent i n Co uncil
Chambers.  F ollowing announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez returned to Council
Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public meeting for the purpose of receiving  public comment regarding
the intent of the City of Cheyenne to s ubmit an application for funding to t he Wyoming Business
Council’s Business Ready Community, Business Committed Grant Program, to assist Microsoft in
establishing a low-impact, renewable energy project in Cheyenne.  Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager,
advised the purpose of the grant request, which is $1.5 million, is to provide infrastructure to facilitate
the Microsoft Data Plant Demonstration Project to be located at the Board of Public Utilities (BOPU)
Dry Creek Water Reclamation Facility.  She stated the project is a public-private partnership and, if the
grant is awarded, it will pay for 20% of the estimated $7.6 million project and that the City is not being
asked to fund any of the proje ct.  Ms. Schneider  referenced an affiliated resolution on the meeting
agenda which will be reviewed at the Oct. 1  Finance Committee meeting with anticipated resolutionst
action taken at the Oct. 8  City Council meeting.  Anja Bendel, Development Director for Cheyenneth
LEADS, clarified that the project is not related to Microsoft’s data center project being constructed west
of the City , and provide d additional projec t information, advising  that Microsoft is exploring
opportunities to reduce their carbon footprint by using renewable resources for its data centers.  She
noted project participants who are entering into a memorandum of understanding related to the project
are:  Microsoft Corp., FuelCell Energy, Inc., BOPU, Cheyenne LEADS, Western Research Institute,
Wyoming Business Council, Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power and the University of Wyoming.  She
stated the fuel cell that will be installed will use methane produced from the biodigester to generate
electricity to run the data server, and that at the end of the demonstration project time frame (i.e. 18
months), the parties involved will determine the viability of continuing the project.  There being no
further comments and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE - Amending, repealing, and creating certain sections of Chapter 10.52, Stopping,
Standing, and Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, relating to the Parking of Recreational Vehicles and Trailers.  The following individuals
spoke in reference to the ordinance: Mike Rosenthal, Steven Miller, Fr ank Cole, Paige Smith, Mike
Schulte, Ed Melko, John Palmer, Tom Zachary and Jeannine Stallings.  Topics presented and discussed
included: Community health, safety and welfare issues relative to timely emergency vehicle response
access; concerns with allowing an indefinite parking time frame and limiting public access generally
to rights-of-way; parking of recreational vehicles (RVs) and trailers elsewhere than on streets; 10 ft.
street width minimum concerns; reservations that approving the ordinance will lead to future on-street
parking restrictions; whether the City will be painting curbs to designate the required 30 ft. setback from
intersections; authority of City Engineer pertaining to allowable or restricted parking pursuant to other
sections of City Code; parking distance concerns involving the 30 ft. setback and space limitations for
residents to park in front of their own property; pedestrian and driver safety concerns at intersections,
and ordina nce e nforcement.  Dur ing disc ussion, information was provided c oncerning pr ovisions
contained in a proposed substitute ordinance.  Upon inquiry, Nathan Beauheim, Assistant City Engineer,
stated it would be the City ’s intent to paint curbs delineating intersection 30 ft. setback a reas in the
Avenues due to the high volume of vehicles parking in the area during Frontier Days.  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Ms. Ash moved to amend by substitute ordinance (dated 9-18-12), seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, reviewed changes contained in the proposed substitute, stating
the principal change was language regarding the parking of RVs and trailers on the street directly in
front of or adjacent to the property owned or occupied by the owner of the RV or trailer, and confirmed
there were no changes proposed to existing City Code Section 10.52.030 involving the 10 ft. width of
roadway, as measured from the centerline pavement marking.  Mr. Schulte commented on the restricted
parking area if someone lives on a triangle near intersections with regard to the 30 ft. setback.  Motion
to amend by substitute failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body.  Ms. Broyles moved
to amend by substitute ordinance (dated 9-24-12), seconded by Ms. Ash.  Upon inquiry, Mr. White
advised the pr oposed substitute changes the de finition of rec reational vehicle to a mor e simplified
definition, taken from the American National Standards Institute, and would read as follows: “ ... any
vehicular-type unit that is primarily designed as a temporary living quarters for recreational, camping,
or seasonal use; has its own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle; and is
regulated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration as a vehicle or vehicle equipment.”
He stated other sections of the ordi nance were the same a s the substitute version recommended for
approval at the Sept. 18  Public Services Committee meeting.  Comments followed on safety concerns,th
particularly involving emergency vehicle response and accessible street width, and importance of the
“sight triangle”.  Mr. Pierson moved to amend the proposed substitute by adding the following sentence
at the end of Section 10.52.020, Prohibited in specified places, Subsection B. 4., seconded by Ms.
Broyles:  “Exception: driver’s personal private driveway.”.  Upon inquiry regarding the history of the
current City Code restriction that does not allow parking within 5 ft. of either side of a driveway, Brian
Kozak, Chief of Police, e xplained the distance provides safety to drivers’ who are backing out of a
driveway by having more vision of the area, and advised active enforcement of the provision is mostly
the result of complaints received from an affected property owner.  Motion to amend the substitute
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Discussion followed on the purpose of
the  ordinance as initially introduced relative to safety vs. aesthetic issues; re striction of only being
allowed to park in front of your own property; concern with curb painting of the 30 ft. intersection
distance only in the Avenues and not other locations in the City; City Engineer’s authority to restrict
parking areas under other provisions of City Code, and the ordinance providing an improvement to
address RV on-street parking concerns.  During discussion, Mr. Beauheim advised curb painting of the
30 ft . distance in the A venues is to assist with the amount of traf fic/parking in the r esidential
neighborhood during Frontier Days and other areas are not planned to be painted at this time due to the
lack of funding resources.  Motion to amend by substitute dated 9-24-12, as amended, carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Brown voting “no”.  Upon query,
Chief Kozak provided information on enforcement procedures involving different potential violation
scenarios, and clarified fines would be set through Municipal Court.  It was noted the ordinance, if
approved, will not be in effect until Feb. 1, 2013.  Main motion as amended by substitute, as amended,
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Brown and Mr.
Valdez voting “no”. (#3957) 
ORDINANCE - Vacating a Portion of the Right-of-Way of Bradley Avenue at the Intersection
of Bradley Avenue and East 14th Street.  Ms. Ash moved to approve on second reading, seconded by
Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map A mendment, Section 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Of ficial Z oning Ma p of the Unifie d Deve lopment C ode,
changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential Established District to
MUB Mixed-Use Bus iness Emphasis District for B lock 16, Park Addition, Chey enne, Wyoming
(located between Richardson and Cosgriff Courts and between Ames Court and Dey Avenue).  Ms. Ash
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry, Casey Palma, Steil
Surveying Services, agent for the  applicant, e xplained the zone change request is to enable g reater
flexibility of uses for the property and stated potentially the building may be subdivided for use as office
or educational spaces.  He commented that certain uses may require administrative approval and some
would be allowable under the MUB classification.  I n response to inquiry regarding concern with
protection of the neighborhood involving certain types of allowable business uses, Jim Flesher, Planning
Dept., a dvised c ertain u ses ma y in volve o ther r estrictions a nd a pprovals p ursuant t o th e U nified
Development Code, and Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, advised staff would provide additional
information prior to the next meeting, if the ordinance moves forward, on scenarios involving potential
types of uses that would be allowed vs. those requiring administrative or Board of Adjustment approval.
In response to inquiry regarding parking relative to development of town homes on the northern portion
of the site, Mr. Palma provided information on parking standards that would be met and referenced the
conceptual site plan and parking options being considered.  Comments followed in support of the “in-
fill” redevelopment project which will transform a vacant lot and building into a viable use, and that
proposed business use(s) should compliment the neighborhood.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all
members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Zoning  Map Amendme nt, Section 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Of ficial Z oning Ma p of the Unif ied Development Code,
changing the  Z oning Cla ssification f rom MUB M ixed-Use B usiness E mphasis Di strict to  CB
Community Busines s District for L ots 12-22, Bloc k 656, Orig inal City  (AKA  South C heyenne
Addition), Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at 504 Central Avenue).  Ms. Ash moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry, Jim Flesher, Planning Dept., provided information
on the zone change notification process to those in the area required by the Unified Development Code,
and clarified the property owner applied for the zone change and any communications involving use
of the property is between the property owner and owner of the current business on the site.  He further
advised a MUB zone does allow for a retail store but would not allow the same building design that is
being proposed due to the setback distance necessary due to the floodplain and confirmed, upon inquiry,
that the retail business proposed to be located on the site is a Family Dollar Store.  Brandon Cammarata,
Planning and Deve lopment Direc tor, explained the reque sted zone chang e is consistent with the
comprehensive plan; advised the area is located “at the tail end” of a MUB district and that surrounding
blocks have changed over time to single use  development, and noted a MUB  zone has a maximum
setback distance (generally 10 ft.).  Discussion followed on the  slope of the lot and setback distance
relative to the floodplain under a CB zone.  Dillon Tidwell, applicant representative, advised there are
issues involving location of the building on the site relative to the setback and floodplain, and it i s
intended to have the site design compatible with the area and have the building more visible by facing
Central Avenue.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Zoning  Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Of ficial Z oning Ma p of the Unifi ed Development Code,
changing the  Z oning Cla ssification f rom MU B Mixe d-Use B usiness E mphasis District to  CB
Community Business District for a Portion of Lot 2, Block 3, Plaza Del Range, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at 3308 Dell Range Boulevard).  Ms. Ash moved to approve on second reading, seconded by
Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry, Jim Flesher, Planning Dept., stated there are similar issues as discussed for
the previous ordinance on the agenda (i.e. setback distances; floodplain) regarding the business site
design p roposed f or the  pr operty a nd the  request t o r e-zone.  M otion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes”-- a ll
members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Creating Section 6.08.180  Feeding Geese and Ducks Prohibited, of Chapter
6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, of the Code of the City of
Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsors -- Ms. Ash and Mr. Collins).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to submit a Beneficiary Claim form
to the American Equity Investment Life Insurance Company of Des Moines, Iowa, for Death Benefits
under Life Insurance Contract #018336, insuring the life of Sharon F. Tuck, deceased.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5432)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the  Fisca l Year  2013 budg et of the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5433)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business Council,
Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for funding through the Business Committed
Grant Program for a Fuel Cell Data Plant -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the State Loan and Investment
Board for a Grant from the Transportation Enterprise Fund on behalf of the Governing Body of  the City
of Cheyenne/Cheyenne Transit Program, for the purpose of purchasing three 22 passenger replacement
busses -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).

[CA] Preliminary Plat for Chaplin Park Annex, a replat of Block 16, Park Addition, Cheyenne,
Wyoming ( located betwee n Richardson a nd Cosgr iff Courts and be tween A mes Court and De y
Avenue).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (acknowledge receipt).
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Community Resource Center of Johnson
County, to lease City-owned property located at 1900 East 18  Street.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)th
carried ($200.00/month - revenue to City). (#5909)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for City employee health
coverage.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5910)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and  Laramie County
School District No. 1 to provide services for students with disabilities for the 2012 - 2013 school year --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County
School District No. 1 for c ounseling ser vices for  school ref erred students -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee.
 
Professional Service s Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Ayres Associates, Inc. for engineering and bid documents for Lake Minnehaha in
Holliday Park, Remediation Phase I (2013 - 2014 State Land & Investment Board funding) -- referred
to Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown reported the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda
at the Sept. 17, 2012 Finance Committee meeting and provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.
Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $83,580.00, seconded by Mr. Spiker. Rick
Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, explained the reason for requesting review of the item under
other items for the agenda at Finance Committee involves a timing issue with the schedule originally
submitted for design engineering which would have taken them out of the winter months for dredging
of the lake , and stated dredging needs to be a ccomplished during the cooler winter weather. Upon
inquiry, he provided information on the anticipated depth of the lake (8-12 ft.) when the dredging is
completed, proposed solar or electric water recirculating system, and the three phases to the project,
noting they are working on partnerships to provide some lake shore enhancements.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5911)
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the
Town of Pine Bluffs, Wyoming, Police Department, for law enforcement extraterritorial assistance --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the City
of Laramie, Wyoming, Police Department, for law enforcement extraterritorial assistance -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services  Agreement betwe en the City  of Chey enne, Me tropolitan Planning
Organization, and Ayres Associates, Inc. to prepare the Dell Range Corridor Study (Federal MPO
funds, Federal Highway Safety Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-2-13 for two new 2012-2013 ten yard dump trucks with spreader and
snow plows for the Street and Alley Division (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax) - - referred t o Fi nance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-3-13 fo r f urnishing a nd ins talling miscellaneous Po lice Ve hicle
Equipment for the Cheyenne Police Department (State Land & Investment Board funding) -- referred
to Finance Committee.
Transfer of Ownership and Transfer of Location for a retail liquor license application filed with
the City Clerk's Office for Safeway Stores 46, Inc. d/b/a Safeway Store #2975, 305 Cole Shopping
Center, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by  Lambousis Revocable Trust, 112 W. 17 th
Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk, advised written notification had bee n
received by the applicant that the application is being withdrawn.  U pon inquiry with no objection
raised by members of City Council, Mayor Kaysen announced the item was being withdrawn from the
agenda at the request of the applicant.
Appointment of Dave Ohde to the Dow ntown Development Authority Board.  Mr. Pierson
moved to approve , seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion car ried.  Vot ing “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held October 8, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming for a tra nsfer of ownership for a
restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Judi’s Cajun Kitchen, LLC
d/b/a Judi’s Cajun Kitchen, 620 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Real
Mexican Food, Inc., 620 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Under other business:
Eric Miller questioned the outer diameter of the traffic circle proposed for the roundabout to
be constructed at the Pershing/Converse intersection pursuant to his inquiry of same at the Sept. 10th
City Council meeting .  Nathan B eauheim, Assist ant City  Eng ineer, offe red his apolog y for not
providing a re sponse since the last meeting and advise d he would fur nish Mr. Miller with the
information.  Mr. Miller submitted a handout depicting a picture of the Little Ferry (New Jersey) traffic
circle and expressed safety concerns for pedestrians crossing traffic/roundabout circles, commenting
on his belief that the Pershing/Converse intersection could be better controlled by traffic lights.  Mr.
Miller also questioned the City’s adoption of  the International safety codes and stated that the word
“international” to him means affiliation with the U.N. (i.e. United Nations).  Mayor Kaysen advised
that City representatives attend code conferences and provide recommendations on safety codes to be
used, and that the International codes are utilized by several municipalities across the country.
 
Barbie Harrington commented on the following topics: Downtown Development Authority’s
proposed plans to relocate their downtown office and remodeling costs; meaning of eminent domain
and the judicial process relative to the City’s responsibility; repayment to Cheyenne Light, Fuel and
Power (CLFP) customers due to recent awareness of the company’s accounting error involving billing
of the City’s franchise fee and use of taxpayers’ money, and recent street construction project near the
Pershing/Snyder intersection relative to project pre-notification to businesses in the vicinity, reduced
on-street parking  availability , and alleged substandar d asphalt plac ed by  the contra ctor.  B rad
Harrington posed a question to Mayor Kaysen regarding the timing of his knowledge of the CLF&P
franchise billing error.  Following verification of the content of the question, Mayor Kaysen stated he
did not have knowledg e of the  matter until a fe w days prior to an ar ticle being published in the
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle newspaper by way of a c ounty resident presenting it t o him in an email
format.  Upon inquiry  by a Council member r elative to the Per shing/Snyder street project, Nathan
Beauheim, Assistant City Engineer, advised that WYDOT administered the construction project and
provided information on WYDOT involvement regarding procedures for resolving any dispute with
the contractor that may involve faulty work and/or warranty provisions.  He noted the City, to date, has
not yet accepted the project as complete and the asphalt issue is being reviewed.
City Attorney Dan White requested the governing body meet in executive session to discuss
two litigation matters involving the City.  Mr. Collins moved to meet in executive session, seconded
by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Mayor Kaysen
announced members would meet in executive session in Council Chambers, not open to the public;
requested the City Attorney, City Clerk, and other staff as requested by the City Attorney, be present
at the executive session, and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result
of the executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the
close of the executive session.  (Clerk’s Note: Executive session convened at 8:15 p.m. following a
brief recess.)
There being no further business to come bef ore the governing body prior to the executive
session, the meeting was officially adjourned at 8:48 p.m. following closure of the executive session.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 4, 2012