MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-10-08 | CLIP_ID: 335 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 335

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 October 8, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne (arriving at 6:01 pm), Mr. Spiker
and Mr. Valdez.  Absent: Mr. Pierson.  Also present: Kristy Anderson, Deputy City Clerk; Lois Huff,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney. 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Collins moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 24, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve pa yment of vouche rs as pre sented, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Public Hearing for a transfer of ownership for a restaurant liquor license application filed with
the City Clerk's Office for Judi’s Cajun Kitchen, LLC d/b/a Judi’s Cajun Kitchen, 620 Central Avenue,
Cheyenne, Wy oming ( License c urrently h eld b y Re al M exican F ood, I nc., 6 20 Ce ntral A venue,
Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Kristy Anderson, Deputy City Clerk, stated wr itten notification had bee n
received by the applicant advising that the application is being withdrawn at this time and, therefore,
there is no longer a purpose to conduct the public hearing.  Upon inquiry with no objection raised by
members of City Council, Mayor Kaysen announced the public hearing was being cancelled.
ORDINANCE - Vacating a Portion of the Right-of-Way of Bradley Avenue at the Intersection
of Bradley Avenue and East 14th Street.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#3958)
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Zoning  Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Esta blished, and Section 5.1.3 Officia l Z oning Ma p of the Unifie d Deve lopment Code,
changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential Established District to
MUB Mix ed-Use Business Emphasis District for Bloc k 16, Park Addition, Chey enne, Wyoming
(located between Richardson and Cosgriff Courts and between Ames Court and Dey Avenue).  Ms. Ash
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Ms. Ash moved to amend by
substitute, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  It was noted the purpose for the substitute is to include standard
language indicating the zone change will not take effect until the final plat is approved.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present.  Comm ents followed
regarding concerns with approving spot zoning wherein most of the area surrounding the property is
zoned residential; support for the  zone chang e, and ty pes of use s for the c urrently vacant lot and
building that aren’t allowed under the current zone classification.  Motion, as amended, carried.  Voting
“yes”-- all members of the governing body present. (#3959)
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Of ficial Z oning Ma p of the Unified De velopment Code,
changing the  Z oning Cla ssification f rom MU B Mixe d-Use B usiness Emphasis Di strict to  CB
Community Business District f or L ots 12-22 , Block 656, Or iginal Cit y (AKA  South C heyenne
Addition), Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at 504 Central Avenue).  Ms. Ash moved to approve on third
and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes”-- all member s of the
governing body present. (#3960)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to S ection 2.2.1 Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Of ficial Z oning Ma p of the Unifie d De velopment Code,
changing the  Z oning Cla ssification f rom MU B Mixe d-Use Business Emphasis Di strict to  CB
Community Business District for a Portion of Lot 2, Block 3, Plaza Del Range, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at 3308 Dell Range Boulevard).  M s. Ash moved to a pprove on third and final reading,
seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body present.
(#3961)
ORDINANCE - Creating Section 6.08.180  Feeding Geese and Ducks Prohibited, of Chapter
6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, of the Code of the City of
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Shirley Stamm, spoke in opposition to the proposed ordinance noting concerns
with the proposed penalty provision for violations.  She provided a handout of pictures (on file with
City Clerk’s office) depicting a park in North Platte, NE that contains resident geese and commented
that officials there have placed swans in the park to assist with cutting down the geese population.  Ms.
Stamm voiced her suggestions on dealing with the number of geese in the community.  Marilee Manalo
also expressed her opposition t o the proposed or dinance; noted community benefits geese provide,
offered alternative suggestions to dealing with geese, and recommended additional research be done on
the topic prior to acting on the ordinance.  Jan Nelson-Schroll also stated her belief that more research
should be conducted on alternatives specific to parks, encouraged the park area be cleaned on a regular
basis, and spoke in opposition to the proposed $750 fine for violations.  Ms. Ash moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Ms. Ash moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Discussion followed on the proposed fine amount and jail time contained in the proposed
substitute, and having those provisions in place to “mainstream” all fines and fees within City Code.
Motion to amend failed.  Voting  “yes”-- Mr. Allen a nd Ms. Broyles.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Ash, Mr.
Brown, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Upon inquiry, Todd Feezer,
Assistant Director, Parks and Recreation Department, provided information on alternative methods to
control the geese population such as e gg addling, landscape changes, hazing, repellent and ca nine
control.  He explained that most geese problems take place in manicured areas of parks and advised they
are planning to chang e some of the  landscaping elements to make it less attrac tive for g eese.  He
advised r epellent h as b een u sed w ith li ttle n oticeable d ifference; h azing me thods a re e xpensive
alternatives, and that egg addling has been the most successful method previously used.  Mr. Feezer
stated that 80% of geese that are relocated will find their way back to their native park; that curtailing
the population is the goal, not harming the existing population, and that the first step is to quit feeding
the geese.  Discussion continued on alternative methods to controlling the geese population including
down sides to applying repellent and adding swans that can be aggressive and dangerous.  Upon inquiry,
Dan White, City Attorney, advised he was not aware if an ordinance such as the proposed one has to
have a fine attached to it.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present with the exception of Ms. Broyles and Mr. Valdez voting “no”.   Under other business, Ms.
Nelson-Schroll asked for  clarification on the purpose  of halting the feeding of g eese.  Mr. Fe ezer
explained that the program would be designed to control the future population of geese and the existing
number is tolerable if they would migrate when and where they should. Ms. Stamm suggested relocating
existing signage (re: Holliday Park), which states not to feed the ducks and geese, to a lower level where
it can be seen by more people.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business Council,
Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for funding through the Business Committed
Grant Program for a Fuel Cell Data Plant.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5434)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the State Loan and Investment
Board for a Grant from the Transportation Enterprise Fund on behalf of the Governing Body of  the City
of Cheyenne/Cheyenne Transit Program, for the purpose of purchasing three 22 passenger replacement
busses.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5435)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in support of
the Town of Albin’s projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the December
2012 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding in t he total amount of $115,000 -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Collins).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in support of
the Town of Pine Bluffs project to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the
December 2012 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding in the amount of $26,000 --referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Collins).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the  Fisca l Year  2013 budg et of the Cit y of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor
-- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Designating the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority (“DDA”) as
the local Main Street Organization for the implementation of the Wyoming Main Street Program;
authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to join with the DDA in the submission of a Wyoming Main
Street-Certified Track Application to the Wyoming Business Council; and designating the Executive
Director of the DDA as the Program Director for the Wyoming Main Street Program in the City of
Cheyenne -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and  Laramie County
School District No. 1 to provide services for students with disabilities for the 2012 - 2013 school year.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5913)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County
School District No. 1 for c ounseling s ervices for school referred students.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5914)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the
Town of Pine Bluffs, Wyoming, Police Department, for law enforcement extraterritorial.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5915)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the City
of Laramie, Wyoming, Police Department, for law enforcement extraterritorial assistance.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5916) 
[CA] Professional Service s Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Me tropolitan Planning
Organization, and Ayres Associates, Inc. to prepare the Dell Range Corridor Study (Federal MPO
funds, Federal Highway Safety Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5917)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Wyoming Department of Health,
Aging Division, to provide supportive services to persons 60 years or older (Title III-B Program Grant)
-- referred to Finance Committee.    
[CA] Contract betwe en the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Cheyenne
Capitals Youth Hockey Association, for 2012 - 2013 youth hockey season at the City owned Ice and
Events Center -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Ratification of existing Contract No. 5801 between the City of Cheyenne and Associated Legal
Group, LLC, to provide funding for additional legal services as needed for the acquisition of property
for the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Phase IV Project, as provided in Section 6.E. of said
contract -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5432 between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation
Division, and A-1 Organics for resources and services at the public Composting Facility -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5511 between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works
Department, and TriHydro Corporation for environmental monitoring at the Happy Jack Landfill --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-2-13 for two new 2012-2013 ten yard dump trucks with spreader and
snow plows for the Stre et and Alley  Divis ion (2011-2014 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (a ccept bid from Peterbilt of Wy oming, Cheyenne, WY; amount not to exceed
$426,174.00, includes trade-ins).
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-3-13 fo r f urnishing and  installing mis cellaneous Po lice Ve hicle
Equipment for the Cheyenne Police Department (State Land & Investment Board funding).  Motion
(per Consent Ag enda) carried (accept bid from L .A.W.S., Englewood, CO; amount not to exceed
$97,710.64).
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-4-13 for  a contr act between the City of Chey enne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corpor ation, Chey enne, Wy oming, f or the Ea st Pershing B oulevard
Reconstruction Phase IV Project (1% Sales Tax 2007-2010, State and Local Grants, Water and Sewer
Enterprise funds, Miscellaneous Federal Grants) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-6-13 for  a contr act be tween the  City  of Chey enne, Par ks and
Recreation Depa rtment, and Simon Contractors, I nc., Chey enne, Wy oming, f or the Chey enne
Greenway Walterscheid Underpass Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use  Tax, Miscellaneous
Federal Grants) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held October 22, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance of
annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land being situated in a
portion of the East Half of the East Half (E½E½) of Section 20, Township 14 North, Range 66 West
of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located approximately 150 feet west of the intersection
of Converse Avenue and Ogden Road).
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 6:56 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Kristy B. Anderson, CMC
 Deputy City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 18, 2012