MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-10-22 | CLIP_ID: 337 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 337

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 October 22, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  Members of Boy Scout Troop 116 led the recitation of the pledge
of allegiance.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)   Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Allen and Mr. Collins agenda item #21(b) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Collins
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 8, 2012.  M otion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Amer i-Tech HVAC Service s and Radio Station KYOY F M respectively) and va cated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Pierson moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by
Mr. Spiker.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez returned to Council
Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing  to determine w hether compliance of anne xation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of
the East Half of the East Half (E½E½) of Section 20, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th
P.M., L aramie County , Wy oming ( located a pproximately 150 fee t west of the inter section of
Converse Avenue and Ogden Road).  Jim Flesher, Urban Planning Office, reviewed requirements and
compliance of conditions contained in Wy o. Stat. §15-1-402, including spe cific infor mation
indicating compliance with Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 (a)(i) through (vi).  Ed Murray, Murray Properties,
adjacent l and owner and c oncerned c itizen a dvised h e ha d n o p roblem w ith the  a nnexation in
principle or the requirements of state statute for compliance, however, he did have concerns with the
proposed road configuration depicted in Exhibit D, Road Network for Section 20, submitted with the
annexation documents.  He state d the proposed configuration contemplates significant deviations
from the master transportation plan and is not in compliance with the long range transportation plans
as outlined in the Unified Development Code (UDC) under Section 4.3.2 (City Clerk’s note: copies
of the UDC section were submitted by Mr. Murray and is on file with the City Clerk’s Office).  Mr.
Murray expressed his concerns with the road configuration and questioned the timing of the submittal
of the transportation network plan, commenting on his belief it should be submitted as part of the
preliminary and/or final plat documents and not with the annexation paperwork.  Kim Rindlisbacher,
Scenic Development, Inc., provided brief comments on the project Scenic is planning on developing
on the property, if annexed.  He advised the project proposed is an upscale apartment community and
stated the project will provide an amenity for the community, noting their development area will be
conducive to the street plans outlined in PlanCheyenne.  Comments followed with regard to having
a ma ster plan for development growth, including roads, of the area in place for review prior to
approval of the annexation request.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE - Creating Section 6.08.180  Feeding Geese and Ducks Prohibited, of Chapter
6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, of the Code of the City
of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mr. Pierson and Mr. Valdez voting “no”. (#3962)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in support
of the Town of  Albin’s projec ts to be submitt ed to the State L oan and I nvestment Board for the
December 2012 County wide Consensus Bloc k Gra nt funding  in the total amount of $115,000.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5436)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in support
of the Town of Pine Bluffs project to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the
December 2012 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding in the amount of $26,000.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5437) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2013 budg et of the City  of C heyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5438)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Designating the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority (“DDA”) as
the local Main Street Organization for the implementation of the Wyoming Main Street Program;
authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to join with the DDA in the submission of a Wyoming Main
Street-Certified Track Application to the Wyoming Business Council; and designating the Executive
Director of the DDA as the Program Director for the Wyoming Main Street Program in the City of
Cheyenne.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5439)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to enter into an agreement to purchase
537 square feet of land l ocated at the southeast corner of the interse ction of East 19th Street a nd
Converse Avenue, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor
-- Mr. Brown).  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown advised the item had been discussed
under other items for the agenda at Finance Committee and provisions of Title 2 of City Code had
been met.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City
Attorney, advised the agreement is the result of discussions with the Cole family and would provide
the City  with acquisition of land to be af filiated with the City ’s rounda bout project
(Converse/Pershing/19th  intersection).  He noted it is desired that the transaction proceed at this time
as the Cole family will be closing on their property sale soon involving the Safeway Store site.  Eric
Miller ques tioned the size of the proposed roundabout, noting he had received an email per his
previous request but would like a response “on the record.”  Mayor Kaysen read a portion of the email
that was sent to Mr. Mi ller from Nathan Beauheim, Assistant City  Engineer, that stated “ ... the
outside diameter of the proposed roundabout is about 230 feet, though this varies a little bit as the
roundabout isn’t a pe rfect circ le...”.  Upon f urther inquiry, Mr. W hite stated the la nd is being
purchased from the Cole Corporation, and Mayor Kaysen and Frank Cole noted that a property
appraisal was done with the land valued at $5,350.00 and that the agreed upon amount for purchase
of the land is $5,000.00.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5440)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on
the Town of Burns substitution project to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for
the 2011-2012 Count ywide Consensus B lock Gra nt funding  -- r eferred to Financ e Committ ee
(sponsor -- Mr. Collins).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land an d W ater
Conservation Fund Grant for the Ma rtin Luther King, Jr. Park Quickstart Tennis Court Project --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Valdez).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to approve and accept the FY2012 Grants
to encourage arrest policies and enforcement of Protection Orders Program from the U.S. Department
of Justice Office on Violence Against Women in the amount of $300,000.00 (Award No. 2012-WE-
AX-0058) -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Determining conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402
exist for a pa rcel of land being  situated in a portion of the Ea st Half of the  East Half (E½E½) of
Section 20, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located
approximately 150 feet west of the intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden Road) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Ash).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Gover ning Body of the City of Chey enne to a dopt the
revised statement of investment policy -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Collins and
Mr. Brown).
[CA] Contract between the City  of Chey enne, Transit Division, and Wy oming Department of
Health, Aging Division, to provide supportive service s to persons 60 y ears or older ( Title III-B
Program Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5919)    
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Cheyenne
Capitals Youth Hockey Association, for 2012 - 2013 youth hockey season at the City owned Ice and
Events Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5920) 
Ratification of e xisting Contract No. 5801 betwee n the City of C heyenne and A ssociated
Legal Group, LLC, to provide funding for additional legal services as needed for the acquisition of
property for the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Phase IV Project, as provided in Section 6.E.
of said contr act.  Mr. B rown reported the re was no recommendation on the item from F inance
Committee.  Mr. Brown  moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City
Attorney, explained, pursuant to initiation of the City’s eminent domain action, the existing contract
provides for outside legal counsel who has extensive knowledge and experience in the area of eminent
domain.  He stated there is a clause in the agreement requiring governing body approval if the amount
for services exceeded $35,000.00.  Mr. White advised they  are continuing negotiations with t he
owners of the Hollywood Video property site and need to continue with the legal services being
provided due to an upcoming hearing and conclusion of the matter, which will exceed the $35,000.00
amount.  Comm ents followed in support of c ontinuing with the outside leg al services, as well as
comment in opposition to taking property generally.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Ash, Mr.
Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Dr.  Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr.  Allen, Mr .
Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez. (#5801) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and RBC Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc. to
provide investment advisory  services (Solid W aste, 2007-2010, 2011- 2014 1% Sales Ta x & 1%
Specific Purpose Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5432 between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation
Division, and A-1 Organics for resources and services at the public Composting Facility.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5432)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to  Contract No. 5511 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and TriHy dro Corporation for environmental monitoring a t the Happy  Jack
Landfill.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $209,220.00). (#5511)
[CA] Second Amendment to Contract #4966 between the City of Cheyenne and Saddle Ridge, LLC,
pertaining to Saddle Ridge  Subdivis ion gr eenway sy stem improvements -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-4-13 for  a contr act between the City of Chey enne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corpor ation, Chey enne, Wy oming, f or t he Ea st Pershing B oulevard
Reconstruction Phase IV Project (1% Sales Tax 2007-2010, State and Local Grants, Water and Sewer
Enterprise funds, Miscellaneous Federal Grants).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $3,651,937.00). (#5921)
Consideration of B id #M-6-13 for  a contr act be tween the  City  of Chey enne, Par ks and
Recreation Depa rtment, and Simon Cont ractors, I nc., Chey enne, Wy oming, f or the Chey enne
Greenway Walterscheid Underpass Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use  Tax, Miscellaneous
Federal Grants).  Mr. Brown moved to a ccept the bid in an amount not to ex ceed $785,662.50,
seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Comments followed regarding work previously provided by the contractor
and level of confidence involving “a good product” being received for this project.  Doug Vetter, City
Engineer, explained the bid was the lowest, qualified responsive bidder and provided information on
the Pershing/Snyder project involving the contractor, WYDOT and the City, noting the project is still
unfinished as punch  list items have to be  corrected prior to finalizing the pr oject.  He  advised
WYDOT and the contractor have reached an agreement with regard to some corrections.  Discussion
included the following topics: Previous project concerns relative to quality of services provided by
the contractor; compaction problems; quality of road construction and life of streets; aggregate and
concrete products and proble ms (i.e. alk ali silica reactivity a/k/a ASR); City  specifications and
requirements, and on-site inspections during street projects.  During discussion Mr. Vetter provided
information on compaction problems that need to be watched during paving projects; Engineering
Department’s approach of providing provisions for mix designs to best suit project needs; nature of
the underpass project that did not require special provisions being specified; regional problems with
ASR involving aggregate, and concrete mix elements.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown,
Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” --  Mr. Allen, Ms.
Ash, Mr. Collins and Dr. Rinne.  Mayor Kaysen requested inspectors monitor the job closely due to
concerns raised during discussion. (#5922)
Authorization to purchase Utility Rocket 5GHZ quadband communication equipment in the
amount of $167,999.72 fr om CDW - G for  th e Cheyenne Police De partment (SLIB Funding) --
referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown advised the item was discussed under other items for the
agenda at Finance Committee and provisions of Title 2 had been met.  Mr. Brown moved to approve
the purchase from CDW-G of Vernon Hills, IL in an amount not to exceed $167,999.72, seconded
by Mr. Valdez. Captain Mitch Maxwell, Cheyenne Police Department, advised they had recently
received information that a similar product may exist and requested a 2 week postponement to allow
for further evaluation.  Upon inqui ry, Captain Maxwell ex plained the c ommunication equipment
consists of  a box that goes in the trunk of the vehicle and connects to and interfaces with the in-
vehicle computer and camera system, which allows officers to run drivers licenses, etc. in the field.
He explained it will increase the download speed for video transference, boost the cell signal, help
eliminate communication dead zones, and has GPS tracking capability.  Victor Sicone, Buffalo Ridge,
questioned how many “spares” would be provided and how long the equipment would last bef ore
becoming obsolete and has to be replaced.  Mr. Maxwell advised they have allocated funding to equip
all patrol vehicles and spare vehicles and that the average life of the utility rockets is 5-7 years.  Mr.
Brown moved to postpone to Nov. 13, 2012, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Concern was expressed that
Finance Committee members were requested to review the item under other items for the agenda due
to t imeliness i ssues in volving ins tallation o f v ehicle e quipment, a nd sta ff’s resulting request t o
postponement.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
Authorization to purchase a used Ice Surface Groomer, 2004 Olympian Model 2000, in the
amount of $55,000.00 from Big Hill Services Ltd., Cochrane, AB, Canada, for the City owned  Ice
and Events Center -- referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. B rown advised the item was discusse d
under other items for the agenda at Finance Committee and provisions of Title 2 had been met.  Mr.
Brown moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $55,000.00, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Rick
Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, provided information on recent equipment problems with the
current 1996 ice groomer; problems in acquiring a temporary unit; need for a backup unit to fulfill
contractual obligations to users of the Ice and Events Center for hockey activities; number of daily
times the ice is g roomed; other  ice centers having  2 to 3 gr oomers, cost of a  new g roomer
($100,000.00) and advised purchase of the 2004 model would include a 2 year warranty.  He stated,
if approved, the new unit could be received prior to the next governing body meeting, noting he may
request a counter check be issued due to timing of the delivery, and indicated the current ice groomer
will be kept operational as a backup with regular inspections.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 13, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a  transfer of ownership for
a re tail liquor license applicat ion filed with the City  Clerk' s Offic e for  L os Abuelos Mexican
Restaurant, LLC d/b/a Los Abuelos Mexican Restaurant, 1601 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
(License currently held by One East Sixteenth LLC, 1601 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming). 
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Robert Mathia and Melissa Leger to the
Downtown Development Authority Board to be confirmed November 13, 2012.
Announcement was made that due to the Veterans Day Holiday on Monday, November 12,
2012, the regularly scheduled meeting of the Governing Body will instead be held on Tuesday,
November 13, 2012 beginning at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, Municipal B uilding, 2101
O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.      
Under other business:
 
Barbie H arrington e xpressed c oncerns r egarding th e q uality o f w ork d one b y Simon
Contractors and a recent street project (Pershing/Snyder Ave. area).  She also questioned the source
of funding for the office relocation of the Downtown Development Authority (DDA) and whether the
money the  DD A i s u sing fo r c osts i nvolving th e move might b e un constitutional pu rsuant t o
provisions of the Wyoming Constitution.  Mayor Kaysen advised the funding for the DDA move is
a loan through a joint powers board and not directly from the City.  It was noted that the joint powers
board involved was scheduled to meet the next day (Oct. 23 ) at 7:00 a.m. at the Align Building offrd
of Airport Parkway. 
Eric Miller commented on the quality of concrete pours for the Pershing/Snyder project, as
previously referenced by Ms. Harrington, and suggested core tests be done with inspections for these
types of projects.
Brad Harrington advised he had done research on the United Nation’s Agenda 21 document
and the City’s Unified Development Code (UDC) and had information regarding this that he would
like to present to the governing body, noting it would take him some time to review general Agenda
21 information as well as facts and details.  Upon inquiry, he explained the purpose of providing the
information is to demonstrate that codes of the City are connected with Agenda 21.  Mayor Kaysen
suggested Mr. H arrington distribute the infor mation packets he had pre pared to members of the
governing body to give them an opportunity  to review the research.  Mayor Kaysen stated if Mr .
Harrington so desired he  would make himsel f available for f urther discussion on the topic.  Mr.
Harrington submitted copies of the information packets (titled “On Agenda 21: The United Nations’
Blueprint for Collectivization and Enslavement, And on How  It’s Being Implemented on a Local
Level Right Here in Cheyenne, Wyoming”) to governing body members (document on file with City
Clerk’s Office).  Comment was  made that perhaps the topic could be r eviewed at a public wor k
session.  Mayor Kaysen noted that the UDC is undergoing its first annual review for presentation to
the governing body for any changes and, as part of the review process, there will be the opportunity
for public involvement.
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 7:17 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 30, 2012