MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-11-13 | CLIP_ID: 340 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 340

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 November 13, 2012
Due to the V eterans Day holiday, the Gover ning Body of the City  of Chey enne instead
convened in regular session on this date beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:
MAYOR  -  Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS - M r. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms.
Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. P ierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker a nd Mr. Valde z.  Also present: Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney. 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)   Upon request by Ms. Broyles, and pursuant to support received
by Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash, agenda item #10 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Collins
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 22, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on October 31, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Brown.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
  
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to rec eive comments and input for a tra nsfer of
ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Los Abuelos
Mexican Restaurant, LLC d/b/a Los Abuelos Mexican Restaurant, 1601 Central Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (License currently held by One East Sixteenth, LLC, 1601 Central Avenue , Cheyenne,
Wyoming).  Upon inquiry , Imelda Onate with L os Abuelos advised they  are hoping to ope n the
restaurant on Dec . 31.  Upon furthe r inquiry , Carol I ntlekofer, Cit y Clerk, ve rified a  previous
extension approved by  the g overning body  of t he time frame condition place d on the license ,
pertaining to a lease agreement with a restaurant establishment to operate within the building, had
been met.  There being no further comments and purpose  of the he aring having been met, Mayor
Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the item to Finance Committee.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on
the Town of Burns substitution project to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for
the 2011-2012 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5441)
RESOLUTION -  Su pporting th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne’s a pplication f or a  L and a nd Wa ter
Conservation Fund Grant for the Martin Luther King, Jr. Park Quickstart Tennis Court Project.  Mr.
Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Upon inquiry, Todd Feezer, Assistant Director,
Parks and Rec reation Depar tment, provided an upda te o n the project stating  the ar ea ha s been
rehabilitated with demolition of the old courts; that new irrigation and sod have been installed, with
trees to be planted in the spring, and reviewed grant funding that has been received as well as other
anticipated funding.  He advised they hope to complete construction in the spring and noted the tennis
courts would be located on the west side of the park.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all members
of the governing body. (#5442)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to approve and accept the FY2012 Grants
to encourage arrest policies and enforcement of Protection Orders Program from the U.S. Department
of Justice Office on Violence Against Women in the amount of $300,000.00 (Award No. 2012-WE-
AX-0058).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5443)
RESOLUTION - Determining conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402
exist for a parc el of land being situated in a portion of the Ea st Half of the  East Half (E½E½) of
Section 20, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located
approximately 150 feet west of the intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden Road).  Ed Murray,
speaking on behalf of Murray Properties, property owner in the vicinity, referenced comments of
concern he had voiced at the Oct. 22 City Council meeting, and submitted and discussed 3 hand-outs
(on file with City Clerk’s office) depicting property involving the proposed annexed area and near
vicinity (1. Enlargement of PlanCheyenne Land Use Map; 2.  Map of area including parcel owned
by Murray Properties; 3. Exhibit D (map) as submitted with the Petition for Annexation).  Mr. Murray
expressed concerns with inconsistencies in the road network proposed in the maps submitted with the
Petition for Annexation relative to the land use map adopted with PlanCheyenne, and explained that
the proposed road network submitted with the annexation request would de prive his company of
being able to utilize their property for future use as identified in PlanCheyenne and pursuant to zoning
classification.  He indicated an orderly and coordinated transportation plan must be fac ilitated as
contemplated in PlanCheyenne, and in conjunction with easements acquired during the Storey Blvd.
extension project and including collector/connecting streets to allow access.  He further commented
that the issue involving the road network plan, as proposed as part of the annexation packet, should
be a ddressed th rough th e pla tting process and no t be  c onsidered a s a n a pproved r oad p lan in
conjunction with determining that annexation conditions had been met.  Frank Cole, property owner
of the pa rcel proposed for  annexation as well as land in the vicinity , referenced and discussed a
written agreement of record the Cole family has with the City that laid out accesses off Storey and
Converse and water “stub-outs”, and stated that, officially, the PlanCheyenne map has no bearing.
Reporting fo r P ublic Services Co mmittee, M s. As h mo ved to  a dopt, se conded b y Ms.  Broyles.
Comment was made concerning discussion on the resolution at the last Public Services Committee
meeting relative to communication between the property owner, developer, staff and those currently
working on an update  to the PlanChey enne do cument.  Upon inquiry  regarding the proc ess for
updating the Master  Transpor tation Plan, Matt Ashby , Planning Ser vices Dire ctor, a dvised an
amendment to the tra nsportation plan would involve a public he aring befor e the Planning
Commission and require a resolution adopted by the governing body, noting public input is allowed
throughout the process.  Upon further inquiry, Mr. Ashby stated that, at this point, Exhibit D is just
a “figure” submitted with the Petition for Annexation and that during the platting process discussions
would be held regarding the road network plan.  Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for Scenic Development,
Inc. who is planning a development project on the proposed annexed parcel, advised they are trying
to ensure they conduct the right traffic study to accompany the platting process relative to a collector
vs. local road, and expressed they feel they can separate the long range master plan from the proposed
development action.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Emmons stated that depictions in Exhibit D matches existing
curb cuts and stub-outs, and commented that Exhibit D labels the road in question as E. Carlson Street
but that st reet name is f or reference only and not necessarily the final street name.  Comme nts
followed regarding request for postponement of the item, as previously received by AVI, which would
have allowed time for further information to be acquired vs. adoption of the resolution; frustration
and concerns with incr emental annexations/additions relative to the road network system; recent
detention pond construction near East Carlson Street and land in the area being located in the county
and not within city  limits, and ar ea street network addressing future growth for the community’s
health, safety and welfare.  Mr. Emmons explained the purpose of the request to postpone was to
provide for the annexation ordinance to coincide with timing of re-zoning and preliminary and final
plat processes, and advised of the options available regarding postponement of the resolution vs.
delaying  the introduction of the annexation ordinance.  He verified preference for adoption of the
resolution at the pre sent meeting ; stated timing is critica l f or Scenic De velopment, re garding
resolution approval, to enable them to move forward with project financing, and noted delaying
ordinance introduction would provide time to work on the road network issue.  Mr. Cole provided
a brief history on certain road alignments and configurations in the area, including accesses on Storey
and Con verse a nd distance be tween a ccess p oints, a nd c ommented o n to pography pr oblems,
infrastructure, Cole family working with the City for numerous years on many developments, and the
recent detention area.  Discussion topics included: Location of the detention area (within Section 21);
road network system and effect on future area development as well as Murray Properties parcel;
whether adoption of the resolution legally mandates approval of the future annexation ordinance that
will be sub mitted, and effect of any changes in conditions that may occur following resolution
adoption.  Upon inquiry regarding whether adoption of the resolution compels a favorable vote on
the ensuing annexation ordinance, Dan White, City Attorney, stated that pursuant to comments that
have been made a situation is developing whereby he needs to advise the governing body that he may
have a conflict of interest (family related) involving a concerned party to the discussions and that the
question should be refer red to another staff a ttorney or outside counse l, and indicated he  was
declining to render any legal advice on the question posed at this time.  Upon a hypothetically phrased
general question with regard to whether the governing body adopts a resolution determining that an
area meets all six conditions for annexation, is the governing body then compelled to vote for the
related annexation ordinance, Mayor Kaysen requested Mr. White reply to the inquiry on a process
basis only.  Mr. White advised it would be helpful to conduct legal research on the topic, and stated
his initial impression is if the governing body adopts a resolution that finds that the Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-
402(a) annexation criteria have been met, the governing body could not later make a different finding
in the absence of a significant change of circumstances that would provide a substantive basis for the
change.  Comments followed and included: State statute wording regarding action on anne xation
ordinances; past actions on annexation ordinances following resolution adoptions determining that
conditions had been met; further legal review, and reason for postponing action at some point in the
annexation process to coincide with re-zoning and platting.  Mr. Allen moved to amend, seconded
by Mr. Collins, by adding the following language within the proposed resolution:  “The approval of
this resolution is not intended to and shall not be construed as modifying any of the components of
the Cheyenne Area Master Transportation Plan contained within PlanCheyenne, adopted in November
2006”.   M r. Cole spoke in o pposition to t he amendment, commenting that if the amendment is
approved the same wording should be included in other future annexation related resolutions.  Mr.
Murray spoke in support of the amendment, commenting that any transportation network plan should
comply with long range transportation plans adopted by the City and that the area is a very important
part of the  community and its g rowth.  Discussion followed on the per centage of the  area being
discussed vs. percentage of the proposed annexation property; use of land by property owners relative
to City and County boundaries; support for planning efforts, and whether resolution adoption would
be a commitment to the road plan depicted in Exhibit D.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Ashby expressed his
belief that definitive action on a road plan takes place during the platting process and that the master
(transportation) pla n is  int ended to  pr ovide fo r h aving a  ro ad n etwork in  pla ce a nd se rves a s a
guideline for open discussion to meet transportation needs.  Mr. Murray commented that the
amendment would pr ovide a history  to those new membe rs of the g overning body who will be
addressing the annexation or dinance next y ear.  Further comments included the topics of ro ad
network configuration; property owners’ competing interests, and potential changes to PlanCheyenne
due to the current review being conducted.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr.
Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “ no” -- Ms.
Ash, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Spiker.  Discussion on the main motion, as amended, followed and included
the following topics:  Condit ions/criteria being met for annexation vs. Exhibit D as a stree t issue,
overall area development for best interests of the community, and school district student capacity and
communication with the school district with regard to the development (apartment complex) planned
for t he parcel proposed to be  annexed.  Mr. Collins noted, for the re cord, that he hoped if the
governing body changes its mind in the future (City Clerk note: Regarding resolution adoption and
future annexation ordinance action) that it will not be considered to be arbitrary or capricious as the
discussion record reflects governing body’s concerns about the roads in the area and that an update
to the Master Transportation Plan may be made to r eflect area arterial and collector roads.  A lso
during discussion, Mr. Emmons again reviewed  postponement options to align with the platting time
frame, advising the goal is to start development proje ct construction next spring.  Main motion as
amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne
voting “no”. (#5444)  Following announcement of the vote, Mayor Kaysen requested all interested
parties continue to look at the road networking, safety and topography issues to resolve.
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Gover ning Body of the City  of Chey enne to a dopt the
revised statement of investment policy.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5445)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to execute: a State Small Business
Credit Initiative (“SSBCI”) Allocation Agreement with the United States Department of Treasury;
a Cooperative Agreement among seventeen Wyoming Municipalities to provide for the administration
of SSBCI funding in accordance with Federal requirements; and a Service Agreement under which
Wyoming Smart Ca pital N etwork, LLC, w ill a ssist i n im plementation a nd ov ersight o f S SBCI
Program Funding -- referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown advised the item was reviewed under
other items for the agenda at the Nov. 5  Finance Committee meeting and provisions of Title 2, Cityth
Code, had be en met.  Mr. B rown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valde z.  Upon inquiry , Dan
White, City Attorney, advised City Council had previously reviewed 3 agreements affiliated with the
resolution and since the form of some of the a greements had changed he felt the governing body
should review again for approval.  He further clarified the changes strengthen provisions in favor of
the participating municipalities.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#5446)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Chaplin
Park Annex, a replat of Lots 1-6 and the 16-foot vacated alley, Block 16, Park Addition, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located between Richardson and Cosgriff Courts, and between Dey Avenue and Ames
Court) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2013 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to  Finance Commit tee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Directing the Solid Waste Division to provide curbside collection services
for automated containers for all residential addresses in the city, except for certain addresses where
curbside collection is not feasible -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with
the Microsoft Corporation, Lot 3, Block 6, North Range Business P ark, Third Fi ling,  L aramie
County, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and RBC Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc. to
provide investment advisory services (Solid W aste, 2007-2010, 2011- 2014 1% Sales Ta x & 1%
Specific Purpose Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5925)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Stride Learning Center for
use of a 2006 Chevrolet El Dora do bus for ser vices for  Stride clients -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee. 
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Ch eyenne, Parks &  Recre ation
Department, and AVI, PC for design and engineering services on Polk Avenue greenway segment
(1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax & Wyoming Business Council Community Enhancement
grant) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Second Amendment to Contract #4966 between the City of Cheyenne and Saddle Ridge, LLC,
pertaining to Saddle Ridge  Subdivis ion gr eenway sy stem improvements. Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#4966)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-3-13 for  a contr act be tween the  City  of Chey enne, Par ks and
Recreation  Department, and S & S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Pioneer Park Parking
Lot Improvement Project (Parks Facilities funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Appointments of Robert Mathia and Melissa Leger to the Downtown Development Authority
Board. Mr. B rown moved to a pprove, seconded b y Mr. Collins.  Upon inqui ry, Mayor Kaysen
clarified the appointments are to fulfill terms for individuals who were not able to complete their
appointed term, and explained the appointment process that involves review and recommendation of
proposed appointees by the Downtown Development Authority Board.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
--   all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash and Dr. Rinne voting “no” and
Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
[CA] Authorization to purchase Utility Rocket 5GHZ quadband communication equipment in the
amount of $167,999.72 from CDW- G for the Cheyenne Police Department (SLIB Funding).  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $167,999.72).  
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delgate for the City of Cheyenne at
the 2013 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Winter Workshop Business Meeting -- referred to
Finance Committee.
Announcement w as ma de of  the  a ppointment o f C arla Th urin to the Laramie Cou nty
Community  Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board to be confirmed November 26, 2012.
Under other City business:
Brad Harrington commented on discussion held previously during the meeting regarding the
Resolution for conditions for annexation and stated he feels the entire planning process should be
reviewed.  He also expressed his belief that the City-owned area of the “downtown hole” should
either be sold or given away to those owning the other 2/3rds portion.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 7:29 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 November 24, 2012