MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-11-26 | CLIP_ID: 343 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 343

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 November 26, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Kristy Anderson, Deputy City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney. 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.  Mr. Collins moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 13, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Spiker moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to
Council Chambers.
  
ORDINANCE - Granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to Cheyenne Light, Fuel and
Power Company, its successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute electricity to the
City and to all persons, businesses, and industry within a portion of the City in Cheyenne Light, Fuel
and Power  Company’s Certificated Ter ritory and the r ight to ac quire, c onstruct, install, locate,
maintain, operate and extend into, within and through said City all facilities reasonably necessary to
furnish, sell and distribute electricity within the City and the right to make reasonable use of all streets
and other public places and public easements as herein defined as may be necessary; and fixing the
terms and conditions thereof -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
ORDINANCE - Granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to High West Energy, Inc., its
successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute electricity to the City and to all persons,
businesses, and industry within a portion of the City in High West’s Certificated Territory and the
right to acquire, construct, install, locate, maintain, operate and extend into, within and through said
City all facilities reasonably necessary to furnish, sell and distribute electricity within the City and the
right to make reasonable use of all streets and other public places and public easements as herein
defined as may be necessary; and fixing the terms and conditions thereof -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown). 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established and Section 5.1.3 Of ficial Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential -
Established District to MUB Mixed Use with Business Emphasis District for Lots 30 and 31, Block
1, Eastridge, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of East Pershing
Boulevard and Converse Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen,
Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker, Mr. Valdez and
Mayor Kaysen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Chaplin
Park Annex, a replat of Lots 1-6 and the 16-foot vacated alley, Block 16, Park Addition, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located between Richardson and Cosgriff Courts, and between Dey Avenue and Ames
Court).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5447)
[CA] RESOLUTION - R e-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2013 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5448)
 RESOLUTION - Directing the Solid Waste Division to provide curbside collection services
for automated containers for all residential addresses in the city, except for certain addresses where
curbside collection is not feasible.  Speaking in opposition to the proposed resolution were:  Matthew
Potter, Frank Cole, Mike Luna, Trish Becklinger, Randy Byers, Paula Gordinier, John Rogers, Mike
Hand (submitted petition - on file with City Clerk’s office), Dennis Auker, Kenneth Barrow, Brad
Emmons (submitted photos - on file with City Clerk’s office), Don Erickson and Jan Nelson-Schroll.
The following conce rns wer e ra ised:  hardship on re sidents involving lack of  acc ess to move
containers from bac k to front of re sidence; lack of stora ge areas in fr ont of reside nces; need for
implementation of rules re garding placement of garbage cans; refuse debris due to wind;  nar row
street widths in some areas and sanitation truck operators maneuvering around parked cars and motor
homes, and traffic congestion; addressing pick-up concerns relative to overgrown trees in alley ways
obstructing pathways of trucks; home owners responsibility for trimming trees in alleys; definition
of “feasibility” in relationship to exemptions; containers left in the street if resident is out of town;
containers in streets detra cting from community  bea utification; z oning a nd UDC (Unifie d
Development Code) re quirements which ma y conflict with the re solution, and issues with heavy
traffic and highly dense areas involving parked cars on streets.  Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works
Director, advised the Solid Waste Director is still reviewing properties eligible for exemptions so the
list is not all inclusive at this time.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash stated there
was no recommendation on the item from the committee.  Ms. Ash moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.
Pierson.  Discussion foll owed on the list of exempted properties, stre ets that should be on the
exempted list, and concerns with the impact on traffic patterns on busy streets such as Dell Range and
Pershing.  Upon inquiry, Dennis Pino, Director of Solid Waste, reviewed houses located on Dell
Range and Pershing Blvd. and advised they are still reviewing areas for exemptions, noting there will
still be some areas that will continue to have alley pick-ups.  In response to query on what benefits
the resolution will provide, Mr. Elias noted there would be an estimated 25% savings in fuel, future
equipment would be significantly less expensive as they could purchase single-arm vehicles instead
of dual-arm vehicles, alley maintenance would decrease, route efficiency would be realized, and a
decrease in insurance costs would be anticipated as trucks won’t have to maneuver in alleys, which
is where the majority of sanitation-related accidents occur.  Mr. Elias further added the department
is looking at getting GPS software packages for the trucks, which will assist with providing better
pick-up routes.  Mr. Pino explained incidents resulting in damages occur fairly regularly involving
alley trees and tree  branches.  He  explained depar tment efforts involving container pick-ups for
elderly or handicapped residents, who will remain exempted under the resolution.  Further discussion
continued on issues with Sanitation t rucks driving down alleys, including the cost inefficiency of
trucks running  both alley  and stree t routes, and the ne cessity to identify  additional  areas for
exemption.  Upon inquiry regarding a procedural question, Dan White, City Attorney, advised the
motion on the floor to adopt the resolution is now the “property” of the governing body and can only
be withdrawn with unanimous approval of the council.  Mr. Brown moved to call for the question (to
limit debate), seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mr. White clarified the motion was not debatable.  Motion
to call for the question to cease debate carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
with the exception of Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Main motion to adopt
failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Ash voting “yes”.
Under other City business, it was suggested Public Works/Sanitation staff bring the resolution back
to the governing body after compiling a complete list of all exempt properties.
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with
the Microsoft Corporation, Lot 3, Block 6, North Range Business Park, Third Filing, Laramie County,
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5449)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the City  Trea surer to discharg e uncollec tible debts in the
amount of $247,178.18, pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502 -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Stride Learning Center for
use of a 2006 Chevrolet El Dorado bus for services for Stride clients.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5926)
[CA] Professional Service s Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks & Rec reation
Department, and AVI, PC for design and engineering services on Polk Avenue greenway segment
(1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax & Wyoming Business Council Community Enhancement
grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $72,440.00). (#5927)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department, and KONE, Inc.  for
maintenance service on various elevators in City buildings -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Community Based Family Support and Preser vation Grant Contract betwe en the City  of
Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and the Wyoming Department of Family Services, Protection Services
Division, to provide in-home support and mentoring services to under-served families and strengthen
the ability of parents to provide care for their children -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department,
and Solid W aste Pro fessionals of Wy oming, for Happy Jack Landfill Expansion and closure of
existing cells (Solid Waste Management fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-3-13 for  a contr act be tween the  City  of Chey enne, Par ks and
Recreation  Department, and S & S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Pioneer Park Parking
Lot Improvement Project (Parks Facilities funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $448,833.00). (#5928)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-5-13 for furnishing one new brush chipper for the Forestry Division
from Vermeer  Colorado, Commerce City, Colorado (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-12-13 for furnishing one new aerial platform fire apparatus and small
equipment for the City of Cheyenne Fire & Rescue Department (State Loan and Investment Board
grant, 2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Transfer of Ownership for a Retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office
for Los Abuelos M exican Restaurant, LLC d/b/a Los Abuelos Mexican Restaura nt, 1601 Central
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by  One Ea st Sixteenth LLC, 1601 Central
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
Appointment of Carla Thur in to the  Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint
Powers Board.  Mr. Collins moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Voting “yes” --  all members
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delgate for the City of Cheyenne at
the 2013 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Winter Workshop Business Meeting.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (Mayor Richard L. Kaysen - Official Voting Delegate; Councilman Sean
Allen - Alternate Delegate).  
Announcement was made  of the a ppointments of Ty ler B edwell, Sav annah Brown, J on
Chenchar, Alex Cole, Kadi Davis, I an Dome, Juliette Givhan, Alex Far kas, Addie Fleming, John
Matsen, Margarita Medrano, Rachel Moseley and Jacob Peterson to the Mayor’s Youth Council, to
be confirmed December 10, 2012.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, December 10, 2012 at 6:00
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a Bar and Grill liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk's office for The Suite, LLC d/b/a The Suite, 1901 Central
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 7:12 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Kristy B. Anderson, CMC
 Deputy City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 6, 2012