MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-12-10 | CLIP_ID: 345 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 345

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 December 10, 2012
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney. 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Collins, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Pierson and Dr . Rinne, ag enda item #24( c) was removed from the Consent Ag enda.  U pon
request by Ms. Broyles, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Collins and Mr. Pierson, agenda
item #12 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Collins moved to approve remaining Consent
Agenda items, seconded by  Mr. B rown.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 26, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Co uncil Chambers.  Mr. V aldez moved to approve  payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a Bar and Grill
liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for The Suite, LLC d/b/a The Suite, 1901
Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Upon inquiry , Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, clar ified the
current licensee at the pr emises is a diffe rent bu siness entity than this applicant and ha s been
operating under a Bar and Grill liquor license.  She stated that if this application is approved, The
Suite, LLC will be issued a new Bar and Grill liquor license and the current license for the site will
be returned to the City, keeping the same number of available Bar and Grill liquor licenses (i.e. 3).
Ms. Intlekofer advised The Suite, L LC is a new re staurant operation.  Ther e being no further
comments and the purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and
referred the application to Finance Committee.
 
Mr. Collins m oved to cha nge the or der of  the ag enda to b ring forward the or dinance
pertaining to granting of a franchise to High West Energy, Inc. before the ordinance pertaining to
granting of a franchise to Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power Company, noting that action that may be
taken on the High West Energy franchise may affect discussion and action on the item involving the
Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power  franchise, seconded by Ms. Ash.  I n response to a proc edural
inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, reviewed provisions of Robert’s Rules of Order relative to the
motion and customary  and usual pra ctices of the g overning body, and advise d if there  was no
objection from City Council members, the motion was procedurally in order.  Following inquiry by
Mayor Kaysen and with no objection raised by City Council members, motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to High West Energy, Inc.,
its successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute electricity to the City and to all
persons, businesses, and industry within a portion of the City in High West’s Certificated Territory
and the r ight to ac quire, construct, install, locate, ma intain, operate and e xtend into, within and
through said City all facilities reasonably necessary to furnish, sell and distribute electricity within
the City and the right to make reasonable use of all streets and other public places and public
easements as herein defined as may be necessary; and fixing the terms and conditions thereof.  Upon
request by Mayor Kaysen, a brief informational review of the process that resulted in the proposed
ordinance, as well as the proposed ordinance for granting a franchise to Cheyenne Light, Fuel and
Power Company (CLFP), was provided by Dan White, City Attorney.  Mr. White also discussed the
following five topics affiliated with both of the proposed franchise ordinances: Franchi se fees;
relationship between the proposed franchise ordinance for CLFP and its request for reimbursement
from the City, under current franchise provisions, for recently discovered overpayments of certain
customers’ franchise fees; main issue of whether the City wants to franchise another provider (i.e.
High West Energy) for electric services within the Ci ty; proposed agreement between CLFP and
High West Energy (HWE) regarding the division of service territories, creating essentially a non-
competition concept, and benefits of having the division of territories approved by the Public Service
Commission (PSC), and rate regulation regarding “fairness” issues relative to HWE’s rates not being
subject to regulation by the PSC, and CLFP rates being subject to regulation by the PSC.  During his
comments, Mr. White advised that legal staff would probably be proposing an amendment for each
ordinance to clar ify what “approval” means with re gard to the PSC and service  territorie s as
contained in the concluding paragraphs of the ordinances.  Brian Heithoff, general manager, High
West Energy, Inc., stated that HWE currently serves 14 accounts within the City limits; provided a
brief overview of the company ’s organizational structure, of fice locations and s ites served, and
advised rates are set and regulated by a Board of Directors.  He noted tha t HWE wishes to serve
future annexed areas to the City within its certificated territory, and that the company is able to serve
additional customers.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Mr. B rown moved to amend by substitute ordinance, which
includes the amendment made at the Dec. 3, 2012 Finance Committee meeting that removes the
proposed franchise fee increase, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Da le Steenbergen, Greater Cheyenne
Chamber of Commerce, spoke in opposition to any franchise fee increases at this time, referencing
the need to keep local taxes low, the effect of increases on community businesses and economic
development competitiveness, noting a letter dated Dec. 10, 2012 from Cheyenne LEADS that had
been submitted on the topic of economic expansion considerations (on file with office of City Clerk).
Discussion followed and included the following topics: Comments in support as well as non-support
of the proposed amendment; franchise fees assessed by other Wyoming and regional municipalities;
purpose of franchise fees; fees as a “pass through” charge to ratepayers; City street and right-of-way
maintenance expense concerns; limited City revenue generation options available pursuant to state
statutes; proposed incremental fee increases over the 25 year term of the franchise ordinance; past
revenue amounts received by the City pursuant to the current franchise ordinance with C LFP;
capability of “re-opening” the franchise ordinance fee provision to potentially amend (increase) fees
in the future if desired; unknown stability of the utility market involving costs for services; other
increased costs to consumers (ex: fuel); incremental franchise fee increases, and number of current
HWE customers within the City with future customers affiliated only with new annexed areas.
During discussion and upon inquiry, clarification was made of the motion on the floor, which would
amend HWE’s fr anchise fees to be 3 perc ent for the  entire franchise term with no incrementa l
increases.  Upon inquiry, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, advised franchise fees received are credited to
the general fund.  Motion to amend by substitute failed.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Ash, Dr. Rinne and Mr.
Spiker.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Valdez
and Mayor Kaysen.  Pursuant to inquiry, Mark Stege, Vice President of Operations, Cheyenne Light,
Fuel and Power Company , briefly reviewed the history of discussions and neg otiations between
CLFP and HWE pursuant to pre vious request by the governing body, and a pr oposed settlement
agreement involving service territories for each entity to be approved by the governing body and the
PSC, and noted that CLFP has no objection to the City granting a franchise to HWE.  Discussion
followed on pa st requests by  HWE for a  City franchise; concerns with community  growth and
customers being served by two providers with differing rates and policies; unknown dependability
of HWE’s services; rate setting approval and regulations by a private Board of Directors vs. the PSC;
issues of fairness; rural vs. urban lifestyles and conditions; entity partnerships and community
contributions, and providing HWE the opportunity to provide services within its certificated area.
Questions arose concerning certain sections of the proposed ordinance, applicable to both HWE and
CLFP franchise ordinances, regarding whether the ordinance, if approved on final reading, could be
amended or terminate d in the future a s noted in Section 14. 1, For feiture, of the ordina nce;
clarification regarding waiving of City building permit fees as outlined in Section 3.5, Franchise Fee
Payment in Lieu of Other Fees and Charges, and Section 4.5 (b) relative to abandoned facilities and
further legal review of what would be required for an abandoned facility to be removed at the cost
of the franchise service provider.  In response to the questions raised, Mr. White expressed his legal
belief that Section 14.1 of the ordinance, considered to be a contract, provides for termination only
for cause, such as failure of the franchisee to fulfill provisions contained in the ordinance.  He stated
as Section 3.5 begins with the phrase “... In connection with the operation of facilities to furnish, sell
and distribute electricity within the City ..”, if the franchisee is constructing a building structure all
of the regular permit fee requirements would apply, noting additional clarification to this section
could be done if needed.  Upon query and there being no objection voiced by City Council members,
Mayor Kaysen requested a representative for HWE and CLFP each provide their interpretation of
what the word “abandoned” meant to their respective company operations with respect to Section
4.5 (b).  Mr. Heithoff stated abandonment to them means that when they have a service location that
is no longe r used f or a pe riod of time and ther e’s no r eal future use f or the ser vice, it would be
removed, and clarified, upon inquiry, that measures would be taken so the property would not pose
any safety concerns.  Randy Leinen, Director of Operations, CLFP, stated delving deeper into what
abandonment means may be needed, and cited an example of a former physical building facility
within the Cit y that the company  had vac ated a nd h ad subsequently made dr ainage and othe r
property improvements to alleviate abandonment conditions.  He noted that abandonment could also
mean a service line that is no longer used or has failed, advising in many instances CLFP won’t dig
up a City street to remove an underground line as damage would be more expensive than leaving the
line in place.  It was noted that an abandoned service line scenario is different than an abandoned
physical (building) facility.  Pursuant to inquiry, Mr. Heithoff provided information on the following:
Composition of HWE’s Board of Directors (seven members with each Director representing a
geographically located dis trict which c urrently includes the a reas of Chey enne, H illsdale and
PineBluffs, WY; Hereford, CO, and Kimball and Potter, NE); Board delegation of authority of some
areas of ope rations to Mr. Heith off with other ar eas, including customer rate issues, being  the
Board’s responsibility; fairness issue; current customers within the City wishing to continue with
services provided by HWE; class of service type and amount of energy used as factors in determining
fees, and the company’s reliability record.  During discussion, question was raised on whether the
governing body has the legal authority to make a final decision on which entity (i.e. HWE or CLFP)
could provide service to a specific area that was annexed in the future.  Mr. White expressed his
understanding that if the agreement between HWE and CLFP is approved, both by the City Council
for the issuance of dual franchises and then by the PSC, and a future annexation(s) occurs, those
customers in the annexed area would have to be served by the entity approved by the PSC for that
certificated area and that the governing body, on its own, does not have decision-making authority
to change each entity’s approved service area without consent of the PS C.  He a dded his further
understanding that the PSC, as a matter of law, retains jurisdiction to alter certificated territories.
Randy Reed, legal counsel for HWE, stated the statutes regarding the topic are less than a “model
of clarity” and expressed HWE’s position that the City does have and retains authority to determine
what electric utilities operate within its corporate boundaries under home rule (state constitution) and
state statutes.  He further noted that Section 14.3 of the franchise ordinance indicates the City retains
all legal remedies that it would otherwise have under law, and that he believes one of those remedies
would be the right to repeal the franchise ordinance.  John Sundahl, attorney for CLFP, stated a
franchise ordinance is a contract between the parties and if, for example, a franchisee has a vested
financial interest and provides services within its certificated area, it was his belief that the City
could not revoke/terminate the franchise, commenting that potential legal liability to the City could
occur.  He also indicated if the governing body wanted to address the right to revoke or terminate,
it should be more specifically worded in the franchise ordinance for review by PSC.  He expressed
his opinion that the PSC has continuing jurisdiction, and advised that he wouldn’t rely on the ability
of the City  to take bac k a franchise once granted.  Motion to approve the or dinance on second
reading failed (due to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson
and Mr. Valdez.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mayor Kaysen.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown raised a point of orde r requesting procedural
clarification pertaining to the f uture status of the agenda item due to the motion failing.  May or
Kaysen advised the item, pursuant to the current meeting’s process, will not be moving forward for
further review or action at either the next Finance Committee meeting or the next City Council
meeting.
ORDINANCE - Granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to Cheyenne Light, Fuel and
Power Company, its successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute electricity to the
City and to all persons, businesses, and industry within a portion of the City in Cheyenne Light, Fuel
and Power Company’s Certificated T erritory and the r ight to ac quire, construct, install, locate,
maintain, operate and extend into, within and through said City all facilities reasonably necessary
to furnish, sell and distribute electricity within the City and the right to make reasonable use of all
streets and other public places and public easements as herein defined as may be necessary; and
fixing the terms and conditions thereof.  Upon confirmation by Dan White, City Attorney, Mayor
Kaysen advised that information provided and issues discussed by Mr. White prior to discussion on
the previous agenda item pertaining to the franchise ordinance for High West Energy (HWE) also
applied to this item.  Mark Stege, Vice President of Operations, Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power
Company, explained the Nov. 20, 2012 filing for a new franchise agreement involves an electrical
services franchise only and, if approved by the governing body, then filing for a natural gas franchise
would follow.  He requested approval of the ordinance and reviewed examples of the company’s
assistance over the years with local economic development efforts; commented on CLFP’s service
reliability; noted improvements and projects the company has completed, as well as current and
future projects and investments in the community, to provide for the future supply of electricity and
natural gas, and stated the company has been a community partner for 130 years.  Mr. Brown moved
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute
ordinance, which includes the amendment made at the Dec. 3, 2012 Finance Committee meeting that
removes the proposed franchise fee increase, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Dale Steenbergen, Greater
Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, commented in opposition to a significant increase in tax burden
on businesses, total tax areas affecting businesses, the need to have the ability to c ompete with
recruitment of businesses with re gard to economic de velopment, and c oncern with a 25 y ear
commitment to increased taxes under the proposed franchise term.  Sam McKeown, Norco, Inc.,
expressed his belief the City has become, over time, more regressive toward business, and spoke in
opposition to any increased costs to busi nesses and current economy concerns.  May or Kaysen
thanked Mr. McKeown for his email comments received earlier in the day (on file with office of City
Clerk).  Discussion followed on the amount of revenue the City has received over the past 20 years
in franchise revenues from CLFP, support as well as non-support for the proposed amendment and
new f ranchise ordinanc e g enerally, and status of the c urrent CL FP fra nchise ordina nce if  the
proposed ordinance should fail.  Upon inquiry, Mr. White advised if the proposed ordinance fails,
the current franchise ordinance (Ordinance No. 3146) would remain in effect.  Motion to amend by
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Sp iker, Mr.
Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles and Mr. Pierson.  In response to
inquiry, Mr. Stege verified expiration date of the current franchise ordinance is Dec. 31, 2016, and
clarified CLFP was seeking a new agreement at this time due to HWE’s  request for a franchise
ordinance and the desire to have concurrent agreements between the two utility entities, and was also
due to CLFP’s significant investment in its new Cheyenne generation substation relative to a new
long term franchise agreement.  It was noted that CLFP started its process for the new generation
substation approximately 1 ½ years ago.  Main motion to approve the ordinance, as amended, on
second reading failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Collins, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Voting “no” -- Mr.
Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential -
Established District to MUB Mixed Use with Business Emphasis District for Lots 30 and 31, Block
1, Ea stridge, Ch eyenne, Wyoming (l ocated a t th e no rthwest c orner o f t he int ersection o f E ast
Pershing Boulevard and Converse Avenue).  Frank Cole spoke in opposition to placing apartments,
a business or a parking area on the lots, and suggested a pocket park would be better suited for the
location.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Mr. Collins.  Upon inquiry, Nathan Beauheim, Assistant City Engineer, stated the intent
for use of the prope rty is to construct a pa rking lot and then th e City hopes to trade the land for
property at the former Hollywood Video site in conjunction with the roundabout to be constructed
in the area.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Following a ten minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:22 p.m.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Of ficial Zoning Map of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from P Public District to CBD Central Business District for Lot
1, Block 1, 2100 Pioneer Subdivision, C heyenne, Wyoming (located at 2100 Pioneer Avenue) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
    RESOLUTION - Authorizing t he C ity Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the
amount of $247,178.18, pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry regarding procedures utilized in collecting debts and whether the debts
to be discharged could continue to be collected if the resolution was adopted, Lois Huff, Ci ty
Treasurer, clarified even though the debts would be written-off, the City can continue to pursue
collection for  payment.  She revie wed c ollection eff orts by staff a nd stated re vised collec tion
procedures are being reviewed, noting implementation of a new accounts receivable system will
assist with better tracking and querying capabilities.  U pon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney,
advised asserting liens against property is governed by state statute and c areful review would be
needed to determine whether that could be utilized, and stated once an uncollectible is sent to the
City’s collection agency, the City  can’t take it back unle ss the ag ency agrees.  Upon additional
inquiry during discussion, Mr. White advised he has been researching the law to determine whether
the list of debto r names can be published in the future .  Discussion topics included: Bulk of
uncollectibles due to charges at the landfill and sanitation; age of accounts on the list proposed to
be discharged; debt accumulation under different personal or business names, and revised collection
procedures per Ms. Huff’s comments.  Ms. Huff provided information on the measures that may be
instituted to assist with reduced future uncollectibles, and the aggregate amount of uncollectible debt
for the past few years.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen clarified internal review for the collection of
unpaid debts is under way and the criteria for future collection efforts will be changing.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  (#5450)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Yea r 2013 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provi sions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - D esignating the Sundays during 2013 that  annual liquor licensees may
extend dispensing room hours of operation for sales until 2:00 a.m. the following day -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - To name the parking structure located between Carey and Pioneer Avenues
and 16  and 17  Streets in the City  of Chey enne as the “Jack R. Spiker Downtown Parkingth th
Structure” -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins). 
                                                         
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed
upon the Laramie County Projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the
February 2013 meeting for Countywide Consensus B lock Grant F unding in the  amount of
$721,407.86 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed
upon the Town of Pine Bluffs Projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for
the February 2013 meeting  for County wide Cons ensus Block Grant Funding in the amount of
$161,000  -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Collins).  
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Swan Ranch Rail Park, 6  Filing, a portion of Sections 22, 23 and 27, T.13N., R.67W., 6  P.M.,th th
Laramie Cou nty, Wy oming  (l ocated w est o f C lear C reek Pa rkway, s outh o f O verland Tr ails
Business Park Subdivision) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Trinity Estates, a portion of the W½SE¼, Section 1, T.14N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Laramie County,
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to I-25, north of Riding Club Road) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash). 
[CA] RESOLUTION -Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Arp Elementary School, 1st Filing, a replat of Lots 1 and 12, Block 3, Niobrara Energy Park, and a
portion o f the S W¼ o f t he N W¼ o f S ection 9 , T .13N., R .66W., 6 th P .M., L aramie C ounty,
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Reiner Court, between Hinkley Drive and E. Allison Road)
-- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne to enter into
an agreement for the trade of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne to Christensen’s, Inc., a
Wyoming corporation, described as a parcel of land generally located west of Cribbon Avenue near
the intersection of Cribbon Avenue and West 28  Street, consisting of approximately 8,451 squareth
feet (estimated value  o f $30,000.00), and pa yment of ca sh considera tion in ex change for  rea l
property owned by Christensen’s, Inc., consisting of approximately 52,990 square feet (estimated
value of $188,100.00), generally located west of Cribbon Avenue near the intersections of Cribbon
Avenue and Talbot Court and Dodge Court, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsors - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. Valdez).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Okie Addition, First Filing, a portion of Section 28, T.14N., R.67W., 6th
P.M., C heyenne, Wy oming ( located a t t he n ortheast c orner o f th e in tersection o f E . Pe rshing
Boulevard and Windmill Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department, and KONE, Inc. for
maintenance service on various elevators in City buildings.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5930)  
[CA] Community Based Family Support and Preser vation Grant Contract betwe en the City  of
Cheyenne, Youth Alter natives, and the  Wy oming De partment of F amily Service s, Protection
Services Division, to provide in-home support and mentoring services to under-served families and
strengthen the ability of parents to provide care for their children.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5931)
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department,
and Solid W aste Professionals of Wy oming, for Happy Jack Landfill Expansion and closure of
existing cells (Solid Waste Management fund).  Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount not to
exceed $1,683,483.40, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Comments followed in support of the agreement
to address landfill issues for the future.  Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, advised he
is hopeful a portion of the new cells will be operational by Sept. 2015, noting that estimated date
would coincide with the end date of the solid waste contract involving the Ault, CO site.  He also
provided fur ther information on the landfill project, including  the anticipate d maxi mum life
expectancy of the new cells and potential funding through the  State Revolving Loan Fund program,
stating the project will be completed in phases.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Elias stated there may be other
possibilities for the future and other options are continually being reviewed with regard to the issue
of solid waste.  M ayor Kaysen added that future technology may also present an opportunity to
pursue reduced landfill costs.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body.
(#5932)
[CA] Agreement betwee n the City  of C heyenne and The L amar Companies, Ba ton Rouge ,
Louisiana, for placement of billboard advertising signs -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Grant Award Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd the Wy oming Of fice of
Homeland Security for a grant in the amount of $100,000 for the City of Cheyenne Fire and Rescue
Department (Region 7 State Regional Emergency Response Team) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement be tween th e City  of  Che yenne, O ffice of  Yo uth Al ternatives, a nd L aramie
County, Wyoming, for juvenile probation services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-5-13 for furnishing one new brush chipper for the Forestry Division
from Vermeer Colorado, Commerc e City, Colorado (2011- 2014 1%  Sales Tax ).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $37,004.00 with trade-in). 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-12-13 for f urnishing one new aerial platform fire apparatus and
small equipment for the City of Cheyenne Fire & Rescue Department (State Loan and Investment
Board grant, 2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid submitted
by Front Range Fire, Frederick, CO; amount not to exceed $1,061.882.00 with trade-in).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-6-13 for furnishing one new 2012-2013 airless truck mounted paint
striping mac hine for the  Traf fic Division (2011-2014 1%  Sales Tax) -- re ferred to Financ e
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-15-13 for furnishing 120 portable radios, installing one vehicular
charger a nd trading  in 120 surplus Motorola p ortable radios for  the City  of Chey enne, Police
Department (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-9-13 for furnishing one new 2013 rubber tire front end loader and
trading in one salvaged 2004 Caterpillar 924G for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation and Landfill
Divisions (Solid Waste Management fund & insurance) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Diagonal Parking Permit application filed with  the City Clerk’s off ice by Chaplin Park
Development Group, LLC, requesting approval of implementation of diagonal parking spaces along
Dey Avenue in association with the renovation of the historic Chaplin School project -- referred to
Public Services Committee. 
 Appointments of Tyler Bedwell, Savannah Brown, Jon Chenchar, Alex Cole, Kadi Davis,
Ian Dome, Juliette Givhan, Alex Farkas, Addie Fleming, John Matsen, Margarita Medrano, Rachel
Moseley and Jacob Peterson to the Mayor’s Youth Council.  Mr. Allen moved to approve, seconded
by Mr. Collins.  Voting “yes” --  all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made that due to the Christmas holiday, the December 24, 2012 regularly
scheduled meeting of the Governing Body will instead be held on Thursday, December 20, 2012
beginning at Noon in City Council Chambers.  Finance and Public Services Committees will be held
at their usual times, 11:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. re spectively, on Monday, December 17, 2012 and
Tuesday, December 18, 2012 in Room 122, Municipal Building.
Announcement was mad e of the Appointments of Victor ia J. Fry, Megin Rux and  F red
Lacey III to the Cheyenne Historic Preservation Board, and Dr. Brad Kincheloe to the Cheyenne
Laramie County Board of Health, to be confirmed December 20, 2012. 
Announcement was made of the Re-appointments of Randy Byers, Bob Clary and Michael
Peel to the B uilding Code B oard of Appeals; Tony Adams and A nn Redman to the Personnel
Commission; Kurt Zunker to the Fire Civil Service Commission; Cindy Pomeroy to the Police Civil
Service Commission; Don Threewitt and Kelly Buchhammer to the Cheyenne Historic Preservation
Board; Maynard J. Richmeier to the Cheyenne Housing Authority; Ted Gertsch, Leland G. Clabots
and Carol Wurdemann to the Housing & Community Development Advisory Council, and Michael
O’Donnell to the Board of Adjustment, to be confirmed December 20, 2012. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 20, 2012 at 12:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the purpose of receiving
public comment on the proposed trade of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, being a
parcel of land on the west side of Cribbon Avenue near the intersection of Cribbon Avenue and West
28th Street. The proposed parcel to be traded for real property owned by Christensen’s Inc., situated
along Cribbon Avenue near the intersections of Cribbon Avenue and Talbot Court and Dodge Court.
Under other business:
Mayor Kaysen advised of an additional item for the agenda due to timeliness involved with
the item and requested Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, read the title of the item as follows:  Wellness
Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for WINhealth Partners
Wellness Program services.  Mayor Kaysen referred the item to Finance Committee.
Brad Ha rrington re ferenced p ast co mments m ade a t p revious C ity C ouncil m eetings
regarding concerns with [United Nations] Agenda 21 by himself and governing body members,
noting a recent public meeting that had been held organized by future County Commissioner M. Lee
Hasenauer.  He reviewed communications with governing body members since those meetings, and
expressed he would like to move forward with discussion on his concerns regarding freedoms and
individual rights.  Mr. Harrington challenged the mayor to a public debate on the topic, and extended
an invitation to governing body members to attend.  Mayor Kaysen advised that the request has been
noted.   
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:56 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 20, 2012