MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2012-12-20 | CLIP_ID: 347 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 347

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 December 20, 2012
Due to t he holiday season, the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne instead met in
regular session on this date beginning at 12:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR -
Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Ms. Ash, Mr. B rown, Ms. Broyles, Mr.
Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne (arriving at 12:45 p.m.), Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present:
Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney. 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Collins and Ms. Ash, ag enda item #20 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Collins
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 10, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Pierson.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for the purpose of receiving public comment on the
proposed trade of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, being a parcel of land on the west
side of Cribbon Avenue near the intersection of Cribbon Avenue and West 28  Street. The proposedth
parcel to be traded for real property owned by Christensen’s Inc., situated along Cribbon Avenue
near the intersection of Cribbon Avenue and Talbot Court and Dodge Court.  Rick Parish, Director
of Parks and Recreation, reviewed the parcels of land involved in the proposed trade, which is
adjacent to Pioneer Park baseball facility, and briefly reviewed improvements that are being made
to the park area.  He explained that during the platting process it was determined that Christensen’s
Inc. was encroaching on a portion of City-owned property and, pursuant to discussions, it is proposed
to tr ade the City’s property (approximately 8,451 sq. ft.) for approximately 52,990 sq. ft. of
Christensen’s Inc. property (plus monetary cash consideration to make up the valuation difference).
He advised property appraisals have been completed on the parcels and noted benefits of the City
acquiring the land and developing it as green space for a playground with a picnic shelter.  He stated
the funding source for the cash consideration would be from money acquired from selling the City’s
property located near Windmill and Dell Range to Menard’s.  There being no further comments and
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map (Cheyenne City Map), of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential -
Established District to MUB Mixed Use with Business Emphasis District for Lots 30 and 31, Block
1, E astridge, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of  Ea st
Pershing Boulevard and Converse Avenue).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Ash
moved to approve on third and final r eading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#3963)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established, and Sectio n 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map of the Unifie d Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from P Public District to CBD Central Business District for Lot
1, Block 1, 2100 Pioneer Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at 2100 Pioneer Avenue).  Ms.
Ash moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  In response to inquiry, Ben
Trautwein, Caldwell Banker, explained the purpose of the zone c hange request is to enhance the
ability to sell  the property.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present. 
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 12.16.020, Planting of certain species of trees and shrubs
in public rights-of-way - Limited, of Chapter 12.16, Trees and Shrubs, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks
and Public Places, of the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the planting of certain trees within the
tree lawn area -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Ms. Ash).
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2013 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5451)
RESOLUTION - Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds.  Mr. Collins
and Mr. Spiker each declared a conflict of interest (board member affiliation with certain financial
institutions) and vacated Council Chambers.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council C hambers.  Following  announcement of the vot e, Mr. Collins and Mr.
Spiker returned to Council Chambers. (#5452)
RESOLUTION - Designating the Sundays during 2013 that annual liquor lice nsees may
extend dispensing room hours of oper ation for sa les until 2:00 a.m. the following da y.  Br yan
Grzegorczyk, President, Laramie County Liquor Association,  reviewed the dates of the four Sundays
being requested (Feb. 3, Super Bowl; March 17, St. Patrick’s Day; July 21, first Sunday of Frontier
Days, a nd Nov. 10, Sunday before Veterans Day).  He spoke in support of the resolution and
provided information on the Association’s safe ride (taxi) for patrons program and the Association’s
various fund raisers and charity work benefitting the community.  Mr. Brown reported there was no
recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by
Mr. Collins.  Comments followed in opposition to the extension of Sunday hours as well as
appreciation for the positive programs and projects promoted by the Association.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Broyles, Mr.
Pierson and Mr. Spiker voting “no”. (#5453)
RESOLUTION - To name the parking structure located between Carey and Pioneer Avenues
and 16  (i.e. Lincolnway) and 17  Streets in the City of Cheyenne as the “Jack R. Spiker Downtownth th
Parking Structure”.  Mr. Spiker declared a conflict of interest and vacated Council Chambers.  Ms.
Ash reported there was no recommendation on the item from Public Services Committee.  Ms. Ash
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Comments followed on the lack of standards for naming
City parks and structures, the number of years Mr. Spiker has served the community as its Mayor
and as a member of City Council, and the numerous projects and improvements Mr. Spiker has been
involved in of benefit to the community .  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Spiker
returned to Council Chambers.  Mayor Kaysen advised a date will be scheduled in the future for the
dedication of naming the structure. (#5454)
                                                   
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed
upon the Laramie County Projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the
February 2013 meeting  for County wide Consensus B lock Gra nt Funding  in the amount  of
$721,407.86.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5455)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed
upon the Town of Pine Bluffs Projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for
the February 2013 meeting  for County wide Consensus B lock Grant Funding in the amount of
$161,000.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5456)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Swan Ranch Rail Park, 6  Filing, a portion of Sections 22, 23 and 27, T.13N., R.67W., 6  P.M.,th th
Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of Clear Creek Parkway, south of Overland Trails Business
Park Subdivision).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5457)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Trinity Estates, a portion of the W½SE¼, Section 1, T.14N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Laramie County,
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to I-25, north of Riding Club Road).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5458) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Arp Elementary School, 1st Filing, a replat of Lots 1 and 12, Block 3, Niobrara Energy Park, and a
portion o f t he S W¼ o f t he N W¼ o f S ection 9 , T .13N., R .66W., 6 th P .M., Laramie C ounty,
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Reiner Court, between Hinkley Drive and E. Allison
Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5459)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne to enter into
an agreement for the trade of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne to Christensen’s, Inc., a
Wyoming corporation, described as a parcel of land generally located west of Cribbon Avenue near
the intersection of Cribbon Avenue and West 28  Street, consisting of approximately 8,451 squareth
feet (estimated value of $30,000.00), and pa yment of ca sh considera tion in ex change for  rea l
property owned by Christensen’s, Inc., consisting of approximately 52,990 square feet (estimated
value of $188,100.00), generally located west of Cribbon Avenue near the intersections of Cribbon
Avenue and Talbot Court and Dodge Court, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mayor Kaysen advised this item
was related to the public hearing held earlier in the meeting.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body present. (#5460)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with
Swan Ranch Properties, LLC, Lot One, Block 1, Energy Park One, Laramie County, Wyoming --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Directing the City Clerk to schedule a Public Hearing pursuant to Section
5.12.040(2) of the Cheyenne City Code to receive public comment on violations of City ordinances
and state la ws pertaining to the sale of a lcoholic beverages, which violations have  occurred at
‘Mingles Bar’ and to provide a notice of said Public Hearing to Stillwater, Inc., dba ‘Mingles Bar’ --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Ms. Broyles). 
Preliminary Plat for Okie Addition, First Filing, a portion of Section 28, T.14N., R.67W., 6th
P.M., Ch eyenne, Wy oming ( located a t t he n ortheast c orner o f th e in tersection o f E . Pe rshing
Boulevard a nd Windm ill R oad).  Ms. Ash moved to acknow ledge re ceipt with staff
recommendations #1 through 5, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting "yes" -- all
members of the governing body present.
[CA] Agreement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd The L amar Companies, Ba ton Rouge ,
Louisiana, for placement of billboard advertising signs.  M otion (per Consent Agenda) carried..
(#5939) 
[CA] Grant Awar d Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd the Wy oming Office of
Homeland Security for a grant in the amount of $100,000 for the City of Cheyenne Fire and Rescue
Department (Region 7 State Regional Emergency Response Team).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5940)
[CA] Agreement b etween th e City  of  Che yenne, O ffice of  Yo uth Alternatives, a nd L aramie
County, Wyoming, for juvenile probation services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5941)
Wellness Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for
WINhealth Partners Wellness Program services.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr.
Valdez.  Comments followed on the benefits that have resulted from the program and cost savings
that have been realized.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body present.
(#5942)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne on behalf of the Cheyenne
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) and Transit Plus for the 2013 Transit Development Plan
for Cheyenne Transit Program (MPO Planning funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 3 to Cont ract No. 5496 bet ween the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and Ayres Associates for additional design services for the East Pershing
Boulevard reconstruction project (Phase IV) (2003-2006, 2007-2010 1% Sales Tax, Board of Public
Utilities, Federal Highway Administration funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-6-13 for furnishing one new 2012-2013 airless truck mounted paint
striping machine for the Traffic Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (a ccept bid from Peterbilt of Chey enne, WY for a total bid amount, with trade -in, of
$269,573.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-15-13 for furnishing 120 portable radios, installing one vehicular
charger a nd trading  in 120 surplus Motorola portable r adios for the City of Chey enne, Police
Department (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept
bid from Mot orola Solutions, W estminister, CO, for a total bid amount, with trade -ins, of
$589,708.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-9-13 for furnishing one new 2013 rubber tire front end loader and
trading in one salvaged 2004 Caterpillar 924G for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation and Landfill
Divisions (Solid Waste Manag ement fund &  insurance).  Motion (per Con sent Agenda) carried
(accept bid from Wyoming Machinery, Cheyenne, WY, for a total bid amount, with trade- in, of
$185,723.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-8-13 for furnishing one new 2012-2013 backhoe loader from Titan
Machinery, Cheyenne, WY, for the Concrete Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Diagonal Parking Permit application filed with the City Clerk’s office by Chaplin Park
Development Group, LLC, requesting approval of implementation of diagonal parking spaces along
Dey Avenue in association with the renovation of the historic Chaplin School project.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Bar and Grill liquor license application for The Suite, LLC d/b/a The Suite, 1901 Central
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Appointments of Victoria J. Fry, Megin Rux and Fred Lacey III to the Cheyenne Historic
Preservation Board, and Dr. Brad Kincheloe to the Cheyenne Laramie County Board of Health.  Mr.
Collins moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Re-appointments of Randy Byers, Bob Clary and Michael Peel to the Building Code Board
of Appeals; Tony Adams and Ann Redman to the Personnel Commission; Kurt Zunker to the Fire
Civil Service Commission; Cindy Pomeroy to the Police Civil Service Commission; Don Threewitt
and Kelly Buchhammer to the Cheyenne Historic Preservation Board; Maynard J. Richmeier to the
Cheyenne Housing Authority; Ted Gertsch, Leland G. Clabots and Carol Wurdemann to the Housing
& Community Development Advisory Council, and Michael O’Donnell to the Board of Adjustment.
Mr. Collins m oved to appr ove, seconded by Ms. Broy les.  Voting  “yes” -- all members of the
governing bod y present with the exception of May or Ka ysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointments).
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held January 14, 2013, at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo.
Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of the east half of the east half
of Section 20, and a portion of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of the northwest
quarter o f S ection 2 1, T ownship 1 4 N orth, R ange 6 6 W est o f t he 6 th P.M., Laramie C ounty,
Wyoming (located approximately 1500 feet north of the intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden
Road).
             Announcement was made that the Sine Die meeting of the Governing Body will be held at
2:30 p.m., and th e First Regular Meeting of the Gover ning Body will be held at 3:00 p.m., on
Monday, January 7, 2013 in the Civic Center, 510 W. 20  Street; a reception to follow in the Civicth
Center Lobby.
Announcement was made that due to the Sine Die meeting of the Governing Body and the
First Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on Monday, January 7, 2013, regularly scheduled City
Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue,
Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows:  Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, January 8,
2013 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday, January 9, 2013 at Noon.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held January 14, 2013 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership for
a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for RMH Franchise Corporation
d/b/a Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill & Bar, 1401 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming (License
currently held by Concord Neighborhood Corporation d/b/a Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill & Bar,
1401 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Under other business:
Mr. Spiker stated th at at the Dec. 10th Cit y Council meeting , the motion to approve the
ordinance on 2nd reading to grant a franchise to High West Energy, Inc. had failed and, as he had
voted on the prevailing side, he moved to reconsider the vote on the ordinance, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Mayor Kaysen clarified the procedure involving a motion to reconsider.  Brian Heithoff,
General Manager for High West Energy, Inc. (HWE), spoke in favor of the motion to reconsider and
noted the following reasons in support of reconsidering the item as well as support for the ordinance:
Economic development purposes; growth and services expansion; certainty of service area providing
stability; infrastruc ture investments and ability  and commitment to serve ne w ac counts; non-
exclusive fr anchise, an d continuance of  se rvice to e xisting a ccounts a nd the  a bility fo r t hose
customers to retain ownership rights in HWE (City Clerk note:  During comments, Dr. Rinne joined
the meeting  at 12:45 p.m.).  During  his comments, Mr. Heithoff c larified i nformation he had
provided at previous meetings.  Comments followed in opposition as well as support for the motion
to reconsider.  Discussion topics included:  "Straddling" City Council membership involving voting
actions by current/outgoing members and incoming/newly elected members relative to the timing
of action that may be taken on 2nd reading vs. final reading of the ordinance (if the motion to
reconsider and subsequent vote on the ordinance is approved); carry-over of other agenda items
between current and incoming Council members; 25 year franchise commitment if the ordinance is
approved on final reading, and support for granting HWE the opportunity to provide services within
its approved territory.  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting "yes" -- Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms.
Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Voting "no" --  Mr. Allen, Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne
and Mayor Kaysen.  Upon request by Mayor Kaysen, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, read the ordinance
entitlement as follows:  ORDINANCE - Granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to High West
Energy, Inc., its successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute electricity to the City
and to all persons, businesses, and industry within a portion of the City in High West’s Certificated
Territory and the right to acquire, construct, install, locate, maintain, operate and extend into, within
and through said City all facilities reasonably necessary to furnish, sell and distribute electricity
within the City and the right to make reasonable use of all streets and other public places and public
easements as her ein defined as may  be nec essary; and fixi ng the terms and c onditions thereof.
Mayor Kaysen advised the motion now on the floor was to approve the ordinance on 2nd reading,
noting the ordinance version was the one initially submitted for the agenda dated Nov. 21, 2012.
Shawn Taylor, Executive Director, Wyoming Rural Electric Association, advised of dual utility
franchises that have been approved for other areas in Wyoming and amicable working relationships
between the utility companies; discussed rate regulating through the Public Services Commission
(PSC) and past state leg islative action that provides non- profit cooperatives, such as HWE, the
ability to "opt out" of rate regulation through the PSC and to determine its rates through action by
the cooperatives' board of directors, and reviewed options available to c ustomers to c ontest rate
changes that may  be implemented throug h a boar d of direct ors.  Dale Stee nbergen, Executive
Director, Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, commented that both companies (i.e. HWE and
Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power Compnay (CLFP)) are involved in proposed franchise ordinances
and have negotiated a proposed agreement as previously requested by the governing body, and spoke
in support of keeping fees down and leaving the opportunity open for future review of increases.
Mayor Ka ysen cla rified the c urrent motion on t he floor did not include a n ordinanc e ver sion
containing a specific time frame for review of the franchise fee for possible incremental increases.
Mr. Spiker moved to amend by substitute ordinance dated 12/20/2012, seconded by Mr. Pierson.
It was noted that the pr oposed substitute contains a provision that the fr anchise fee  would be
reviewed with the opportunity to increase the fee by one-half of a percent 7 years following approval
of the ordinance, and also at two additional 7 year interval periods during the 25 year term of the
franchise.  Mr. Allen raised a point of order questioning whether the motion to reconsider had been
disposed of with Mayor Kaysen clarifying the vote had been taken on the motion and the motion
carried by a 6 to 4 af firmative vote.  U pon inquiry, City Attorney Dan Whi te reviewed changes
contained in the proposed substitut e as f ollows:  Editorial error w as corrected which r emoved
reference to the inclusion of natura l gas services; wording changes in the conc luding paragraph
relating to the e ffectiveness of the franchise, which will not occur until the allocation of se rvice
territory is approved by the PSC, and language changes to Article 3.1 a. which provides that at the
7, 14 and 21 year time frames during the franchise term there is an option for the City Council to
increase the franchise fee by one half percent increments.  He explained the option for reviewing and
increasing the franchise fee at each seven year interval provides the right, but not the obligation, of
City Council to decide whether to increa se the fe e at that time, and tha t the signific ance of the
wording is that it reserves the unilateral right by Council to change the fee and would not require the
consent of either HWE or CLFP.  He noted the proposed wording would pertain to both franchise
ordinances which, if approved, would result in both entities being treated equally.  Upon inquiry on
wording of the current franchise agreement with CLFP and the ability to re-negotiate the franchise
fee during  the term of the  ag reement, Mr. White provided information pursua nt to provisions
contained in current franchise Ordinance #3146, noting proposed amendments to  th e fran chise
ordinance would involve a notification process and that good faith negotiations involving the fee
could be conducted but the ordinance does not provide any unilateral clauses giving the City rights
to raise the fee.  Discussion followed and included the following topics:  Concern with lack of
flexibility to review the franchise fee at times other than the three 7 year time frame periods outlined
in the proposed substitute ordinanc e; postponing the  item to allow for public notific ation and
participation; City Council public meeting schedule if the proposed ordinance was approved on 2nd
reading at the current meeting (i.e. 3rd and final reading review at the Jan. 8th Finance Committee
meeting and potential action at the Jan. 14th City Council meeting); wording involving future review
schedule of the fr anchise fee  as we ll as ordinance provisions invol ving pote ntial future
amendment(s); cooperative negotiations between the utility companies; involvement by staff and
utility company representatives regarding the proposed f ranchise fee amount and re commended
franchise term during drafting of the ordinances for both companies, and rate approval process.
During discussion and upon inquiry, Mr. Heithoff confirmed that technically any approval to a
change in fra nchise fee, pursuant to discussions to amend the ordinanc e, would be thr ough the
cooperative's board of directors and not by HWE members.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.
Voting "yes" --  all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting "no".
Gary Kelley advised he is a customer of both HWE and CLFP and spoke in support of the services
provided by each company and approval of dual franchises.  He encouraged the governing body to
keep expenses down and to provide the public with the opportunity to comment on any fee increases
that are "passed through" to customers.  Discussion followed on competitive vs. non-competitive
services that ma y re sult b y a pproving du al f ranchise a greements; f airness i ssues; c ommunity
partnering and contr ibutions provided by CLFP; concern with limit ing growth opportunities for
CLFP as well as HWE; providing HWE the opportunity to provide electric utility service within the
City; concern with difference in rate regulation between the two companies; length of franchise term
(i.e. 25 y ears); ot her services provided to re sidents by outside providers, a nd continuity of the
membership of the governing body due to staggered terms and changes in elected officials.  Main
motion to approve on 2nd reading as amended by substitute ordinance carried.  Voting "yes" --  Ms.
Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Pierson, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Voting "no" -- Mr. Allen,
Mr. Collins, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Mayor Kaysen advised the ordinance would be reviewed
again at the F inance Committee meeting on Jan. 8, 2013 at 11:00 a.m . in Room 122, Municipal
Building, and be back before the governing body on 3rd reading at its Jan. 14, 2013 City Council
meeting.
Dr. Rinne stated that at the December 10th City Council meeting, the motion to approve the
ordinance on 2nd reading to grant a franchise to Cheyenne Light Fuel and Power Company (CLFP)
had failed and, as he  had voted on the pr evailing side, he moved to re consider the vote on the
ordinance, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Mayor Kaysen verified the votes taken on the ordinance at the
Dec. 10th Cit y Council meeting and confirmed that Dr. Rinne ha d voted on the prevailing side.
Upon request by Mayor Kaysen, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, read the ordinance entitlement as
follows:  ORDINANCE - Granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to Cheyenne Light, Fuel and
Power Company, its successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute electricity to the
City and to all persons, businesses, and industry within a portion of the City in Cheyenne Light, Fuel
and Power Company’s Certificated Territory and t he right to acquire , construct, install, locate ,
maintain, operate and extend into, within and through said City all facilities reasonably necessary
to furnish, sell and distribute electricity within the City and the right to make reasonable use of all
streets and other public plac es and public easements as herein defined as may be necessary; and
fixing the terms and conditions thereof.  M ark Stege, Vice President of Operations for CLFP,
requested support of the motion to rec onsider and spoke  in favor of  allowing CLFP to continue
providing se rvices, no ting the  c ompany's h istory of  e conomic de velopment a nd c ommunity
partnership efforts.  Comments followed and included the following topics:  Support of the motion
to reconsider and ordinance generally; "straddling" the vote between 2nd and final readings of the
ordinance between outgoing and incoming City Council members; current franchise ordinance with
CLFP and remaining franchise time frame; fairness issues and tre ating each utility company the
same, and future placement order on the agenda for the ordinances involving HWE and CLFP.  Upon
inquiry, Ms. Intlekofer and Dan White, City Attorney, advised the governing body has the authority
to change the agenda order at its meetings if desired.  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting "yes" --
all members of the governing body.  Mayor Kaysen advised the motion now on the floor was the
main motion to approve the ordinance on 2nd reading as amended at the Dec. 10th meeting.  John
Sundahl, a ttorney r epresenting C LFP, u rged a doption o f a  s imilar a mendment ( i.e. s ubstitute
ordinance) for the CLFP ordinance as the amendment made on the previous agenda item for HWE.
Mr. White reviewed changes contained in a proposed substitute ordinance that adds a clause at the
end of the ordinance to indicate if the ordinance is approved it would partially repeal the existing
franchise ordinance with CLFP (Ordinance #3146) insofar as electric service is concerned but would
preserve the existing franchise ordinance with regard to gas services; noted editorial changes were
made in the approval clause to clarify the ordinance would not be effective until approved by the
governing bo dy, p ublished in  a ccordance wi th l aw, and  a ffirmatively a pproved b y the  Pub lic
Services Commission as to the allocation of service territory, and that the franchise fee section was
changed to have the same wording as that approved for HWE relative to the three 7 year franchise
fee review time frames with unilateral rights by City Council to increase fees by no more than one-
half of one percent during each of the 7 year periods outlined in the substitute ordinance.  He stated
City Council could unilaterally impose a franchise fee increase and would not need the consent of
CLFP, however, the wording does not obligate City Council to increase the fee.  Mr. Sundahl noted
there was a slight change to Section 18.2 in the proposed ordinance for CLFP, which differs from
the substitute approved f or HWE, with reg ard to e xisting fr anchise electrical services vs. g as
services.  Dale Steenbergen, Executive Director, Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, spoke
in favor of the franchise ordinance for CLFP.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute ordinance
dated 12/20/2012 which contains the changes explained by Mr. White, seconded by Mr. Pierson.
Mayor Kaysen clarified the substitute, if approved, gives the governing body unilateral rights to
address potential franchise fee increases on a defined incremental basis.  Motion carried.  Voting
"yes" -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting "no".  M ain
motion to approve on 2nd reading as amended by substitute ordinance carried.  Voting "yes" -- all
members of the governing body.
 
Appreciation was expressed to Public Works Department and Street and Alley Division
employees for snow clearing and removal services after the most recent snow storm.  Mayor Kaysen
expressed appreciation on behalf of the City and community to outgoing City Council members (Ms.
Ash, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson and Mr. Spiker) for their years of elected service.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting w as
officially adjourned at 2:10 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 3, 2013