MEETING: Sine Die and First Regular Meeting | DATE: 2013-01-10 | CLIP_ID: 352 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 352

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
January 7, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in “Sine Die” Session on this date at 2:30
p.m. in the Cheyenne Civic Center.  Those present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and
Mr. Valdez.  Also present were Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White, City Attorney. 
Following the pledge of allegiance, Mayor Kaysen welcomed those in attendance and stated the
purpose of the session was to ce remonially recognize outgoing Council members for  their years of
service on C ity Council.  He commente d generally on community  leadership and g overning body
achievements; expressed appreciation to outgoing Council members for their time, effort and dedication
to the community, and recognized the supporting roles of families, friends and co-workers.
At Mayor Kaysen’s request, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, read a ceremonial resolution in its
entirety honoring outgoing Council member Amber Ash, entitled as follows:  “A Ceremonial Resolution
in Recognition of the Honorable Amber Ash for her Dedication and Outstanding Contributions to the
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and its Residents.”  Mayor Kaysen noted Ms. Ash was sworn in as a
County Commissioner earlier in the afternoon and explained, pursuant to state statute, Ms. Ash wa s
ineligible to hold both the position of City Council member and County Commissioner at the same time,
which was why she was not seated at the dais.  He advised Ms. Ash had submitted her resignation as
a member of City Council prior to being sworn in at the County.  Mayor Kaysen presented Ms. Ash with
an engraved plaque noting her 4 years of membership on City Council and thanked her for her service
to the community.  Ms. Ash briefly commented on her years of service, expressed appreciation for being
able to s erve the c ommunity a s a  City  Cou ncil m ember, a nd sta ted s he wa s lo oking fo rward to
continuing her service to the community as a County Commissioner. (#5461)
At Mayor Kaysen’s request, Ms. Intlekofer read a ceremonial resolution in its entirety honoring
outgoing Council member Patrick Collins, entitled as follows:  “A Ceremonial Resolution in
Recognition of the Honorable Patrick Collins for his Dedication and Outstanding Contributions to the
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and its Residents.”  Mayor Kaysen presented Mr. Collins with an engraved
plaque noting his 12 y ears of member ship on Cit y Council and thanked him for  his service  to the
community. M r. Collins briefly  commented on his y ears of servic e as a  City  Council member,
expressing appreciation to the voters of Ward II, co- City Council members who had served with him,
City staff, and members of his family for their support. (#5464)
At Mayor Kaysen’s request, Ms. Intlekofer read a ceremonial resolution in its entirety honoring
outgoing Council member Don Pierson, entitled as follows:  “A Ceremonial Resolution in Recognition
of the Honor able Don Pier son for his Dedic ation and Outstanding  Contributions  to the City  of
Cheyenne, Wyoming, and its Residents.”  Mayor Kaysen presented Mr. Pierson with an engraved plaque
noting his 20 years of membership on City Council and thanked him for his service to the community.
Mr. Pierson briefly commented on his years of service as a City Council member and thanked the voters
of the community for allowing him to serve them. (#5462)
At Mayor Kaysen’s request, Ms.  Intlekofer read a ceremonial resolution in its entirety honoring
outgoing Cou ncil m ember Ja ck R.  Spi ker, e ntitled a s f ollows:  “ A C eremonial Re solution in
Recognition of the Honorable Jack R. Spiker for his Dedication and Outstanding Contributions to the
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and its Residents.”  Mayor Kaysen  presented Mr. Spiker with an engraved
plaque noting his most recent 4 years of membership on City Council and thanked him for his 16 years
of se rvice, b oth a s a  Cou ncil m ember a nd fo rmer Ma yor, to  the  c ommunity.  M r. Spi ker b riefly
commented on his years of service as a City Council member and former Mayor and expressed his
appreciation to City staff, to voters for entrusting their vote in him, and to members of his family for
their support. (#5463)
On behalf of the governing body, Mayor Kaysen expressed appreciation to Mr. Collins for his
leadership as City Council President for 2012 and presented him with an engraved gavel plaque.
Mayor Kaysen announced the First Regular Meeting of the governing body involving newly
elected and continuing members would convene at 3:00 p.m. in the Civic Center.
There being no further business previously noted for t he “Sine Die” Session, Mayor Kaysen
adjourned the meeting at 2:50 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
PUBLISH: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 11, 2013
   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 
Office of City Clerk
 
January 7, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne assembled for its First Regular Meeting for 2013
on this date at 3:00 p.m. in the Cheyenne Civic Center.  Purpose of the First Regular Meeting was to
recognize and administer oaths of office to those individuals who were elected, or re-elected, at the most
recent general election to serve as members of the governing body, as well as provide for certain
administrative func tions.  Rod Hott le provided introduc tory comments and ser ved as ma ster of
ceremonies prior to the meeting being officially convened.
Father August Koeune, Pastor, St. Mary’s Cathedral, delivered the invocation.
The Honorable Michael K. Davis, Justice of the Wyoming Supreme Court, administered the oath
of elected office to Richard L. Kaysen as Mayor,  followed by administration of oath of elected office
for the following newly elected and re-elected City Council members:  Jimmy  Valdez and Annette
Williams, Ward I; Bryan M. Cook and Dicky Shanor, Ward II, and Jim Brown and Mike Luna, Ward
III.
Mayor Kaysen officially called the First Regular Meeting to order at 3:10 p.m.  Those present
were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr.
Cook, Mr. L una, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Va ldez and Ms. Wi lliams.  A lso present were Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Da n White, City Attorney.  Following  the pledg e of allegiance, led by
members of the Mayor’s Youth Council, Mayor Kaysen provided welcoming comments and remarked
on the community role of the governing body and future financial challenges due to the economy.  He
expressed appreciation to those individuals in the community who serve as elected public officials; to
City staff who assisted with the “Sine Die” and current meeting arrangements; to Justice Davis, Father
Koeune, Mr. Hottle, and membe rs of the Ma yor’s Youth Council and Cheyenne Public Employees
Association who participated and assisted with the meeting and reception, to the families of governing
body members for their support, and to Wyoming citizens serving in the military.
Election of City Council President for 2013.  Mayor Kaysen announced, pursuant to City Code,
he would be conducting the election but would not be participating in the vote.  Ms. Broyles moved to
nominate and elect Dr. Rinne as City Council President for 2013, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Brown
moved that nominations cease, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion to cease nominations carried.  Voting
“yes” – all members of the g overning body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.
Motion to nominate and elect Dr. Rinne carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body with
the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.
Election of City Council Vice President for 2013.  Mayor Kaysen announced, pursuant to City
Code, he would be conducting the election but would not be participating in the vote.  Dr. Rinne moved
to nominate and elect Ms. Broyles as City Council Vice President for 2013, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Mr.
Brown moved that nominations cease, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to cease nominations carried.
Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not
vote.  Motion to nominate and elect Ms. Broyles carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.
Approval of Appointment of City  officials (pursuant to Titl e 2 of the  Code of the City  of
Cheyenne) as follows:  Matthew J. A shby, Planning Services Director; James Edward Elias, Public
Works Director; Paul S. Galeotos, Municipal Court Judge; Randy  K. Hays, Assistant City Treasurer
(Board of Public Utilities); Lois A. Huff, City Treasurer; Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk/Assistant City
Treasurer; Ronnald J. Jeffrey, Juvenile Court Judge; Brian N. Kozak, Chief of the Chey enne Police
Department; James A. Martin, Chief of the Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department; Mark T. Moran,
Municipal Court Judge; Richard L. Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, and Daniel E. White, City
Attorney.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve the appointments “en masse”, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who
did not vote (Mayoral appointments).  Following announcement of the vote, Justice Davis administered
the oath of appointment to the above listed City officials.
Following the benediction by Father Koeune, Mayor Kaysen announced that refreshments would
be served in the Civic Center lobby immediately following the meeting.
There being no further business previously noted for the First Regular Meeting, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 3:33 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 11, 2013