MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-01-14 | CLIP_ID: 354 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 354

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 January 14, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and
Dan White, City Attorney. 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Brown moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 20, 2012.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Sine Die Session of the Governing Body on January 7, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from the First Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 7, 2013.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and Radio Station KYOY F M respectively) and vacated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by
Ms. Williams.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in
Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez returned to
Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to determine w hether compliance of anne xation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of
the east half of the east half of Section 20, and a portion of the southwest quarter of the southwest
quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 21, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M.,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located approximately 1500 feet north of the intersection of Converse
Avenue and Ogden Road).  Jim Flesher, Planning and Development Office, reviewed annexation
requirements and criteria pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-402, stating  that the proposed a rea to be
annexed deviates subs tantially from the City ’s PlanCheyenne, Unified Development Code and
Master Transportation Plan documents.  He reviewed staff findings with regard to compliance, or
non-compliance, with Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-402 (a) (i) through (vi).  Mr. Flesher advised of areas of
non-compliance involving c riteria outlined in W.S. § 15-1-40 2 (a) (i) through (iii), noting the
following topics: Storm water drainage facility involving the proposed annexed area, which would
be located outside of the area to be annexed; inability to utilize the limited “strips” of open public
space area; street(s) connectivity problems relative to existing roadways and the transportation plan,
and “piecemeal” development affecting long range planning, zoning and future property uses.  He
stated findings involving conditions outlined in W.S. § 15-1-402 (iv through vi) had been met with
regard to prope rty contig uity, franchises being  in place to se rve the  proper ty, and anne xation
summary notification requirements.  Frank Cole, United W estern Corporation, petitioner f or
annexation, stated that the first three items (i.e. findings previously noted by Mr. Flesher as not being
in compliance) pertained to platting problems and not annexation.  He requested postponement of
a companion agenda item (#21 - Resolution), which had been referred to Public Services Committee
under the approved Consent Agenda motion earlier in the meeting, as he would not be available to
attend the Committee meeting.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Cole verified the property to be annexed is on the
east side of Converse Ave. a nd was not the Sce nic property development a rea located w est of
Converse Ave.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Flesher confirmed the first three criteria items contained in Wyo.
Stat. § 15-1-402 were those that have not been met; the last three criteria items have been met.  Upon
inquiry, Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, advised a preliminary plat related
to the proposed development was postponed at the recent Planning Commission meeting for further
review to addre ss concerns, which include  the open spa ce planned for the ar ea.  Ma yor Kaysen
advised of city code language relative to items for Committee referral not being eligible for removal
from th e Consent Ag enda, a nd indicated that a t the next P ublic Service s Commi ttee mee ting
members could consider recommending postponement of the affiliated Resolution agenda item at
that time, per Mr. Cole’s request.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Cole acknowledged that would be acceptable
to him.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met,
Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a transfer of
ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for RMH Franchise
Corporation d/b/a Applebe e’s Ne ighborhood Grill & B ar, 1401 D ell Rang e B lvd., Chey enne,
Wyoming ( License cur rently held by  Concord Ne ighborhood Corporation d/b/a Applebe e’s
Neighborhood Grill &  Ba r, 1401 De ll Range  Blvd.,  Cheyenne, Wy oming).  There  being  no
comments or input and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the
hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established, and Secti on 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map of the Unifie d Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from P Public District to CBD Central Business District for Lot
1, Block 1, 2100 Pioneer Subdivision, C heyenne, Wyoming (located at 2100 Pioneer A venue).
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  M otion carried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#3964)
ORDINANCE - Granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to High West Energy, Inc.,
its successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute electricity to the City and to all
persons, businesses, and industry within a portion of the City in High West’s Certificated Territory
and the r ight to acquire , construct, install, locate , maintain, opera te and e xtend into, within and
through said City all facilities reasonably necessary to furnish, sell and distribute electricity within
the City and the right to make reasonable use of all streets and other public places and public
easements as herein defined as may be necessary; and fixing the terms and conditions thereof.  Brian
Heithoff, General Manager for High West Energy, advised he was available to answer any questions.
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute ordinance dated 01-11-2013, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised the substitute changes language in
Section 2.3 rela ting to the ter m of the fr anchise due t o delays since the initial ordinanc e wa s
submitted.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main
motion, as amended by substitute, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with
the exception of Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”. (#3965)
ORDINANCE - Granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to Cheyenne Light, Fuel and
Power Company, its successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute electricity to the
City and to all persons, businesses, and industry within a portion of the City in Cheyenne Light, Fuel
and Power Company’s Certificated Territory and the r ight to ac quire, construct, install, locate,
maintain, operate and extend into, within and through said City all facilities reasonably necessary
to furnish, sell and distribute electricity within the City and the right to make reasonable use of all
streets and other public places and public ea sements as herein defined as may be necessary; and
fixing the terms and conditions thereof.  Mark Stege, Vice President of Operations for Cheyenne
Light, Fuel and Power, advised he was available to answer any questions.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve on third and  final reading, seconded by Mr. Valde z.  Mr. Brown move d to amend by
substitute ordinance dated 01-11-2013, seconded by Mr. Cook.  City Attorney Dan White advised
the substitute changes language in Section 2.3 relating to the term of the franchise and noted that
ordinance effectiveness would be when all of Section 18 requirements had been met.  Appreciation
was expressed to both Cheyenne Light and High West companies for working together and providing
information.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main
motion, as amended by substitute, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#3966)
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 12.16.020, Planting of certain species of trees and shrubs
in public rights-of-way - Limited, of Chapter 12.16, Trees and Shrubs, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks
and Public Places, of the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the planting of certain trees within the
tree lawn area.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Z oning Map of the Unifie d Development Code,
changing the Zoning Classification from CB Community Business District to MUB Mixed-Use with
Business Emphasis District for Lot 4, Block 486, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
southeast corner of the intersection of Hugur Avenue and E. 12th Street, approximately 500 feet
northwest of the  intersec tion of L ogan Ave nue and N ationway) -- referred to Publi c Servic es
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map of the Unifie d Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from HR-2 High Density Residential – Developing District to
MR-2 Medium Density Residential – Developing District for Lots 1-6, Block 1, and Lots 1-6, Block
2, Diamond Estates, Fourth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corne r of the
intersection of Rio Verde Stree t and Pierce  Av enue) -- r eferred to Publi c Services Committ ee
(sponsor - Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with
Swan Ranch Properties, LLC, Lot One, Block 1, Energy Park One, Laramie County, Wyoming.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5465)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Directing the City Clerk to schedule a Public Hearing pursuant to Section
5.12.040(2) of the Cheyenne City Code to receive public comment on violations of City ordinances
and state laws pertaining to the sa le of a lcoholic beverages, which violations have  occurred at
‘Mingles Bar’ and to provide a notice of said Public Hearing to Stillwater, Inc., dba ‘Mingles Bar’.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5466)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting the combined Cheyenne/Laramie County Hazard Mitigation and
Strategy Plan 2012 -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2013 budget of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown). 
RESOLUTION - Authorizi ng the May or and City  Clerk to execute all docume nts as
necessary to sell three City-owned properties located at 515 Morrie Avenue, 916 East 5  Street andth
922 East 5  Street, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, together with all improvements thereon --th
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).  Mr. Brown advised the item was reviewed
under other items for the agenda at Finance Committee, and provisions of Title 2 of City Code have
been met.  M r. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  D an White, City Attorney,
clarified the properties were previously declared surplus and then sold pursuant to Wyo .Stat. § 15-5-
112 (a), which calls for sealed bids or public auction to dispose of the properties.  He advised these
procedures were followed, but the title company involved in the closing (scheduled for 01/15/2013)
had decided at the last minute that they would like a resolution from the City authorizing the Mayor
and City Clerk to execute the documents, which is the purpose of the resolution and the need to act
on it in a timely manner.  M otion carried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#5467)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-
402 exist for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of the East Half of the East Half of  Section
20 and a portion of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of
Section 21, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located
approximately 1,500 feet north of the intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden Road) -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the Capitol Basin West
Edge Trunk-line Interceptor Project -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown). 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the Lake Minnehaha Water
Quality and Drainage Project, Phase II -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for two traffic signals at 19th
Street and Eva ns Avenue, and 20  Street and Eva ns Avenue -- r eferred to Financ e Committeeth
(sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Prioritizing the City of Cheyenne’s three Grant requests for Mineral Royalty
Capital Construction Account Grant (Chapter 3) applications to the State Loan and Investment Board
for the application deadline of February 21, 2013 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting  an Ag reement, and Author izing the May or to sign a
Contingency & D evelopment Ag reement betwee n parties involved in the Micr osoft Datapla nt
Demonstration Project utilizing Grant funds from the Wyoming Business Council -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Diamond Estates, F ourth Filing, a re plat of a por tion of T ract 316,
Sunnyside Addition, Seventh Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the
intersection of Rio Verde Street and Pierce Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne on behalf of the Cheyenne
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) and Transit Plus for the 2013 Transit Development Plan
for Cheyenne T ransit Prog ram (MPO Planning  funds).  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) car ried
(amount not to exceed $49,926.00). (#5948)
[CA] Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne on behalf of the Cheyenne
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) and Fehr & Peers for 2010 Travel Demand Forecasting
Model Calibration (MPO Planning funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 3 to Cont ract No. 5 496 betwee n the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and Ayres Associates for additional design services for the East Pershing
Boulevard reconstruction project (Phase IV) (2003-2006, 2007-2010 1% Sales Tax, Board of Public
Utilities, Federal Highway Administration funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $106,043.00). (#5496)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-8-13 for furnishing one new 2012-2013 backhoe loader from Titan
Machinery, Cheyenne, WY, for the Concrete Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $99,208.18). 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-7-13 for a contract between the C ity o f C heyenne and Inman
Roofing, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for roof replacement at the Neighborhood Facility Building --
referred to Finance Committee. 
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Jane M. France to the Community Action
of Laramie County, Inc. Board of Directors, to be confirmed January 28, 2013.
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Shane Moore, Charles R. Livermont
and Gale Shenefelt to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed January 28,
2013.
Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King, J r. Holiday on Monday,
January 21, 2013, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the
Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance
Committee will meet Tuesday, January 22, 2013 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will
meet Wednesday, January 23, 2013 at Noon. 
M. Lee Hasenauer, Laramie County Commissioner, requested information on the status of
the annual review of the City’s UDC (Unified Development Code).  Matt Ashby, Planning Services
Director, advised comments have been received from the public, staff and City Council members
and staff is in the process of compiling the comments for the Planning Commission meeting to be
held Feb. 19, 2013.  Mayor Kaysen briefly advised of the process involving the governing body after
the review by the Planning Commission.
Welcome was extended to Amber Ash, M. Lee Hasenauer, and Buck Holmes, Laramie
County Commissioners, who were in attendance at the meeting.
There being  no further  business to come befo re the governing body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:40 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 24, 2013