MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-01-28 | CLIP_ID: 356 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 356

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 January 28, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and
Dan White, City Attorney. 
Mayor Kaysen noted clerical corrections on the numbering of items (2) contained on the first
page of the meeting agenda.  Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]
are considered to be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There
will be no separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Brown moved to approve Consent Agenda
items, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 14, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services ) and vacated Counc il Chambers.  Mr. Va ldez moved to approve pa yment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Upon inquiry, information was provided by Mayor
Kaysen and applicable staff on the following vouchers presented for payment:  Alsco ($1,388.79),
laundry services for  floor mats, shirts, uniforms, etc.; B elfor Property Restoration ($2,468.20),
emergency boarding-up of a n abandoned property located ne ar an elementary school involving
unacceptable activities (City seeking restitution from the prope rty owner); Brown’s Shoe Fit Co.
($249.98), steel-toed safety boots and foot ware (re: employee clothing allowance program approved
for certain departments); Employers Council Services Inc. ($164.63), expenses affiliated with work
place investigation involving a personnel matter; Gametime ($1,725.36), slide replacement in Sun
Valley Park due to v andalism; High West Energy ($25.20), utility (electric) bill for welcome to
Cheyenne sig n a t A rcher I nterchange; Mi ngles L ounge ($ 100.00), re fund of  bu siness l icense
application fee due to non-approval of application; VISA/UMB ($462.66), credit card charge to Bird-
X, Inc. for  decoys to discourag e g eese prese nce in pa rks.  Staff providing  information on the
aforementioned vouchers were: Jim Elias, Public Works Director; Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation
Director; Nathan Beauheim, Acting City Engineer; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Carol Intlekofer,
City Clerk.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 12.16.020, Planting of certain species of trees and shrubs
in public rights-of-way - Limited, of Chapter 12.16, Trees and Shrubs, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks
and Public Places, of the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the planting of certain trees within the
tree lawn area.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and
final re ading, seconde d by Mr. Shanor.  Motion ca rried.  Voting “ yes” - - all member s of the
governing body. (#3967)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map of the Unifie d Development Code,
changing the Zoning Classification from CB Community Business District to MUB Mixed-Use with
Business Emphasis District for Lot 4, Block 486, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
southeast corner of the intersection of Hugur Avenue and E. 12th Street, approximately 500 feet
northwest of the intersection of Logan Avenue and Nationway).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on
second r eading, seconde d by  Mr. Cook.  Upon inquiry, Br andon Cammara ta, Planning a nd
Development Director, advised the a pplicant is planning on upgrades to the residential struc ture
located on the  property and is pursuing  the MUB  classification as it allows more latitude and
provides more certainty for the owner that the residential use can remain.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Of ficial Zoning Map of the Unifie d Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from HR-2 High Density Residential – Developing District to
MR-2 Medium Density Residential – Developing District for Lots 1-6, Block 1, and Lots 1-6, Block
2, Diamond Estates, F ourth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the
intersection of Rio Verde Street and Pierce Avenue).  James Perrott Macneil questioned ownership
of property in the Cheyenne area, and spoke in opposition to zone changes generally.  Mr. Brown
raised a point of order that Mr. Macneil’s comments were not relevant to the motion on the floor.
Mayor Kaysen ruled that comments should remain specific to the zone change affiliated with the
motion.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Map, of the Che yenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from A-1
Agricultural and Rural Residential District to HR-2 High Density Residential – Developing District
for a tract of land situated in a por tion of the East Ha lf of the Ea st Half (E½E½) of Section 20,
T.14N., R. 66W., 6th  P.M ., Che yenne, L aramie Cou nty, Wy oming, to  be  kn own a s Sc enic
Subdivision (located approximately 150 feet west of the intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden
Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting the combined Cheyenne/Laramie County Hazard Mitigation and
Strategy Plan 2012.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5468)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2013 budg et of the Cit y of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5469)
RESOLUTION - Determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-
402 exist for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of the East Half of the East Half of  Section
20 and a portion of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of
Section 21, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located
approximately 1,500 feet north of the intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden Road).  Mr. Allen
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Allen moved to postpone for two weeks (to Feb. 11,
2013), seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion to postpone car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the Capitol Basin West
Edge Trunk-line Interceptor Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5470)
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the Lake Minnehaha Water
Quality and Drainage Project, Phase II.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5471)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for two traffic signals at 19th
Street and Evans Avenue, and 20  Street and Evans Avenue.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.th
(#5472)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Prioritizing the City of Cheyenne’s three Grant requests for Mineral Royalty
Capital Construction Account Grant (Chapter 3) applications to the State Loan and Investment Board
for the application deadline of February 21, 2013.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5473)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting  an Ag reement, and Authoriz ing the  May or to sign a
Contingency & D evelopment Ag reement betwee n parties involved in the Mi crosoft Data plant
Demonstration Project utilizing Grant funds from the Wy oming Business.  Motion (per Co nsent
Agenda) carried. (#5474 Resolution/#5956 Contract)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Water and Sanitary Sewer Service, by User’s Agreement, with
Merrill, Inc., a  Wyoming Cor poration, 47 03 Wri ght C ourt, Ch eyenne, Wyoming -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Outsider User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement,
with Microsoft Corporation, Lot 2, Block 1, North Range Business Park, Fifth Filing, Laramie
County, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez). 
Preliminary Plat for Diamond E states, Fourth Filing , a re plat of a por tion of Trac t 316,
Sunnyside Addition, Seventh Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the
intersection of Rio Verde Street and Pierce Avenue).  James Perrott Macneil spoke in opposition to
the item and questioned whether Section 20 is Union Pacific (U.P.) property or federal property.
Mayor Kaysen clarified the agenda item does not reference a section number and that it is not U.P.
property.  Mr. Allen moved to acknowledge receipt with staff conditions #1 through 4, seconded by
Mr. Cook.  Comment of concern was expressed regarding the development design relative to garage
placements resulting in visual predominance in the neighborhood.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Scenic Subdivision, a tract of land situated in a portion of the East Half
of the Ea st Half (E½E ½) of Sec tion 20, T.14N., R.66W ., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming
(located north of and adjacent to the existing WalMart store) (Annexation in process) -- referred to
Public Services Committee.
Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne on behalf of the Cheyenne
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) and Fehr & Peers for 2010 Travel Demand Forecasting
Model Calibration (MPO Planning funds).  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved
to approve in an amount not to exceed $78,760.00, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Tom
Mason, MPO Director, explained the role of the MPO Policy Committee in budgeting, reviewing
and setting priorities of street projects, and explained that if a  project isn’t funded for a specific
budget year, it may be reconsidered for possible inclusion on a futur e project list.  He noted the
Committee meets annually to discuss the MPO budget as well as on a quarterly basis.  In response
to query concerning the status of Parsley Blvd. being included on a project list relative to a past
study, Mr. Mason advised that a 2004 study looked at the street network generally for all of south
Cheyenne, including this area, and stated that Parsley Blvd. will be looked at in the future in more
detail.  He explained the contract will assist with traffic calibration information.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. L una voting “no”.
(#5953)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5911 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Ayres Associates for additional retaining wall design to stabilize steep
shoreline areas around Lake Minnehaha in Holliday Park (SLIB Grant funding) -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-7-13 for  a contr act between the City of Chey enne and Inman
Roofing, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for roof replacement at the Neighborhood Facility Building.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5954) 
[CA] Authorization to purchase traffic striping paint under Wyoming Department of Transportation
Bid No. 12-325TZ (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office
for RMH Franchise Corporation d/b/a Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill & Ba r, 1401 Dell Range
Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Concord Neighborhood Corporation d/b/a
Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill & Bar, 1401 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Appointment of Jane M. France to the Community Action of Laramie County, Inc. Board of
Directors.  Mr. Brown moved to approved, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral
appointment).

Re-Appointments of Shane Moore, Charles R. Livermont and Gale Shenefelt to the Mayor’s
Council for People with Disabilities.  Mr. Br own moved to appr oved, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made  of the Re- Appointments of Mal R. Bur nside, Marty Crowe,
Michael A. Metzler, and  Jason Stephen to the Contractor Licensing Board; and William C. Beaman
to the Ci ty of Cheyenne, Wyoming-Laramie County, State of Wy oming Joint Powers B oard for
Frontier Park improvements, to be confirmed February 11, 2013.
Announcement was ma de of the  Appointment of J ohn G. Kneppe r to the B oard of
Adjustment, to be confirmed February 11, 2013. 
Under other business, Ja mes Perrott Macneil spoke in opposition to any  development or
encroachment on any U.P properties or the Belvoir Ranch.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting was
officially adjourned at 6:40 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 February 7, 2013
 