MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-02-11 | CLIP_ID: 358 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 358

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 February 11, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms.
Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Allen moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by Dr. Rinne.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Special Me eting of the Gove rning Body on J anuary 28, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on J anuary 28, 2013.  Mo tion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Mr. L una.  U pon inquiry regarding a vouche r payable to Child Support
Services, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, clarified these are deductions from employee pay checks pursuant
to court issued garnishments.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Huff and Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director,
provided information on hockey referee services and number of games involved relative to vouchers
payable to Michael Cote ($245) and Tim McGuire ($425).  Mr. Parish advised hockey leagues have
different pay schedules between score keepers and referees, and reviewed those leagues whose players
travel for games.  In response to inquiry, Ms. Huff provided information available on a voucher payable
to Cowboy Supply House ($677.30) for trash can liners.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Zoning  Map Amendme nt, Section 5.1.2 Z oning
Districts E stablished, and Sec tion 5.1.3 Official Z oning Ma p of the Unifie d Deve lopment Code,
changing the Zoning Classification from CB Community Business District to MUB Mixed-Use with
Business Emphasis District for Lot 4, Block 486, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
southeast corner of the intersec tion of Hug ur Avenue and E. 12th S treet, approxim ately 500 fee t
northwest of the  intersec tion of L ogan Ave nue and N ationway).  Reporting  for Public S ervices
Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#3968)
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1 Zoning  Map Amendme nt, Section 5.1.2  Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Of ficial Z oning Ma p of the Unifie d Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from HR-2 High Density Residential – Developing District to MR-2
Medium Density Residential – Developing District f or Lots 1-6, Bloc k 1, and L ots 1-6, Bloc k 2,
Diamond Estates, F ourth Filing , Chey enne, Wy oming (located at the southwest cor ner of  the
intersection of Rio Verde Street and Pierce Avenue).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final
reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body. (#3969)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Zoning Map,
of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from A-1 Agricultural
and Rural Residential District to HR-2 High Density Residential – Developing District for a tract of
land situated in a portion of the East Half of the East Half (E½E½) of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th
P.M., Chey enne, L aramie County , Wy oming, to be know n as Scenic  Su bdivision (located
approximately 150 fee t west of the inter section of Conver se Avenue and Ogden Road).  B randon
Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, advised additional information was received on this
date from Scenic Development Group relative to this item as well as agenda item #20(a) (Preliminary
Plat), and stated the Group has requested a letter be read into the record on its behalf as they were not
able to attend the meeting (letter on file with Planning and Development and City Clerk offices).  Upon
inquiry by Mayor Kaysen to members of the governing body and there being no objection raised, Mayor
Kaysen re quested Mr. Cam marata re ad the letter  submitt ed by Scenic De velopment Group.  Mr .
Cammarata read the letter (dated Feb. 11, 2013) which explained Scenic Development’s position that
it may not be able to move forward with its apartment project as they are not the land owners of the
parcel and conditions that are being recommended by the Public Services Committee, associated with
the pr eliminary plat, are no t a greeable to t he la nd ow ner ( i.e. Co le fa mily).  Ca sey Pa lma, St eil
Surveying Services, agent for the applicant, Scenic Development, encouraged Council members to
review the conditions being recommended for appropriateness, and suggested that perhaps there might
be some wa y to find a flexible compromi se between the par ties.  Ed Murra y commented on the
preliminary plat with Mr. Allen raising a point of order that discussion should remain pertinent to the
zoning classific ation item. May or Ka ysen re quested Mr. Murra y provide his comments on the
preliminary plat when that item would be on the floor later in the meeting.  Mr. Allen reported there was
no recommendation on the item from the Public Services Committee.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Comment followed regarding discussion at the Public Services
Committee meeting regarding wording in S ection 7. of the ordinance which reads: “ ... That this
ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon its approval and publication and upon the official filing
of the affiliated Scenic Subdivision final plat map with the County Clerk and Ex-Officio Register of
Deeds for Laramie County, Wyoming.”  Mr. Allen moved to amend Section 7. to read as follows,
seconded by Mr. Luna:  “ ... That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon its approval and
publication and  upon the approval and publication of an ordinance annexing said property.”  Discussion
followed and included the following topics: Customary agenda procedure involving annexation, zoning
and platting items that are affiliated, and concerns that the usual procedure was not being followed for
the Scenic Development items; support for the apartment project; timing of actions to be taken on the
zoning classification relative to a nnexation and preliminary /final plat; support for a nd against the
proposed amendment, and possible postponement of the item.  During discussion and upon inquiry, Mr.
Cammarata provided information pertaining to a previously adopted resolution determining conditions
for annexation had been met (re: Scenic Development project property) relative to delayed introduction
of the annexation ordinance.  Motion to amend failed (due to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr.
Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” --  Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Comments followed in non-support of the zone cha nge due to the
failed motion to amend and changing the zone classification prior to the property being annexed, and
timing of actions to enable annexation and the zone change to be completed together.  Upon inquiry,
Mr. Palma advised general discussions have been held on whether a property to be annexed should have
the zoning determined prior to annexation, and expressed his opinion that it would be appropriate to
either postpone the item or deny it and resubmit it with the final plat.  Main motion failed.  Voting “no”
-- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Sec tion 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Z oning
Districts established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential District to MR-2
Medium Density Residential – Developing District for a tract of land situated in a portion the East Half
of the East Half (E½E½) of Section 20 and a portion of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter
of the Northwest Quarter (SW¼ SW¼ NW¼) of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M ., Cheyenne,
Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as the Bluffs, 9  Filing (located approximately 1,500 feetth
north of the intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from P Public to NB Neighborhood Business for Lot 1, Block
4, Storey Boulevard Extension, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Converse Avenue,
approximately one-quarter mile south of Storey Boulevard) -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
RESOLUTION - Determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402
exist for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of the East Half of the East Half of  Section 20 and
a portion of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 21,
Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located approximately
1,500 feet north of the intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden Road) (postponed from 1-28-13).
James Perrot Macneil commented in opposition to all annexations, i ncluding any property he or the
Union Pacific owns.  Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Allen moved to postpone
to March 11, 2013, seconded by Mr. Brown.  It was noted postponement is at the request of the
applicant.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Water and Sanitary Sewer Service, by User’s Agreement, with
Merrill, Inc., a Wyoming Corporation, 4703 Wright Court, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5475)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Outsider User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with
Microsoft Corporation, Lot 2, Block 1, North Range Business Park, Fifth Filing, Laramie County,
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5476)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the  Fisca l Year  2013 budg et of the Cit y of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor
-- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Directing the City Attorney to petition the First Judicial District Co urt,
Laramie County, Wyoming, for an order suspending, for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, Retail
Liquor License No. 39 issued by the City of Cheyenne to Stillwater, Inc., dba ‘Mingles Bar’ -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the Cheyenne Area Street Enhancement Toolbox -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the West Lincolnway Streetscape plans (landscape and fence) --
referred to  Pub lic Ser vices Co mmittee (s ponsors - - M r. Al len, Ms.  Broyles, Mr . V aldez an d M s.
Williams).
Preliminary Plat for Scenic Subdivision, a tract of land situated in a portion of the East Half of
the East Half (E½E½) of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located
north of and adjacent to the existing WalMart store) (Annexation in process).  Ed Murray, vicinity
landowner, spoke in opposition to approval of the preliminary plat.  He expressed his concerns with the
proposed Scenic development pa rcel as submitted by  the prope rty owner in conjunction with the
annexation application; convoluted procedure involving the parcel’s affiliated annexation, zoning and
platting processes, and lack of communication by the property owner (Cole family) and failure to look
at comprehensive and “big picture” planning for the area.  He reviewed his further concerns relative to
Exhibit D, network transportation plan involving the area, that was submitted with the initial annexation
application, stating the transpor tation plan ref lected in th e exhibit is  inconsistent with the Master
Transportation Plan incorporated into the Cit y’s PlanCheyenne.  During his comments, Mr. Murra y
displayed and referred to an enlar ged copy of Exhibi t D (map) a nd a diagram depicting the Master
Transportation Plan map portion from PlanCheyenne for the area, and discussed north-south and east-
west collector roads in Section 20.  He noted that the north-south collector road reflects the extension
of Rue Terre north to Storey Blvd., and that specific land uses (zoning classifications) affecting the
Murray property, as currently depicted in PlanCheyenne, show an emphasis on mixed use commercial
and mixed use residential.  Describing the Murray property as “the donut hole” situated at the cross-
roads of the collector roads, Mr. Murray stated that changing the City’s transportation network plan, as
proposed by the property  owner pursuant to Exhi bit D, will have a de trimental effect on Murr ay
property development plans.  He explained his failed attempts to discuss the issues with the property
owner; spoke in support of proper community growth and good community stewardship, and noted the
City’s vested financial interests in Storey Ave. and Converse Ave. roadway extensions and associated
infrastructure.  He indicated that a recent Exhibit C, submitted by the applicant for the preliminary plat,
has resulted in three staff conditions being proposed in conjunction with the preliminary plat.  In
concluding his comments, Mr. Murray provided copies of Section 4.3.2, Transportation Network Plan,
contained in the City’s Unified Development Code (UDC), reciting the wording outlined in Section a.,
General Requirements, and provisions # 1. 3. and 4.; stated his opinion that compliance with the rules
of the UDC have not been met, and reiterated his opposition to approval of the preliminary plat.  Ed
Cole, Cole family, landowner, advised that what Scenic Development is proposing makes no difference
on how the final transportation plan is adopted for Section 20.  He briefly reviewed history of the City’s
acquisition of property from the Cole family along Storey and Converse, noting the City allowed four
entrances into the land, one of which involves the Scenic Development area, and that planning staff now
want to allow two other entrances, which was not part of the original plan.  He advised the Cole family
and City staff do not agree on the way the streets should be aligned; commented on the slow ra te of
commercial development in the area, and spoke in f avor of the quality project proposed by Scenic
Development and that it is a g ood project for the City , noting the time a nd money that Scenic ha s
invested.  He stated his belief that the street alignment issue does not make any difference in whether
this is approved.  Casey Palma, Steil Surveying Services, clarified there are four proposed conditions
attached with the recommendation on the preliminary plat and that one of the conditions should address
some concerns as it is a revision to the traffic impact study and analysis.  He advised that Scenic is
favorable to re vising the tra nsportation impact study and networ k plan prior to the f inal plat being
submitted.  Mr. Murray clarified his previous comments were made to specifically address concerns
involving the project area as well as for betterment of the community through comprehensive area
planning that includes the transportation network, instead of piecemeal incremental developments.
James Perrot Macneil spoke in opposition to t he preliminary plat as the prope rty has not y et been
annexed, and against all community development generally.  Mr. Allen moved to acknowledge receipt
of the preliminary plat with staff conditions #1 through 3 as listed in the 02-01-2013 memo from the
City Planning and Development Department, and requiring a revised Traffic Impact Study to provide
consistency with the Transportation Network as required under Section 4.3.2 (re: UDC), seconded by
Mr. Brown.  Comments followed regarding the convoluted nature of issues and procedures involving
development of the property; landowners’ and developers’ reliance on PlanCheyenne and the UDC
(ordinance) tra nsportation require ments; sugg estion that customary  vs. non-customary  proce dures
involving the process affiliated with preliminary plats, annexations and zone chang es be reviewed;
concerns with preliminary plat issues; support for Scenic Development’s housing (apartment) project
and its benefi t to the City; PlanCheyenne as a compre hensive plan a nd possible plan chang es for
flexibility; rec ognition of validity  of staff  conce rns; co llector stre et plans g enerally; increme ntal
development, and approval of the preliminary plat providing an opportunity for the developer to move
forward with its project.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mr. Valdez voting “no”.
[CA] Preliminary Plat for The Bluffs, 9  Filing, a tract of land situated in a portion the East Half ofth
the East Half (E½E½) of Section 20 and a portion of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter
of the Northwest Quarter (SW¼ SW¼ NW¼) of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne,
Laramie County, Wyoming (Annexation in process) (located approximately 1,500 feet north of the
intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Use Agreement to permit Level 3 Communications, LLC, limited use of the public right-of-way
for the installation of f iber optic c ommunications systems and setting  a fe e -- referred to Financ e
Committee.
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd No el Griffith, J r. &
Associates A rchitects for the provision of sc hematic de sign, de sign development, c onstruction
documents, bidding documents, bidding assistance and construction management for the Municipal
Pool Renovation and Expansion Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and DHM Design Corporation
for the provision of schematic design, design development, construction documents, bidding documents
and bidding assistance for the Converse Softball Complex Renovation project (Menard property sale
proceeds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5911 be tween the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Ayres Associates for additional retaining wall design to stabilize steep
shoreline areas around Lake Minnehaha in Holliday Park (SLIB Grant funding).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $21,680.00). (#5911)
[CA] Authorization to purchase traffic striping paint under Wyoming Department of Transportation
Bid No. 12-325TZ (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to
exceed $37,127.10).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-17-13 for furnishing two new medium/heavy duty transit buses with
wheelchair lifts for the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department, Transit Division (partial State
Loan and Investment Board and Wyoming Department of Transportation funds) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-19-13 for furnishing ballistic vests for the Police De partment from
Skaggs Uniforms, Salt L ake City , Utah (Misce llaneous F ederal Gra nts) -- ref erred to Fina nce
Committee.
Appointment of John G. Knepper to the Board of Adjustment. Dr. Rinne move d to approve,
seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Re-Appointments of Mal R. Burnside, Marty Crowe, Michael A. Metzler, and  Jason Stephen
to the Contractor Licensing Board; and William C. Beaman to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming-Laramie
County, State of Wyoming Joint Powers Board for Frontier Park improvements.  Dr. Rinne  moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
 
[CA] Request to approve , pursuant to Wy o. Stat. §12-5-402 (b ), a sponsor relationship betwee n
Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc. and Miller/Coors, a malt beverage industry representative, in conjunction
with the 2013, 2014 and 2015 annual Cheyenne Frontier Days community event -- referred to Finance
Committee.                                            
Announcement was made of the appointments of Earl B. Kincheloe to the Cheyenne Housing
Authority Board; Beth Pratt to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities, and Nicholas Pickering
to the Building Code Board of Appeals, to be confirmed February 25, 2013.
Announcement was made that due to the Presidents’ Holiday on Monday, February 18, 2013,
regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the Municipal Building,
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Financ e Committee will meet
Tuesday, February 19, 2013 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet W ednesday,
February 20, 2013 at Noon.
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, February 25, 2013 at 6:00
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for renewal of existing City
liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, and microbrewery permits)
filed with the City Clerk’s Office.
Under other business:
Tom Lindsey commented on lack of development of the “downtown hole” off of Lincolnway
and suggested a multi-purpose building be built on the sit e, including an underground parking area,
which could house a health food restaurant, office space, short and long term housing, and outdoor area
on the top of the building for activities and possibly a garden area.
Dennis Pa checo spo ke in s upport of  de veloping the  “ downtown h ole”, a nd dis cussed h is
concerns with poor road conditions within the City.  He specifically referenced the vicinity of Pershing
Blvd. and Logan Ave. as an example.  Mayor Kaysen provided information on street improvements at
19th/20th and Converse t hat will begin this sum mer and extend west to the ceme tery complex on
Pershing, and noted ther e are also plans for improveme nts on Logan as funding becomes available.
Comment was made thanking Mr. Pacheco for expressing his concerns.
County Commission Chairman Troy Thompson was recognized as being in attendance at the
meeting.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 7:28  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 February 21, 2013
 