MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-02-25 | CLIP_ID: 361 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 361

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 February 25, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms.
Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Rinne
and Ms. Broyles, agenda item #11 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  U pon request by Ms.
Broyles and pursua nt to  support received by Mr. B rown and Dr. Rinne, ag enda item #15( c) was
removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Brown and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Allen and Ms. Broyles, agenda item #15(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Allen
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 11, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Shanor moved to c hange the a genda order of the day  to bri ng forward Item #14(a), a
proposed preliminary plat, immediately prior to Item #8 to allow for consecutive discussion and action
affiliated with an ordinance on second reading for re-zoning the property (Item #8) pertaining to The
Bluffs, 9  Filing, located a pproximately 1,500 fee t north of t he intersection of Conver se Ave. andth
Ogden Road, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mayor Kaysen clarified debate on the motion was limited to
topic of the motion only.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to Chase Park Grants,
LLC, Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, advised Chase Park services were obtained to write grant
applications and submit them on behalf  of the City  and that funding  awarded is assisting  with the
Capitol Basin West Edge Project.  It was noted that seeking additional funding opportunities leverages
6  penny sales tax dollars for the project.  Mr. Ashby provided information on the dollar amount ofth
grants that have been awarded to date through Chase Park’s efforts.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote,
Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for renewal of existing
City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, and microbrewery
permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  William Overling expressed concerns regarding renewal
of the retail liquor license held by Cadillac Ranch Bar, Inc. and cited Wyo. Stat. §12-4-104(b)(i), which
states that if evidence is presented at the hearing that the welfare of the people residing in the vicinity
of the proposed license premises shall be adversely affected then the license should not be renewed.
He advised he and other residents in the neighborhood adjacent to the bar have issues with noise levels,
citing EPA levels; parking congestion, including vehicle lights; lack of signage directing bar patrons
to an off-site nearby parking area; debris found in their yards and on the streets; fighting, vandalism,
and undesirable activities by bar customers affecting the area.  He reviewed incidences where police
officers have had to respond, and submitted a petition signe d by residents in the area requesting the
liquor license for Cadillac Ranch either be revoked or not be renewed.  Kevin Beers, President, Cadillac
Ranch Bar, reviewed past communications he has had with Mr. Overling and residents in the vicinity
and stated his openness to further communications; advised he has voluntarily met with police officers
regularly to ensure  c ompliance with laws and stated he is trying to be a good neighbor.  He further
reviewed noise level testing conducted by police officers, noting it has never exceeded the allowable
decibel levels, and explained that during activities surrounding last year’s Cheyenne Frontier Days time
frame he ha d cancelled plans for a band to per form outside of the building  due to neig hborhood
concerns.  In response to Mr. Over ling’s comments, he stated he  is looking into installing a sound
barrier to help with vehicle lights and noise issues, noting cost expense and referencing a raised fence
he had previously built to help address complaints, and that corrections to signage informing patrons
of the off-site parking area will be made.  He stated he is sensitive to neighbors’ concerns and is trying
to rectify them, however, he has no control over patrons and their activities after the business closes and
they are off the premises.  Rebecca Schwab and Stephanie Forney, advising they live in close proximity
to the bar, each discussed their concerns the bar’s effect has had on the neighborhood.  Topics discussed
included: Fighting, parking and noise issues; undesirable activities and concerns affecting their family
and personal property, and the notification process when the bar was first approved for its license.  Mike
Dieters, r epresentative of  Pr evention Ma nagement o f L aramie Cou nty a nd local su bstance a buse
professional, discussed social alcohol influence factors affecting underage drinking, and family and
individual effects of alcohol abuse.  Upon inquiry regarding violations within the past year at D.T.’s
lounge on Lincolnway, Officer Steve Neisen, Cheyenne Police Department, advised compliance issues,
including better signage involving designated smoking areas (per city code), have been corrected by the
owner.  Co mment followed on underage sales compliance checks and inquiry was made whether
licensee representatives were present at the meeting for the following establishments:  Albany, Old
Chicago, Keg ‘n Kork, A nderson’s Other Corne r, Redwood, Scooter s, D.T.’s Liquormart, Re-o-na
Sushi Restaurant, and Olive Garden.  Bryan Grzegorczyk, Redwood Lounge owner, acknowledged
failure of an underage service compliance check at the establishment, and explained th e i ncident
involved mistaken identity of a customer by staff and that the employee has been re-trained.  Upon
inquiry regarding compliance check failures at Re-o-na Sushi Restaurant, Officer Niesen advised he met
with the manag er, noting a lang uage barrier affected previous communications, and stated a lcohol
server training requirements had been further explained and employees are now TIPS trained.  Upon
inquiry regarding the building occupancy capacity within the Cadillac Ranch Bar, Mr. Beers advised
Fire Dept. staff have checked the capacity level and he explained how the occupancy level is monitored.
There being no further comments or discussion, Mayor Kaysen stated the purpose of the public hearing
had been met and referred the renewals to Finance Committee for review.  He noted the Committee will
meet on Monday, March 4 at 11:00 a.m. in Room 122, Municipal Building.
Preliminary Plat for The Bluffs, 9  Filing, a tract of land situated in a portion the East Half ofth
the East Half (E½E½) of Section 20 and a portion of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter
of the Northwest Quarter (SW¼ SW¼ NW¼) of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M ., Cheyenne,
Laramie County, Wyoming (Annexation in process) ( located approximately 1,500 feet north of the
intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden Road).  Due to a family relationship, Dan White, City
Attorney, declared a conflict of legal interest and excused himself from the dais, noting that any legal
advice requested for the preliminary plat (Agenda Item #14(a)) as well as two subsequent ordinances
on the agenda (Agenda Items #8 and #9) would be provided by John Ridge, Deputy City Attorney.  Mr.
White then vacated Council Ch ambers wi th M r. Rid ge joi ning the  g overning bo dy on  the  da is.
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen stated there was no recommendation on the item
from the Committee.  Mr. Allen moved to deny acknowledgment of the preliminary plat, seconded by
Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential District to MR-2
Medium Density Residential – Developing District for a tract of land situated in a portion the East Half
of the East Half (E½E½) of Section 20 and a portion of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter
of the Northwest Quarter (SW¼ SW¼ NW¼) of Section 21, T.1 4N., R.66W., 6th P.M., C heyenne,
Laramie County, Wyoming, to be know n as the B luffs, 9  Filing (located approximately 1,500 feetth
north of the intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden Road).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Comments followed on procedural concerns with approving the
zone change prior to anne xation of the prope rty being completed.  Mr. A llen moved to amend by
changing the wording contained in Section 7. to read as follows, seconded by Mr. Shanor: “ ... That this
ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon its approval and publication and upon successful filing
of a n a nnexation or dinance wi th t he Cou nty Cle rk a nd Ex- officio R egister o f D eeds fo r Laramie
County, Wyoming.”  Discussion followed and inc luded the following: Procedur al order of a ctions
involving affiliated agenda items pertaining to annexations, re-zoning, preliminary plats, and final plats;
amendment allowing the re-zoning ordinance to move forward and be “in the wings” when annexation
becomes effective; comments in support as well as non-support of the amendment; concerns with
approving a zone change prior to annexation and affiliated plat actions and taking re-zoning action when
future annexation and development may not occur, and linking annexation and zoning actions together
time-wise.  Upon inquiry, Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, advised at this time staff has not
weighed-in on a definite position on having the zone change effective with a pending/future annexation,
and raised a concern that, potentially, a zone change could be “hanging out there” for a long period of
time without annexation moving forward in a timely manner.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Brown, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen
voting “no”.  Comment was made that, hopefully, affiliated platting issues could be worked out.  Main
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from P Public to NB Neighborhood Business for Lot 1, Block
4, Storey Boulevard Extension, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Converse Avenue,
approximately one-quarter mile south of Storey Boulevard).  Mike Langhoff commented that when the
current owners acquired the property they were aware of the public zoning classification, and stated he
was opposed to the zone change.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Comments followed regarding the need to change the zoning as the property is no longer
owned by a public entity.  Upon inquiry, John Ridge, Deputy City Attorney, stated his belief that the
zoning classification should be changed, noting that without making a change results in no property
value being realized by the developer/owner.  Mayor Kaysen clarified the purpose of a “P” public zone
is for properties owned by the City or public entity .  Upon inq uiry, Matt Ashby, Planning Services
Director, verified within the code ( i.e. Section 5.6.1(c), Unified Development Code), the context of
Public District Standards states “If property or a portion of property with this classification is sold or
transferred to a nongovernmental entity, the classification shall be changed before the property can be
utilized.”  It was noted the property, previously owned by the City, is now owned by a consortium of
private investors.  Reference was made to a past attempt to cha nge the property’s zone type by the
investors and that the proposed change to neighborhood business may be more appealing to the vicinity.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Luna
voting “no”.  Mr. Ridge vacated the dais and Mayor Kaysen noted for the record that Mr. White had
resumed his seat on the dais.
RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the  Fisca l Year  2013 budg et of the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5477)
RESOLUTION - D irecting the  City  At torney to p etition th e First Judicial D istrict Co urt,
Laramie County, Wyoming, for an order suspending, for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, Retail
Liquor License No. 39 issued by the City of Cheyenne to Stillwater, Inc., dba ‘Mingles Bar’.  Anthony
Reyes, attorney with the law firm of Riske and Salisbury, representing Stillwater, Inc., advised since
the Finance Committee meeting negotiations through City staff and the City Attorney’s office have been
held and a settlement agreement has been reached.  He stated by reaching the agreement, the licensee
certainly does not condone underage drinking and they are not trying to skirt their responsibilities in any
way, and that by entering into the agreement it is more economical to Mingles and the City than to
proceed with a District Court hearing.  Mr. Reyes noted that under the provisions of the agreement,
Mingles Bar will close completely for 2 consecutive weeks, which is a substantial financial hardship,
and would then be on probation for 6 months.  He further advised that Mingles voluntarily initiated a
partial (bar area) business closure on Feb. 1 and 2 to provide alcohol server re-training to its staff; that
a new person has been hired to review surveillance tapes relative to legal age sales compliance, and that
all employees associated with the violations have been terminated.  Mr. Reyes requested approval of
a substitute resolution, which addr esses the set tlement agreement, and expressed his belief tha t the
compromise was fair to both parties, stating that rather than being an adversary in court the licensee
wants to partner with the City to curb underage drinking.  Upon inquiry, he reviewed a provision of the
agreement addressing any future c itations for violations of Wy oming Statutes or municipal c odes
regarding underage sales, possession or consumption in or upon the premises of Mingles Bar, which
would make the settlement agreement null and void, and advised all employees were sent to TIPS re-
training on Feb. 5 .  He clarified that the former manager is still part owner of the business but is notth
involved in day-to-day operations.  Upon inquiry, he provided information on the number of employees
the business has and t heir duties; type of se curity and over sight in plac e (i.e. cameras, doormen,
managers); identification scanners that are being researched for acquisition to assist, in addition to
visual inspection of proof of identification, in detecting false I.D.s, and time frame when the owners
became aware that their liquor license ma y be in troubl e due to t he number of violations that had
occurred.  Upon inquiry, Terry Wilson, one of the owners of Mingles, advised the building occupancy
capacity of the bar is over 100 persons; that karaoke music is sometimes held on Fri. and Sat. nights;
confirmed that during the 2 week closure the entire establishment would be closed; reviewed elements
of identification scanners that are being researched for compatibility with such issues as military and
out-of-state I.D.’s; noted his potential openness to the possibility of hiring off-duty police officers on
the weekends; provided information on individuals comprising corporate ownership of the business,
and explained what entailed a draft beer special as advertised on the business’ website.  Reporting for
Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend
by substitute resolution which includes a propose d settlement ag reement referenced as Exhibit A,
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry, Mr. White provided a summarization of settlement agreement
provisions in which Mingles would voluntarily close all operations for 14 consecutive days, and which
addresses the scenario of any future violations regarding sales to or possession by an underage person
within the designated time frames set out in the agreement that could result in the City moving forward
with a District Court filing to request suspension of the license for a period of not more than 30 days.
Mr. White confirmed that pr ovisions of the ag reement perta in to both the bar a nd packa ge store
operations.  Chief Brian Kozak, Cheyenne Police Dept., commented that the violation restrictions in
the proposed a greement perta in to underag e alc ohol violat ions and not all laws involving liquor.
Discussion followed and inc luded the following topics: Zero tolerance involving underage sales by
licensees; h ow t he t ime frame for b usiness cl osure wa s d etermined; co ncern wi th n egotiating a
settlement involving violations of law; support for as well as against the proposed amendment involving
a settlement agreement; agreement providing for an immediate penalty vs. time frame involving a court
process and unknown ce rtainty of any  penalty that may  be i mposed through a cour t decision, and
procedural scenario if the r esolution as orig inally submitt ed, and not  the substitute, was adopted.
During discussion and upon inquiry, Mr. White confirmed that if the resolution as originally presented
was passed and a petition seeking suspension was fil ed with District Court, and assuming the court
agreed and an order was issued suspending the liquor license for a specified time frame, Mingles could
continue to remain open during the suspension time frame and conduct non-liquor related business
operations.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Reyes advised Mingles would not be willing to agree to change wording
in the agreement to indicate that violations include any violation of City ordinance, explaining that since
underage alcohol sales infractions is the issue that has put Mingles in the current situation to begin with,
the proposed violation provisions in the agreement is what has been agreed upon.  Discussion continued
on the 2 consecutive week closure; effects of any violation under the terms of the agreement; whether
approving of an agreement would be setting a precedent; identifying an effective deterrent as a penalty
and handling any future similar activity by other licensees on an individual basis; whether a different
closure time period would be considered by the licensee; unknown consequences involving pursuit of
a court filing, and the agreement negotiation process and involved parties.  During discussion and upon
inquiry, Mr. Reyes stated that during negotiation discussions the dates for the 2 week closure time frame
(March 18 thru March 31, 2013) we re requested by Mingles and they are not willing to chang e the
decided upon time frame at this time.  Upon inquiry whether any communication had been made with
District Court, Mr. W hite verified there has bee n no communication as it is inappropriate  for a ny
discussion on the matter to be held with a district court judge due to the potential filing that might be
before them in court.  Mayor Kaysen provided information that negotiations were conducted between
respective legal counsel for each party, and Mr. White reviewed the history of the negotiations held with
Mingles and how the proposed settlement was reached.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook and Ms. Williams voting
“no”.  Main motion to adopt as a mended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. (#5478)
Following a brief recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:20 p.m.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the Cheyenne Area Street Enhancement Toolbox.  Mot ion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5479)
RESOLUTION - A pproving the West L incolnway Streetscape plans (la ndscape and fe nce).
Darren Rudloff, Visit Cheyenne, spoke in support of the planned enhancements, noting the location as
a major gateway entrance into the community and major business improvements that have occurred over
the past few years, and advised the project has the support of many entities and organizations, such as
U.P.R.R., WYDOT, Visit Cheyenne, Cheyenne LEADS, Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, Boys and
Girls Club and Ty rrell-Doyle.  He a dvised of outside funding and assistance pa rticipation and
commented that the City’s portion for annual maintenance expenses is estimated to be $11,000.  Dale
Steenbergen, President/CEO, Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, stated that many individuals
have been working on this project for several years and expressed concern with a proposed amendment
to the resolution that would reduce the amount of landscaping.  He spoke in support of maintaining the
original amount of landsca ping, noting the C ity should meet the same r equirements as it places on
others when improving or developing property, and commented on West Lincolnway being “the front
door” to the community.  Gene Burchett, chair, Kiwanis Landscape Committee, provided a brief history
of the Committee and s poke in support of the proje ct and the ne ed to complete Phase  I  of the
enhancements.  He noted there is a prospect of more money for the project through grant opportunities.
Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Allen moved to amend to include the condition
that the proposed living landscape area to be maintained by the City be reduced by 75%, seconded by
Mr. Shanor.  It was noted funding for the plan is related to another agenda item (re: Agreement with
WYDOT for West Lincolnway Project) that will be discussed at the next Finance Committee meeting.
Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, spoke in support of community beautification projects but
advised the department needs funding dollars in order to maintain the project, citing other projects
involving right-of-way beautification that have resulted in personnel and maintenance costs and involve
such areas as fencing, trash pickup, traffic poles, signs, and curbs and gutters.  Upon inquiry pertaining
to estimated annual City maintenance costs, contained in a February 15, 2013 letter from Tom Mason,
Director, Metrop olitan Transportation Org anization, to C ouncil members, Mr. Par ish advised the
department’s budget has remained stagnant for many years and provided information on the different
areas and volume of acres the department maintains that involve personnel and equipment.  He noted
the department has adapted and adjusted procedures in many ways to meet needs and that several
maintenance areas are the result of other department projects involving beautification of rights-of-way.
Mr. Burchett submitted letters [on file with City Clerk’s office] from the Boy Scout Council and Boys
and Girls Club offering their assistance to the City with picking up trash and weeding within the project
area.  Mr. Steenber gen re iterated his support on maintaining the initial level of la ndscaping and
encouraged maintenance funding be committed for the g ood of the c ommunity.  Upon in quiry, Mr.
Parish provided information on Parks and Recreation department staffing levels.  Discussion included
support for the project overall and beautification of the City’s entryways; appreciation for community
involvement; prioritization of maintenance funding, and concern with on-going funding.  Motion to
amend failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of th e governing body.  Discussion on the main motion
followed a nd, upon inquiry, included informa tion by  May or Ka ysen that the a rea proposed f or
beautification is part of WYDOT’s right-of-way, who has jurisdictional authority, and that WYDOT,
the City and many community members have taken the initiative to work on planning the beautification
efforts for many years.  Motion to approve carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.
(#5480)
Use Agreement to permit Level 3 Communications, LLC, limited use of the public right-of-way
for the installation of fiber optic communications systems and setting a fee.  M r. Brown moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised that due to an oversight the original agreement did
not include insurance provisions and that the substitute contains that language which will protect the
City.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as
amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5963)
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the C ity of C heyenne a nd Noel Gr iffith, J r. &
Associates A rchitects for the provision of sc hematic de sign, de sign de velopment, cons truction
documents, bidding documents, bidding assistance and construction management for the Municipal
Pool Renovation and Expansion Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $639,550.00). (#5964)
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and DHM Design Corporation
for the provision of schematic design, design development, construction documents, bidding documents
and bidding assistance for the Converse Softball Complex Renovation project (Menard property sale
proceeds).  F rank Cole c ommented on the nee d for sidew alks, curbs a nd gutters along portions of
Converse a nd Airport Parkw ay to be included in the plan a nd that fenc e adjustments and a rea
landscaping a lso be incorpor ated a s oth er private de velopments requir e.  Rick Parish, Parks a nd
Recreation Director, advised the City  currently does not have  a plan f or the e ntire area, noting the
agreement is for design for the complex, and that a past master plan that was prepared is the property
of the Cheyenne Extreme Softball group.  Mr. Brown raised a point of order questioning whether a
motion was on the floor with May or Kaysen stating no motion had y et been made and asking for a
motion before disc ussion continued .  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove in a n amount not to ex ceed
$119,843.00, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Comments followed in support of the project.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5965)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Umpires Association to provide umpire
services for the 2013, 2014 and 2015 Softball Seasons (softball registration revenue) -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement for Juvenile Compliance and Diversion Officer Services between Laramie County,
the City of Cheyenne, and the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for
reimbursement of dual-commissioned Juvenile Diversion Officer’s salary (Federal Office of Juvenile
Justice and Delinquency Prevention Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the Wyoming Department of Transportation and the City of Cheyenne for
the West Lincolnway Project (Wyoming Department of Transportation funding) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Real Estate Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and W. E. Dinneen, Inc., for the
purchase of real estate  located at 405 West 18  Street, 1704 Pioneer Avenue, 410 West 17  Street, andth th
416 West 17  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming (1% Specific Purpose Sales & U se Tax) -- referred toth
Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 5956, Contingency and Development Agreement,  between
the City of Cheyenne and parties involved in the Microsoft Dataplant Demonstration Project to effect
a date change -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-17-13 for furnishing two new medium/heavy duty transit buses with
wheelchair lifts for the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department, Transit Division (partial State
Loan and Investment Board and Wyoming Department of Transportation funds).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (accept bid submitted by Creative Bus Sales, Phoenix, AZ in an amount not to exceed
$193,786.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-19-13 for f urnishing ballistic vests for the  Police Department from
Skaggs Uniforms, Salt Lake City, Utah (Miscellaneous Federal Grants).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $35,596.50).
Appointments of Earl B. Kincheloe to the Cheyenne Housing Authority Board; Beth Pratt to the
Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities, and Nicholas Pickering to the Building Code Board of
Appeals.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the g overning b ody with the exception of May or Kaysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointments).
[CA] Request to approve , pursuan t to Wyo. Stat. §12-5-402 (b), a  sponsor rela tionship between
Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc. and Miller/Coors, a malt beverage industry representative, in conjunction
with the 2013, 2014 and 2015 annual Cheyenne Frontier Days community event.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Under other business:
Pete Laybourn expressed his concerns regarding a neighborhood issue along Pershing Blvd. from
Converse to Seymour, particularly the intersection area of Duff and Pershing.  He briefly reviewed past
history of the intersection relative to a traffic light; commented on increased vehicular and pedestrian
traffic and safety issues, and noted private business investments and improvements and economic
vitality within the area.  He requested the governing body consider a professional evaluation involving
traffic volumes, pedestrian access and traffic practices relative to whether traffic lights and pedestrian
crosswalks would be appropriate.  Mr. Laybourn stated with the pending reconstruction project work
planned for Pershing Blvd. that this would be a good opportunity to also address this topic.  Michelle
McMahon, President/CEO, Frontier Access & Mobility, also discussed vehicle and pedestrian safety
concerns involving the Duff and Pershing intersection, and spoke in support of implementation of a
traffic light a nd crosswalks.  Connie Cook, busi ness employee in the ne ar vicinity, also conve yed
pedestrian safety concerns, relating a recent accident that had occurred at the intersection, and stated that
people can not safely cross the street.  Support for a traffic study for the intersection area was voiced by
Mr. Allen and Ms. Williams.
Brad Harrington commented on a recent public hearing before the Planning Commission with
regard to input on proposed changes to the Unified Development Code, and expressed concerns on the
hearing format not being conducive to receiving comments from those who w ere in attendance.  He
stated his opposition to the UDC from a personal property rights standpoint and encouraged Council
members to repeal it.  M. Lee Hasenauer, Laramie County Commissioner, inquired about pending dates
relative to future meetings concerning proposed UDC changes with Mayor Kaysen advising that meeting
dates have not yet been set as input that has been received is being reviewed.  He added that there will
be a City Council work session scheduled prior to changes coming before the City Council and that
public notices of the meetings will be provided.  B arbie Harrington expressed her vie wpoint of the
public hearing held on the UDC, conveying her belief that not all of the public’s input (i.e.: wr itten
materials) was shared with Commission members.  Comment was made  that meetings involving the
UDC changes should be better publicized.
Buck Holmes, L aramie County  Commi ssioner, advised he  is the Commi ssion’s deleg ated
representative to attend City Council meetings and he was available for any communication purposes.
He stated Commissioners Amber Ash a nd M. L ee Hasenauer were also in the audienc e to furthe r
communication between the commissioners and council members.
Congratulation was extended to the Tyrrell-Doyle Chevrolet family for celebrating their 75th
anniversary of doing business in Cheyenne.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 9:22 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 March 8, 2013
 