MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-03-11 | CLIP_ID: 363 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 363

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 March 11, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms.
Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Allen, and pursuant to support received by Ms. Broyles
and Mr. Shanor, agenda item #13(d) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Allen moved to
approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 25, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to Appraisals, Inc.
($975.00), Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Lt. Mark Munari, Police Department, provided information
regarding appraisal of two properties located at 400-408 W. 17  Street, which are adjacent to the siteth
proposed for the new public safety building (Dinneen property), noting the property owner shared the
cost of the appraisal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in
Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential District to MR-2
Medium Density Residential – Developing District for a tract of land situated in a portion the East Half
of the East Half (E½E½) of Section 20 and a portion of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter
of the Northwest Quarter (SW¼ SW¼ NW¼) of Section 21,  T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne,
Laramie County, Wyoming, to be know n as the B luffs, 9  Filing (located approximately 1,500 feetth
north of the intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden Road).  Mayor Kaysen advised a letter (on file
with City Clerk’s office) had been received from the applicant requesting the item, as well as an
affiliated a genda ite m pe rtaining to a nnexation, b e withdrawn.  U pon in quiry, M r. Al len, Pub lic
Services Committee Chair, confirmed that Committee members ha d no objection to the item being
withdrawn.  Upon query and with no objection being raised from members of the governing body,
Mayor Kaysen stated the item was being withdrawn from the agenda.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zon ing Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from P Public to NB Neighborhood Business for Lot 1, Block
4, Storey Boulevard Extension, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Converse Avenue,
approximately one-quarter mile south of Storey Boulevard).  Reporting for Public Services Committee,
Mr. Allen moved to appro ve on third and final rea ding, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#3970)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from A-2, County Agriculture, to AG, Agriculture, for Lot 1,
Block 1; L ot 1, Block 2; a nd L ot 2, Block 2, Plains I ndustrial Park, and c hanging the zoning
classification from A-2, County  Ag riculture, to HI , Hea vy I ndustrial, for L ot 3, Block 2, Plains
Industrial Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of I-80, west of Campstool Road) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
RESOLUTION - Determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402
exist for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of the East Half of the East Half of Section  20 and
a portion of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of  Section 21,
Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located approximately
1,500 feet north of the intersection of Converse Avenue and Ogden Road).  Mayor Kaysen advised, as
identified ea rlier, a  letter (on f ile with Cit y Clerk’s off ice) had bee n rec eived f rom the applica nt
requesting the item be withdrawn from the agenda.  Upon query and with no objection being raised from
members of the governing body, Mayor Kaysen stated the item was being withdrawn from the agenda.
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing submissi on of a pr e-application form to the S tate Loan and
Investment Board for a loan through the State Revolving Fund on behalf of the Cheyenne Governing
Body for the pur pose of de sign and construction of a  Wetland and Stormwater  Quality Facility --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Diamond
Estates, Fourth Filing, a replat of a portion of Tract 316, Sunnyside Addition, Seventh Filing, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Pierce Avenue, north of Rock Springs Street) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Umpires Association to provide umpire
services for the 2013, 2014 a nd 2015 Softball Seasons (so ftball registration revenue).  Motion (pe r
Consent Agenda) approved. (#5968) 
[CA] Agreement for Juvenile Compliance and Diversion Officer Services between Laramie County,
the City of Cheyenne, and the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for
reimbursement of dual-commissioned Juvenile Diversion Officer’s salary (Federal Office of Juvenile
Justice and Delinquency Prevention Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) approved (revenue to City
$37,578.00). (#5969) 
[CA] Agreement between the Wyoming Department of Transportation and the City of Cheyenne for
the West Lincolnway Project (Wyoming Department of Transportation funding).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) approved. (#5970)
Real Estate Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and W. E. Dinneen, Inc., for the
purchase of real estate  located at 405 West 18  Street, 1704 Pioneer Avenue, 410 West 17  Street, andth th
416 West 17  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  William Overlingth
posed numerous questions involving the proposed acquisition of the property as the site of a new public
safety building.  His queries included the property appraisal amount and what the City is proposing to
pay; renovation costs, and thoroughness of researching other potential sites.  I n response, Lt. Mark
Munari, Cheyenne Police Department, provided information on the property involving existing building
and lot infrastructure and renovation benefits; renovation costs; property appraisal ($1.655 million) vs.
owner’s requested purchase price ($1.986 million); existing underground as well as upper level parking
availability; project funding in the amount of $25 million approved by voters for use of 1% Specific
Sales and Use  Tax, and other sites that had be en analyzed.  Bo b Morris, Downtown De velopment
Authority Board member, spoke in s upport of the City acquiring the property for the public safety
building, noting the importance of maintaining a downtown police presence which a lso p romotes
utilization of a vacant building site.  Joh n Dinneen, representative of W.E. Dinneen, Inc., property
owner, provided a  brief history of the prope rty’s use by  the owner , noting the f ormer Dinneen car
dealership business that had occupied a majority of the site has been closed for six years.  He reviewed
the owner’s efforts in putting together a team of professionals to ascertain the property’s attributes and
marketing options to utilize the site to its highest and best use for economic value to the community.
He discussed the property appraisal amount vs. the requested purchase price, stating an appraisal is an
estimated value only and that commercial property appraisals are more difficult to do as it is hard to find
comparable prope rties, and pr ovided re asons why  the owner  believes some c omponents of the
building’s features should have been assigned more value in the appraisal report.  During his comments,
Mr. Dinneen referred to visual slides that were displayed and submitted a handout (on file with City
Clerk’s office) from the appraisal report relative to the square foot market valuation.  Upon inquiry, Mr.
Dinneen advised as part of the City’s acquisition process an environmental assessment of the property
will be conducted.  Mr. Overling commented in opposition to purchase of the property at this time and
suggested other sites be checked into relative to comparison of costs of rehabilitation vs. new building
construction.  James Perrott Macneil stated his belief that there are not many large properties available
and spoke in support of the site as the location for the public safety building.  Lt. Munari advised that
pursuant to research in preparing information for the tax ballot, the Dinneen property provided the best
option for use of ta xpayers dol lars and that the estimated construction cost includes r enovation.
Reporting for F inance Commi ttee, Mr. B rown moved to a pprove in a n amount not to ex ceed
$1,986,000.00, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Discussion topics included: Wording of ballot proposition
approved by voters in the funding amount of $25 million dollars for the project; concern with possible
additional c osts; f uture p otential t o a cquire a dditional p roperties w ithin th e b lock f or e xpansion;
property appraisal valuation vs. owner’s requested purchase price; support for the public safety building
to be located within the downtown area; suggestion that further research be done on optional sites;
estimated fair market value; City not legally restricted to purchasing property at more than the appraised
amount; long-range plans for other service areas to be included at the building site; review of other sites
that ha d b een a nalyzed; c omposition of  the  sit e re view c ommittee, w hich in cluded City -County
Emergency Manag ement Ag ency and Combined Communications  dispatch re presentatives; due
diligence efforts, and conc erns with re novation and maintena nce issues a s well as future  6  pennyth
project funding.  Comments in support as well as non-support of purchasing the property were made.
During discussion and upon inquiry, Lt. Munari and Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, provided
information in response to questions, including proposed project costs; criteria used by the committee
in reviewing sites, which included a preferred downtown location to be in close vicinity to municipal
court and jail facilities for reduced costs and efficiencies, and positive elements of the Dinneen property.
Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen provided information on future expansion (long-range plan) at the site that
might include re-location of Municipal Court offices.  Upon inquiry to Council members whether there
would be any objection to him asking questions for clarification relating to topics that were being raised
during discussion, and no objection being  voiced, Mayor Kaysen requested information from Chief
Kozak and L t. Munari re garding costs for a downtown location vs. outside of the dow ntown area
associated with such areas as fiber optics; proposed use of the building’s underground parking area;
environmental assessment information (to be received prior to closing date if purchased); information
provided to the public on the proposed building site and structure renovation plans prior to the ballot
proposition being vote d upon; funding  amount ($25 m illion) voters approve d, and cha llenges
discovered with other potential locations reviewed by the site committee.  Motion to approve failed (due
to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Valdez, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:08 p.m.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Chicago Dog House, LLC
for the provision of concession services at the Pioneer Park Concession and Restroom Facility (revenue
to City) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne a nd Jo sh Co ssitt t o p rovide te nnis s ervices a nd
instruction at City-owned tennis facilities (revenue to City) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 5956, Contingency and Development Agreement,  between
the City of Cheyenne and parties involved in the Microsoft Dataplant Demonstration Project to effect
a date change.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5956)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5781, betwe en the City of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for the addition of strategic grant writing services and associated preliminary engineering
design required by grants to enable securing of additional grant funding for the Cheyenne West Edge
(Lower Capitol Basin) Projec t (1% Specif ic Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x) --  ref erred to Fina nce
Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 4 to Contract No. 5496, between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for additional testing services for the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project (Phase
IV) (2007-2010 1% Sales Ta x, Board of Public Utilities, Fede ral Highway Administration funds) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-20-13 for furnishing three new pickup trucks f or the Public Works
Department, Street & Alley Division (2007 - 2010, 2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-9-13 for  a Contrac t for the Ea st Pershing B oulevard/19th
Street/Converse Avenue Intersection Improvements Project between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, Wyoming (2007 - 2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-11-13 for annual purchase of furnishing aggregate for the Street and
Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-12-13 for annual purchase of  hot mix, tack oil and cold mix for the
Street and Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
    
Renewal of existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill
licenses, and microbrewery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office. The name of said applicant, type
of license and description of premises which applicant desires to use as the place of sale are set forth
as follows: Wigwam, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package Liquor, retail, 2105 E. Lincolnway;
Cheyenne Vail Investments, Inc. d/b/a Gus &  Jon’s Crown Bar, retail, 222 W est Lincolnway; Poor
Richard's d/b/a Poor Richard’s, retail, 2233 E. Lincolnway; W.W. Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Les’ Lamp
Lounge and Drive-In Liquor, retail, 101 W. 6th St.; The Blue Bird, Inc. d/b/a Uncle Charlie's, retail,
6001 Yellowstone Road; Langhoff Enterprises d/b/a Two Bar Bowl, retail, 700 E. Carlson; Cadill ac
Ranch Bar, Inc. d/b/a Cadillac Ranch Bar, retail, 3307 Nationway; Fraternal Order of Eagles Aerie #128,
ltd. retail, 1600 Thomes Ave.; B.P.O. Elks #660, ltd. retail, 100 E. 17th St.; W. E. Dinneen, Inc. d/b/a
[to be determined], retail, 400 W. Lincolnway; KEG, Inc. d/b/a D.T.’s Liquor Mart & Tusker Bar, retail,
3310 Ridge Road; J KLL, Inc. d/b/a The  Drunken Skunk, retail, 161 7 Capitol Ave.; Twin Dr agon
Chinese Rest., Inc. d/b/a Twin Dragon, rest., 1809 Carey Avenue; South Side Bar, Inc. d/b/a Keg 'n
Kork Liquors, retail, 822 Central  Ave.; Rande’s Ritz, LLC d/b/a Midtown Tavern, r etail, 1303 E.
Pershing Blvd.; Cheyenne Country Club, ltd. retail, 800 Stinner Road; F & G Corp. d/b/a The Green
Door, retail, 301 E. L incolnway; ENI, Inc. d/b/a Eagle's Nest, retail, 1101 W. L incolnway; Outback
Steakhouse of Florida, LLC d/b/a Outback Steakhouse, retail, 1626 Fleischli Parkway; Lambousis
Revocable Trust d/b/a Mayflower, retail, 112 W. 17th St.; Four Winds, Inc. d/b/a Four Winds, retail,
1103 E. Pershing; EKG, Inc. d/b/a D.T.'s Package Liquor and Lounge, retail, 2121 E. Lincolnway; Alf
in Wyoming Enterprise, LLC d/b/a Alf's Pub and Packag e Liquor, retail, 1622 E. 19th St.;  Flatland
Investments, LLC d/b/a Godfather's Pizza, rest., 5719 Yellowstone Road; Francis E. Self Post #6 d/b/a
The American Legion Post #6, ltd. retail, 2001 E. Lincolnway; The Peaks Cafe II, LLC d/b/a The Peaks
Cafe II at the Airport, rest., 300 E. 8th Ave.; F .E. Warren Post #1881 d/ b/a V.F.W. Post #1881, l td.
retail, 2816 E. 7th St.; Knights of Columbus Council #801 d/b/a Casey's Club, ltd. retail, 507 W. 28th
St.; Blanne Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Cool River Wine & Spirits, retail, 5225 Yellowstone Rd.; Re-o-na
Sushi and Thai d/b/a Re-o-na Sushi Bar and Thai Cuisine, rest., 112 W. 17th St.; Los Abuelos Mexican
Restaurant, LLC d/b/a Los Abuelos Mexican Restaurant, retail, 1601 Central Ave.; Airport Golf Club,
Inc., ltd. retail, 4801 Central Ave.; Katrina M. and Adam L. Howell d/b/a Scooter's Scoreboard Bar,
retail, 507 E. Lincolnway; Cloud 9, Inc. d/b/a Cloud 9 Liquorland, retail, 1958 Dell Range Blvd. #C;
Texas Roadhouse of Chey enne, LLC d/b/a Texas Roadhouse, re tail, 1931 Blueg rass Circle; HEJE,
Inc.d/b/a Outlaw Liquors, retail, 4503 Western Way; KZ Corporation d/b/a Goofy’s Tavern, retail, 2801
E. Lincolnway; Stillwater, Inc. d/b/a Mingles, retail, 1618 Stillwater Ave.; Prairie View Golf Club, ltd.
retail, 3600 Windmill Road; Albany, Inc. d/b/a Albany Rest., Bar and Liquormart, retail, 1506 Capitol
Ave.; Mehn, Inc. d/b/a Casa De Trujillo, rest., 122 W. 6th St.; S&W Properties, LLC d/b/a Vinos Wine
and Spirits, retail, 453 Vandehei Ave., #190;  The Plains Hotel Co., LLC d/b/a The Plains Hotel, resort,
1600 Central Ave.; Avanti, Inc. d/b/a Dell Range Liquor, retail, 3806 Dell Range Blvd., Suite 4; Pizza
Hut on Yellowstone, Inc, rest., 5320 Yellowstone Rd.; Hotel West I, LP d/b/a Holiday Inn Cheyenne,
resort, 204 W. Fox Farm Rd.; AMVETS Post #10, ltd. retail, 3839 E. Lincolnway; Moreno & Reyes,
LLC d/b/a Guadalajara Family Mexican Rest., rest., 1745 Dell Range Blvd.; Pizza Hut of Cheyenne,Inc.
d/b/a Pizza Hut/Wing Street, rest., 4503 Western Way; 2 Doors Down 2, Inc. d/b/a 2 Doors Down 2,
rest., 1802 Dell Range Blvd., #2;  Morris House Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Morris House Bistro, rest., 2114
Warren Ave.; Bighorn Associates, LC d/b/a Chili's Southwest Grill and Bar, retail, 1320 Dell Range
Blvd.; Appaloosa Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Sanford’s Grub & Pub, retail, 115 E. 17th St.; Maria Ramos
d/b/a El Cha rrito Me xican Re staurant, re st., 2 16 E.  17 th S t.; RMH  F ranchise Cor poration d /b/a
Applebee's N eighborhood Gr ill a nd B ar, re tail, 14 01 De ll Ra nge B lvd.; D elilah R.  Pin eda d/b /a
Estevan's Cafe, rest., 1820 Ridge Road; GMRI, Inc. d/b/a Red Lobster #639, retail, 1923 Dell Range
Blvd.; Dynasty Cafe, Inc. d/b/a Dynasty Cafe, rest., 600 W. 19  St.; Mondello Corporation d/b/ath
L’Osteria Mondello, rest., 1507 Stillwater; China Buffet, Inc. d/b/a China Buffet, rest., 1958 Dell Range
Blvd.; Shadows Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Shadows Pub & Grill, rest., 115 W. 15th St., #1; Steamboat’s,
LLC d/b/a St eamboat’s Wyoming Steak a nd Smoke House, re tail, 1947 Dell Range Blvd.; Nagle-
Warren Mansion, LLC d/b/a Nagle-Warren Mansion LLC, rest., 222 East 17  St.; OC Cheyenne, LLCth
d/b/a Old Chicago Rest., retail, 1734 Meadowland Dr.;  Sandra J. Innis d/b/a 2 Doors Down, rest., 118
E. 17th St.; Soo Hyun Choi,  LLC d/b/a Tokyo Bowl, rest., 1829 Dell Range Blvd.; Jerry P. Innis d/b/a
Pizzeria Ve nti, r est., 1 12 E.  17  St. ; Sh adows Brewing Co., L LC d/ b/a Sha dows Pub  &  Gr ill,th
microbrewery, 115 W. 15th St.; Freedoms Edge Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Freedoms Edge Brewing Co.,
microbrewery, 301 W. Lincolnway; Freedoms Edge Brewing 2, LLC d/b/a Freedoms Edge Brewing Co.,
microbrewery, 1509 Pioneer Ave.; OG of Cheyenne, Inc. d/b/a The Olive Garden Italian Rest., bar &
grill, 1536 Dell Range Blvd.; Moreno and Aguilar, LLC d/b/a Hacienda Guadalajara, bar & grill, 317
E. Lincolnway; O’Jackson’s, Inc. d/b/a  Jackson’s All American Sports Bar & Grill, bar & grill, 1121
Old Town Lane; Blazin Wings, Inc. d/b/a Buffalo Wild Wings Grill & Bar, bar & grill, 1740 Prairie
Ave.; The Suite, LLC d/b/a The Suite, bar &  grill, 1901 Central Ave.  Car ol Intlekofer, City Clerk,
offered a suggestion that in lieu of rea ding the list of renewal applicants for the 2013-2014 term, as
shown on the meeting agenda, the listing itself be recorded in its entirety in the official minutes of the
meeting together with any motions and votes.  She noted, pursuant to state statute req uirements,
publication of notice of renewal applications and posting of notices on respective premises have been
achieved, and the  holding of  a public hea ring before the g overning body has bee n conducted.  She
further stated that the City Attorney has advised that this statement on the record provides sufficient
documentation to identify those individual renewal applications that may be acted upon at the meeting.
Upon query by Mayor Kaysen to members of the governing body, there was no objection voiced to
recognize the renewal applicants as listed on the agenda in lieu of the Clerk reading the individual
applicants, and Mayor Kaysen announced the r eading of re newal applicants’ infor mation would be
waived.  Mr. Brown moved to approve the renewal applications “en masse”, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Mr. Brown moved to divide the question to allow for a separate vote on Stillwater, Inc. d/b/a Mingles,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Mr.
Brown moved to approve the liquor license application for Stillwater, Inc. d/b/a Mingles subject to the
terms and conditions of the Resolution and Settlement Agreement approved by the governing body on
Feb. 25, 2013, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised wording of
the motion preserves the City’s rights under the Resolution and Settlement Agreement and makes clear
that renewal of the liquor license for Mingles is subject to the terms and conditions of the Resolution
and Settlement Agreement.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Upon
inquiry regarding whether a representative for Olive G arden was pre sent at the mee ting to provide
information concerning failure of a police compliance check during 2012, it was noted that no one was
present on behalf of the establishment.  Police Chief Brian Kozak provided information available on the
topic, stating the individual involved in the failed compliance check was no longer employed by the
licensee.  Motion to approve all remaining renewal applicants “en masse” carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.
[CA] Authorization to purchase self-contained breathing apparatus equipment from Norco, Inc., single
source vendor, throug h the Fir efighter Ac countability prog ram (F ederal Emerg ency Manag ement
Agency (F EMA) Ac countability Gra nt and 2011 - 2014 1% Sale s Tax ) -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen provided a brief update on negotiation discussion status involving
the City-owned portion of property commonly referred to as the “downtown hole”, advising that interest
by adjacent property owners is still ongoing.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 8:18 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 March 21, 2013