MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-03-25 | CLIP_ID: 364 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 364

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 March 25, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen;  COUNCIL MEMBERS
- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.
Absent: Ms. Broyles.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan
White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Mayor Kaysen noted a clerical correction on the numbering of items contained on the first page
of the meeting agenda.  Consent Ag enda. (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [CA] are
considered to be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will
be no separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in
its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Allen and Dr. Rinne, agenda item #8 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Allen moved
to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from R egular M eeting o f th e G overning Body o n M arch 1 1, 2 013.  M otion ( per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  F ollowing announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to
Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from A-2, County Agriculture, to AG, Agriculture, for Lot 1,
Block 1; L ot 1, Block 2; a nd L ot 2,  Block 2, P lains I ndustrial Park, and c hanging the  zoning
classification from A-2, County  Ag riculture, to HI , Hea vy I ndustrial, for L ot 3, Block 2, Plains
Industrial Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of I-80, west of Campstool Road).  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing submissi on of a pr e-application form to the State L oan and
Investment Board for a loan through the State Revolving Fund on behalf of the Cheyenne Governing
Body for t he p urpose o f d esign a nd c onstruction o f a  W etland a nd S tormwater Q uality F acility.
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown
moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager, advised
the substitute is to amend the 5  Whereas paragraph, which states the term is for 20 years, however, sheth
advised SLIB recently requested this be amende d to a 5 y ear term to coincide  with the dedica ted
payment source (6  penny sales tax) which is anticipated to be collected within 5 years.  Motion toth
amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended
by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5481)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Diamond
Estates, Fourth Filing, a replat of a portion of Tract 316, Sunnyside Addition, Seventh Filing, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Pierce Avenue, north of Rock Springs Street).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5482)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for Plains
Industrial Park, a r eplat of a portion of HR Ranch Road r ight-of-way within GDC Subdi vision and
portions of Section 6, T.13N., R.65W.; Section 1, T.13N., R.66W.; Section 31, T.14N., R.65W.; and
Section 36, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of I-80, west of Campstool
Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing an indepe ndent professional traffic saf ety planning study be
conducted for the intersection of  Pershing Boulevard and Duff Avenue in the  City o f C heyenne,
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna,
Mr. Shanor, Ms. Williams).
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Chicago Dog House, LLC
for the provision of concession services at the Pioneer Park Concession and Restroom Facility (revenue
to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5971)
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and J osh Cossit t t o provide tennis ser vices and
instruction at City-owned tennis facilities (revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5972)  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and RBC Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc. to
provide Investment Advisory Services -- referred to Finance Committee.
  
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Singletrack Trails, Inc. for
North Cheyenne Com munity Park Sin gletrack Trail Design and Construction ( Recreational Trails
Program grant funds and donations) -- referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown advised in order to
meet the proposed construction schedule time frame, the item was reviewed under other items for the
agenda at the Finance Committee meeting and provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.  Mr.
Brown moved to appr ove in an a mount not to ex ceed $42,790.00, seconded by Mr. Valde z.  J eff
Wiggins, Parks and Recreation Dept., advised the agreement is follow-up for grant funding for the
project through the Recreational Trails program, and also noted private donations that have been offered
toward the project by Paul Frauendienst, Dan Gregg and Larry Sutherland.  He stated in order to abide
with the construction trail schedule, the item was brought up under other items for the agenda at Finance
Committee.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5973)
Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Cheyenne
Warriors Professional Indoor Football Team, LLC, for the purpose of holding arena football games and
related practices at the City of Cheyenne-owned Ice and Events Center (revenue to City) -- referred to
Finance Committee.  In order to meet proposed events and practice schedule time lines, Mr. Brown
advised the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the Finance Committee meeting and
provisions of Title 2 of City  Code had be en met.  Mr. B rown moved to appr ove, seconded by Mr.
Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Todd Feezer, Assistant
Parks and Recreation Director, advised the substitute amends the daily use fee charged for the facility
in order to be consistent with other contracts for similar uses, and that the item was review ed under
other items for the agenda at the Finance Committee meeting in order to meet the facility use schedule
by the Cheyenne Warriors.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Feezer provided information on the agreement provision pertaining
to promotional activities involving pre -approval by Ice and Events Center staf f.  Main motion as
amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5974)
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Chey enne Youth Baseball League for the provision of conc ession services at the
Dutcher Baseball Complex Concession and Restroom Facility -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Chey enne Junior L eague Baseball for the provision of c oncession services at the
Cheyenne Junior League Baseball Complex Concession and Restroom Facility -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Warren Federal Credit Union to p ermit
limited use of the public right-of-way for the installation of fiber optics, and setting a fee (revenue to
City) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Hunter Management Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department, and
the State of Wyoming, Game and Fish Department, for the Lone Tree Hunter Management Area on the
Belvoir Ranch (revenue to City) -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County Community
Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth at Carey Junior
High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Five grant funds) -- referred to Financest
Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5781, between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for the addition of strategic grant writing services and associated preliminary engineering
design required by grants to enable securing of additional grant funding for the Cheyenne West Edge
(Lower Capitol Basin) Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $263,620.00). (#5781)  
Contract Modification No. 4 to Contract No. 5496, between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for additional testing services for the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project (Phase
IV) (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax, Board of Public Utilities, Federal Highway Administration funds).  Mr.
Brown reported there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved
to approve in an amount not to exceed $19,360.00, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Brown
advised of the results of the votes taken for recommendation at Finance Committee.  Upon inquiry,
Nathan Beauheim, Acting City Engineer, advised the modification specifically relates to the west
corridor portion of the project that Reiman is constructing.  He provided information regarding the need
for the additional testing services for quality control relative to certain omissions discovered in the
initial bid/contract provisions, noting the use  of a sub- consultant should result in a net sa vings of
approximately $6,000.00 to the City.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present. (#5496)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5922, between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Simon Contractors, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to increase the quantity of
structural concrete retaining and wingwalls for the Cheyenne Greenway Walterscheid Underpass Project
(1% Spec ific Purpose S ales and Use  Ta x, Miscellaneous F ederal g rants) - - re ferred to F inance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-20-13 for furnishing three new pickup trucks for the Public Works
Department, Street & Alley Division (2007 - 2010, 2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (accept bid from Spradley Barr Motors, Inc., Cheyenne, WY, in an amount not to
exceed $104,690.00).
Consideration o f B id # M-9-13 f or a  Co ntract f or th e E ast P ershing B oulevard/19th
Street/Converse Avenue Intersection Improvements Project between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Simon Contractors, C heyenne, Wyoming ( 2007 - 2010 1% Sales Ta x).  Rich
Bolkovatz, Reiman Corp., expressed concerns with awarding the bid to Simon Contractors, commenting
on bid elements involving disclosure of sub-contractors; type of contractor trade license involved and
work that c an be done  under the  license ty pe; landscaping and tree removal as well electrical and
plumbing work involved a nd re quirements of  tho se wh o c an p rovide the  se rvices; b id q uantity
discrepancies, and state pre ference law complianc e.  John Arambul, Sim on Contractors, provided
information on services that will be provided in volving landscaping and tree removal, relative to a
licensed arborist, and bidding of the project based upon wording in the bid specifications, and advised
the company  does have  the nec essary require d licenses.  Mr. B rown reported there  was no
recommendation on the item from F inance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved to acc ept the bid in an
amount not to exceed $4,503,141.55, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Arambul reviewed
work the company had recently provided involving a portion of we st Pershing, which required tree
removal and landscape work, and advised they sub it out if it is considered high risk, otherwise they do
the wo rk themselves.  He stated that he did not feel he will need to hire a subcontractor for the
landscaping and tree removal portion of this project.  Upon inquiry , he reviewed how the company
acquires information from proposed subcontractors or specialized service providers to a ssist with
preparation of e stimated costs to submit  in a bid proposal.  Discussion followed and included the
following topics: Requirements for providing landscaping/tree removal, plumbing and electrical work;
subcontractor requirements and lists and timing of submittal of same; work that can be provided under
a Class A contractor license; type of work that will be done regarding landscaping/tree removal and
electrical and plumbing areas; concern with potential change orders and wording of bid specification
document; responsibility for materials testing; wording of the bid specification issued by the City and
suggestions for changes/clarifications to future bid documents involving work of this type relative to
subcontractor list requirements; proof  of contra ctor qualifications; enforcement of contractor self-
performance ar eas, a nd liquidat ed damages.  During  discussion and upon inquiry , Mr. Ara mbul
provided information in response to questions and Nathan Beauheim, Acting City Engineer, provided
information on contractor materials testing requirements.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present with the ex ception of Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne and Ms. Willi ams voting
“no”. (#5975)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-11-13 for annual purchase of furnishing aggregate for the Street and
Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from
Knife River, Cheyenne, WY in the amount of $4.70/ton).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-12-13 for annual purchase of  hot mix, tack oil and cold mix for the
Street and Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept
bid from Knife River, Cheyenne, WY in the amount of $51.95/ton-hot mix; $1.15/gal-tack o il;
$77.50/ton-cold mix.).
    
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-24-13 for furnishing and installing playground systems for JL Ranch
Park fr om Great Western Park a nd Play ground, Wellsvill e, Utah, f or the Parks a nd Recre ation
Department (Community Facility fees) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Authorization to purchase self-contained breathing apparatus equipment from Norco, Inc., single
source vendor, throug h th e Firefighter Ac countability prog ram (F ederal Emerg ency Manag ement
Agency (FEMA) Accountability Grant and 2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, April 8, 2013 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2 101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Fiscal Year 2013-2014
Annual Action Plan, City of Cheyenne Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) entitlement.
Under other business:
Jan Nelson Schroll provided handouts (on file with City Clerk’s Office) regarding the City’s
old pump house building located within the west edge storm drainage project.  She expressed her belief
that it is a dangerous building and a potential liability to the City, citing safety concerns due to the
unstabilized condition of the building, broken glass, discarded tires and storage of certain items in an
open environment.  She spoke in favor of stabilizing and renovating the building in the future.
Tom Lindsey commented on lack of development of the “downtown hole” off of Lincolnway
and stated action should be initiated to fill it in to help beautify the area.  He suggested a multi-purpose
building be built on the site.  Mr. L indsey als o expressed his opinion t hat the rounda bout (i.e.
Pershing/19th/Converse project) was not necessary.  Later, under other business, and upon request,
Mayor Kaysen advised a resolution was adopted authorizing the mayor to negotiate with the adjacent
property owner  rela tive t o the City-owned portion of the prope rty commonly  ref erred to as the
“downtown hole” and that negotiations are on-going, and that fencing of the site has been stabilized.
Duane Wall read a  statement of history  he had c ompiled pertaining to damag e he a lleged
occurred to his prope rty in early 2000 due to dra inage issues resulting from a housing subdivision
development.  He stated problems he  has endured due to the dr ainage design and valley pan/gutter
installed adjacent to his property, and noted his attendance at previous City Council meetings to address
the matter.  He reviewed his concerns with a local building contractor and City staff who were involved
in the development project at the time; enforcement of City laws and codes; construction specifications,
subdivision and zoning regulations in place at the time of construction vs. current Unified Development
Code provisions; his prior requests for monetary relief, correction and remedy to the drainage problems
he had raised, and submitted a packet of information (on file with City Clerk’s office) to members of
the governing body.  He requested reimbursement for expenses he has incurred regarding the issues he
presented.
Margaret Kelly raised concerns regarding parking issues in front of homes located along E. 25th
Street between Central and Warren Ave. and asked whether special parking areas for residents only
could be assigned.  She advised there is a 2 hour limit on parking in the area since it is located within
a historical district, but stated this is often abused by employees who work in the vicinity, those
attending s tate l egislative m eetings d uring t he s ession, a nd t ourists/visitors t o t he c ommunity.
Comments followed reg arding communications with City  staff on the  matter a nd Mayor Kaysen
advised he would follow up with staff.
Comment was made regarding concerns on receiving information from City departments.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 7:25 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 April 4, 2013