MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-04-08 | CLIP_ID: 367 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 367

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 April 8, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.
Absent: Ms. Broyles.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan
White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of contained  [CA]  are considered
to be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Brown moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Mayor Kaysen noted
Agenda Item #22(g) is being referred to Committee of the Whole, which will meet to review the item
on April 17 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on March 25, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  F ollowing announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to
Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for the Fiscal Year 2013-
2014 A nnual A ction Pl an, Ci ty o f Ch eyenne Co mmunity D evelopment B lock G rant ( CDBG)
entitlement.  Deanne Widauf, Housing and Community Development Office (H&CD), provided a brief
overview of the history and purpose of the CDBG program, noting the City has received entitlement
grant funds since 1975.  She advised the proposed plan is consistent with the 5 year Comprehensive
Consolidated Plan, and stated the anticipated allocation funding amount is $344,408.00, which is 8%
less than last year, and that an additional $298,086.00 in recaptured and un-appropriated funds will also
be utilized (total amount of $642,494.00).  Ms Widauf explained the grant application process; public
notifications and opportunities for input, and r ole of the A dvisory Council in reviewing  and
recommending projects to be funded.  She stated 10 projects are proposed for funding for public service
projects, general service projects and program administration, and reviewed the projects and funding
amounts as recommended by the Advisory Council.  Upon inquiry, Rick Parish, Director of Parks and
Recreation, provided i nformation on the de partment’s funding request for the Holliday  Park ADA
accessible restroom project (facility located at 19  and Alexander) which was submitted through theth
application process with the assistance of the City’s Grants Manager.  There being no further comments
and input, and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from A-2, County Agriculture, to AG, Agriculture, for Lot 1,
Block 1; L ot 1, Block 2; a nd L ot 2, Block 2, Plains Industrial Park, and c hanging the  zoning
classification from A-2, County  Ag riculture, to HI , Hea vy I ndustrial, for L ot 3, Block 2, Plains
Industrial Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of I-80, west of Campstool Road).  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#3971)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 , Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1, Medium Density Residential-Established to NR-3,
Neighborhood Residential-High Density for t he West 44-feet of Lot 4, Block 259, Original City,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of 21  Street and Maxwell Avenue) – referred tost
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from P, Public, to CBD, Central Business District for the south
½ of Lots 1 and 2, and 16-foot vacated alley, Block 229, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
west of and adjacent to Pioneer Avenue, between 21  and 22  Streets) – referred to Public Servicesst nd
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Vacating portions of Duff Avenue and E. 13th Street adjacent to Blocks 443,
444, 4 53 a nd 4 54, O riginal C ity, Ch eyenne, Wy oming ( located s outh o f E . L incolnway, w est of
Alexander Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the Ci ty Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for Plains
Industrial Park, a r eplat of a portion of HR Ranch Road r ight-of-way within GDC Subdi vision and
portions of Section 6, T.13N., R.65W.; Section 1, T.13N., R.66W.; Section 31, T.14N., R.65W.; and
Section 36, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of I-80, west of Campstool
Road).  Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Allen moved to amend by substitute
to correct a typographical error in the 4th paragraph to change the “dedication of Lot 3, Block 2" to
“dedication of Lot 1, Block 2”, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present. (#5483)
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing an independent professional tra ffic safety planning study be
conducted for the inter section of Per shing Boulevard and Duf f Avenue in the City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming.  Tom Mason, Director, Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO), recommended the study
be facilitated through the MPO, expl aining that assig nment to the MPO would provide for a  more
detailed a nd ind epth stu dy inv olving oth er n eighborhood a nd c ommunity ele ments, a nd pu blic
involvement.  He pr ovided information on the MPO’s fede ral funding cycle and the MPO Poli cy
Committee’s inv olvement i n a pproving pr ojects; e xpressed h is beli ef that ti ming of  the  stu dy is
important relative to current area construction that could affect accuracy of results, and recommended
developing the scope  of work to be included in the study  be done in the summer  with hiring of  a
consultant to conduct the study later to coincide with the MPO budget cycle, contingent upon the Policy
Committee’s approval, and when c onstruction has bee n completed in the a rea.  Upon inq uiry, Mr.
Mason provided information on a grant the MPO received last summer to develop a complete streets
policy, which could be included in PlanCheyenne, and noted the policy would address transportation
routes for cars, pedestrians and bicyclists.  Anne  Picot, member, Mayor’s Council for People with
Disabilities, commented on pedestrian safety concerns at the Pershing/Duff intersection and expressed
concerns with postponing the study, stating timely resolution to the issue should be achieved.  Lee Filer,
state representative, spoke in favor of addressing the matter immediately due to safety concerns.  Gregg
Crisp, chairman, Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities, advised the Council does not support
the resolution in its current state but would support a study by MPO with a complete street policy that
would encompass traffic, pedestrians, and businesses located near the intersection.  Debbie Massengill,
employee of Hoy’s Drug, also cited pedestrian safety concerns she has observed at the interse ction
crossing. Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown stated there was no recommendation on the
item from the Committee.  Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Discussion included the
following topics: Support for the MPO to conduct the study , which will provide for  a more
encompassing study of areas of concern, after construction is completed i n the area; addressing the
matter properly and efficiently through MPO assistance, and the need to acquire accurate data.  Motion
to adopt failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the City of Cheyenne’s 2013- 2014 Annual Action Plan prepared
by the Chey enne Housing and Communi ty Development Office – refe rred to Financ e Committ ee
(sponsors – Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor and the City Cle rk to s ign a Final Pla t f or Ok ie
Addition, First Filing, a portion of  Section 28, T.14N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
at the northeast corner of E. Pershing Boulevard and Windmill Road, near East High School) -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for F incher
Block, 2  Filing, a re plat of L ots 1 through 12, B lock One, F incher Block, Cheyenne, Wyomingnd
(located between Morrie and Bradley Avenues, and between E. 22  and 23  Streets) -- referred tond rd
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the  Fisca l Year  2013 budg et of the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd the  City  Cle rk to e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) Grant Agreement to update the City’s Historic
Preservation ordinance – referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Allen and Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd the  City  Cle rk to e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Offic e Certifie d L ocal Government (CL G) Gr ant Ag reement in order to de velop a
Downtown Cheyenne Facade Improvement Program – referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr.
Allen and Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd the  City  Cle rk to execute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) Grant Agreement in order to fund a Historic
Cheyenne Film Contest Project – referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Allen and Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the first quarterly report ending March 31, 2013, of the cumulative
funds transferred to the State of Wyoming participating municipalities from the State Small Business
Credit Initiative – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and RBC Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc. to
provide Investment Advisory Services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5977)
  
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and C heyenne Youth B aseball League for the provision of conc ession services at the
Dutcher Baseball Complex Concession and Restroom Facility.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5978)
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Chey enne Junior L eague Baseball for the provision of c oncession services at the
Cheyenne Junior League Baseball Complex Concession and Restroom Facility.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5979)
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Warren Federal Credit Union to p ermit
limited use of the public right-of-way for the installation of fiber optics, and setting a fee.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried ($750.00 revenue to City for 5 year agreement). (#5980)
[CA] Hunter Management Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department, and
the State of Wyoming, Game and Fish Department, for the Lone Tree Hunter Management Area on the
Belvoir Ranch.  Moti on (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a pproximate annua l reve nue to City  of
$2,268.00). (#5981)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County Community
Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth at Carey Junior
High School (21  Century Communi ty Learning Ce nters Cohort Five  g rant funds) .  Motion (perst
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5982)
[CA] Real Estate Purchase Agreement between W. E. Dinneen, Inc., and the City of Cheyenne, for
the City’s purchase of various parcels of real property generally located within Block 353, Original City,
between Pioneer an d Thomes Avenues and between 17  and 18  Streets, Cheyenne, W yoming,th th
commonly known as  405 West 18  Street, 1704 Pioneer Avenue, 410 West 17  Street, and 416 Westth th
17  Street, which are owned by W.E. Dinneen, Inc. (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) – referredth
to Committee of the Whole.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department a nd L aramie Cou nty, Wy oming, f or ho using City  pr isoners a t th e L aramie Cou nty
Detention Center – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and  Laramie
County, Wyoming, to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College,
City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to the City – r eferred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Boys and Girls Club of Cheyenne, Inc., for lease
of City-owned real property located at 1700 Snyder Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects for design
of Household Hazardous Waste Facility (SLIB Grant funding) – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5922 betwe en the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Simon Contractors, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to increase the quantity of
structural concrete retaining and wingwalls for the Cheyenne Greenway Walterscheid Underpass Project
(1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax, Miscellaneous Federal grants).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $91,000.00). (#5922)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5968 between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne
Umpires Association to provide umpire services for the 2013, 2014 and 2015 Softball Seasons (softball
registration revenue) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5737 between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and 360ne tworks (USA) inc ., to add additional fiber optics in the public rig ht-of-way
(revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-24-13 for furnishing and installing playground systems for JL Ranch
Park fr om Grea t Western Park and Play ground, Wellsvill e, Uta h, for the Par ks and Recr eation
Department (Community Facility fees).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed
$42,852.20).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-10-13 for a contract for the Snyder Avenue Reconstruction project
between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(2003-2006, 2007-2010, 2011- 2014 1 % Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of the a ppointment of Robert G. Ge ringer as City Engineer, to be
confirmed April 22, 2013.
Announcement was made of the appointment of Michael J. Sorenson to the Laramie County
Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board, to be confirmed April 22, 2013.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 22, 2013 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance of
annexation c onditions r equired b y Wyo. Sta t. § 15-1-402 e xist f or a  pa rcel la nd be ing sit uated in
portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23, 27, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th p.m., Laramie
County, Wyoming, to be known as the Swan Ranch II Annexation (located northwest of the intersection
of Clear Creek Parkway and Tundra Drive).
Under other business:
Pete Laybourn thanked Council members for supporting the traffic study to be conducted at the
intersection of Pershing Blvd. and Duff Avenue.  He expressed concerns with the “failure” of concrete
at the intersection as well as other locations within the City, and requested Council members be diligent
in having good quality concrete for street, curb and gutter projects.
Lee Filer, state legislative representative, expressed concerns on the following issues: Repair
costs of a sewer l ine i ncurred b y a c onstituent a nd C ity vs. h omeowner’s a rea o f r esponsibility;
sanitation fee  assessme nts involving 40 tena nts in the Majestic apa rtment building; manda tory
residential recycling bin fee; deterioration of curbs, gutters and sidewalks in certain neighborhoods,
specifically citing an area near Walterscheid and Fox Farm; small business owner concerns relating to
communication o f i nformation b y Bu ilding, P lanning and Fi re De partments i nvolving z oning,
development, licensing and inspections, and need for flashing lights and crosswalks, in addition to
current signage, near certain elementary schools for student crossing safety.  During queries raised by
Representative Filer throughout his statements, Mayor Kaysen offered to meet with the constituent and
City staff relative to the sewer line topic; and Jim Elias, Public Works Director, and Nathan Beauheim,
Acting City Engineer, provided information available involving the topics of sanitation and recyling
fees, and schedule of certain street repairs/renovation projects.  Com ments made by some Council
members regarded a suggested area that should be revie wed for street repairs or reconstruction and
flashing lights/crosswalk designations at certain schools; residential responsibility involving sewer lines,
and level of state funding assistance to municipalities.
Upon inquiry regarding street sweeping operations sometimes occurring the same day as trash
receptacles are placed in the street for sanitation pick-up, Mr. Elias advised at times scheduling is
difficult to re-arrange for coordination of spring clean-up and that routes and times change, but they do
try to stagger the schedule to avoid overlapping of operations.
There being no other business raised by the public and City Council members, Dan White, City
Attorney, requested the governing body meet in executive session, pursuant to provisions of Wyo. Stat.
16-4-404 (a) (iii) and (ix), to receive legal advice on two different matters -- potential settlement of a
claim asserted against the City which, in the absence of a settlement, could result in litigation against
the City, and poten tial need for the City  to initi ate litigation processes in another matter  involving
applicable provisions of state law.  D r. Rinne moved to mee t in executive session, seconded by Mr.
Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Mayor Kaysen
announced members would meet in executive session in Council Chambers, not open to the public;
requested the City Attorney, City Clerk, and others as requested by the City Attorney, be present at the
executive session, and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the
executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close of
the executive session.  (City Clerk Note: Following a brief recess, executive session convened at 7:28
p.m.)
The meeting was officially adjourned at 8:11 p.m. following conclusion of the executive session.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 April 18, 2013
