MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-04-22 | CLIP_ID: 370 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 370

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 April 22, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms.
Williams.   Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of contained  [CA]  are considered
to be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by Ms. Broyles
and Mr. Brown, agenda item #22(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  M r. Allen moved to
approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr.  Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 8, 2013.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve pa yment of vouche rs as pre sented, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input to determine whether
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land being
situated in  portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23, 27, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th p.m.,
Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as the Swan Ranch II Annexation (located northwest of the
intersection o f Cl ear Cr eek Pa rkway a nd T undra D rive).  Jim  F lesher, Pl anning Se rvices D ept.,
reviewed requirements and compliance of conditions contained in Wy o. Stat. §15-1-402, including
specific information indicating compliance with Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402(a)(i) through (vi).  Upon inquiry,
Mr. Flesher verified the area involved as depicted on the map he displayed during his comments and
advised a zone chang e for either c ommercial or industrial use will be forthcoming.  He state d the
annexation resolution and subsequent ordinance will run concurrently with the site plan, and advised
additional future annexation of property in the area is planned.  There being no further comments or
input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1, Medium Density Residential-Established to NR-3,
Neighborhood Residential-High Density for the West 44-feet of Lot 4, Block 259, Original City,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of 21  Street and Maxwell Avenue).  Reportingst
for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from P, Public, to CBD, Central Business District for the south
½ of Lots 1 and 2, and 16-foot vacated alley, Block 229, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
west of and adjacent to Pioneer Avenue, between 21  and 22  Streets).  Mr. Allen moved to approvest nd
on second r eading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of  the
governing body.
ORDINANCE - Vacating portions of Duff Avenue and E. 13th Street adjacent to Blocks 443,
444, 453 and 454, Or iginal Cit y, Cheyenne, Wyoming ( located south of E . L incolnway, west of
Alexander Avenue).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the City of Cheyenne’s 2013- 2014 Annual Action Plan prepared
by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5484)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat f or Ok ie
Addition, First Filing, a portion of  Section 28, T.14N., R.67W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
at the northeast corner of E. Pershing Boulevard and Windmill Road, near East High School).  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5485)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for F incher
Block, 2  Filing, a re plat of L ots 1 through 12, B lock One, F incher Block, Cheyenne, Wyomingnd
(located between Morrie and Bradley Avenues, and between E. 22  and 23  Streets).  Motion (pernd rd
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5486)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the  Fisca l Yea r 2013 budg et of the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5487)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the M ayor a nd the  City  Cle rk to e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) Grant Agreement to update the City’s Historic
Preservation ordinance.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5488 Res/#5986 Con)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Auth orizing the  Ma yor a nd the  City  Cle rk to e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Offic e Certifie d L ocal Gove rnment (CL G) Grant Ag reement in order to de velop a
Downtown Cheyenne Facade Improvement Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5489
Res/#5987 Con)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd the C ity Cle rk to e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) Grant Agreement in order to fund a Historic
Cheyenne Film Contest Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5490 Res/#5988 Con)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the first quarterly report ending March 31, 2013, of the cumulative
funds transferred to the State of Wyoming participating municipalities from the State Small Business
Credit Initiative.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5491)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the Title VI Program for the Cheyenne Transit Program, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, and the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Ms. Williams).
Real Estate Purchase Agreement between W. E. Dinneen, Inc., and the City of Cheyenne, for
the City’s purchase of various parcels of real property generally located within Block 353, Original City,
between P ioneer a nd T homes Av enues an d b etween 1 7  an d 1 8  S treets, Cheyenne, W yoming,th th
commonly known as  405 West 18  Street, 1704 Pioneer Avenue, 410 West 17  Street, and 416 Westth th
17  Street, which are owned by W.E. Dinneen, Inc. (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Chiefth
Brian Kozak, Cheyenne Police Department, provided a slide presentation entitled “Cheyenne Public
Safety Center Land Acquisition Report”, and discussed the background and general overview of the new
public safety building project which is initially planned to house the Police Department, Cheyenne Fire
and Rescue  Depa rtment Administration, L aramie County  Combined Comm unications Center,
Emergency Operations Center, and Cheyenne Victim Services.  He  advised the infor mation he was
presenting was basically the same as what was provided at the recent Committee of the Whole meeting.
Chief Kozak’s presentation topics included the following: Space needs assessment conducted in 2009;
professional consultants utilized to conduct various analysis involving sites,  engineering, concrete and
structural reviews and studies, energy efficiency, architectural concepts  and construction cost modeling;
background of property sites that were researched and factors evaluated in reviewing potential sites;
operational and security benefits of the proposed Dinneen property; conceptual building renovation and
floor p lan a nd s ite f ootprint; estimated p roject c osts; f uture b uilding s ite e xpansion o pportunity;
elements of the property appraisal and negotiated purchase price of $1.886 million dollars; maintaining
a downtown public safety presence; 6  penny sales tax approved by voters to fund the project and publicth
education efforts, including project information posted on the D epartment’s website, and numerous
planning and evaluation aspects involving the project.  During Chief Kozak’s comments, additional
information on other sites that were reviewed was provided by Lt. Mark Munari, Police Department.
Chief Kozak noted the following consultants in attendance at the meeting:  Ted Halsey, DLR Group;
Bryan Hemeyer, FCI Constructors; Stephan Pappas, Pappas and Pappas Architects; Ralph Rempel,
Martin/Martin Engineering; Bob Clary, structural engineer; and Clay Muirhead, Terracon Consultants.
The consultants provided information on the proposed site and existing building on the site, and other
sites reviewed, and responded to questions posed by the governing body.  Also offering comments in
support of acquisition of the Dinneen property were: Melissa Leger, Downtown Development Authority
(DDA) board member, noting the Dinneen site was presented to the voters as the proposed location;
John Sundahl, President, DDA, c ommenting in fa vor of the building  project being located in the
downtown a rea a nd a dding su pport to  do wntown r evitalization, a nd Mr . Pa ppas, sp eaking a s a
voter/taxpayer, who expressed his belief that acquiring the property would be a good fudiciary decision
and that appraisals are only an indication of what other properties are selling for at the time.  As a
follow-up to a slide shown by Chief Kozak during his presentation, Rick Fortney, Laramie County
Director of I nformation Technology, dis tributed copies of a n updated diag ram of c omputer inter-
connectivity between City and County offices, and discussed f iber optic c able connections and the
“ring” of infrastructure between the governmental agencies in the downtown area.  Subsequent to a
point of order raised by Mr. Allen that a speaker state their name for the record and with Mayor Kaysen
concurring, Glen Crumpton, Combined Communications Center, identified himself and advised he had
also been involved with the project since the beginning stages.  During comments, questions were posed
by members of  the g overning body to consultants and spea kers regarding review of other  potential
downtown building sites; elements considered during site evaluations; Phase I environmental study, and
groundwater concerns in the downtown area.  M r. Muirhead provided information on components
involved in a Phase I environmental study and what elements may be recognizable as a “risk” that could
involve a decision to conduct a Phase II study.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, verified that
the purchase agreement contemplates the City conducting and reviewing results of the Phase I study
prior to closing on the purchase of the property, and, based upon the results, the City could decide to
not move forward with the purchase or to proceed with a Phase II study.  In response to comments
involving the environmental study, Chief Kozak noted that one of the benefits of the site is that there
will be no need to disturb the ground.  Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Dr. Rinne stated there
was no recommendation from the Committee.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Discussion included the following topics: Comments in support as well as non-support of purchasing
the prope rty; information contained in the L and Ac quisition Report; benef its o f a downtown
enforcement presence; due diligence on evaluation of potential building sites; property appraisal and
additional information being received (since the last (failed) action on proposed property acquisition
was taken by the governing body at its March 11, 2013 meeting) resulting in a negotiated purchase price
offered by the property owner; pros and cons of renovation of the existing building vs. constructing a
new building; site amenities, including covered and secured parking; concern with negotiating future
property acquisitions involving property appraisal vs. purchasing amount and maintaining taxpayers’
credibility; new construction offering an opportunity for a “state of the art” building and efficiencies,
and downtown a rea involving the Capit ol Basin and West Edge  drainage projects and c onceptual
revitalization.  Motion to approve carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr.
Rinne, Mr.  Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  V oting “no” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms.
Williams. (#5989)
Following a brief recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:14 p.m.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department a nd L aramie Cou nty, Wy oming, f or ho using City  pr isoners a t th e L aramie Cou nty
Detention Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5990)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and  Laramie
County, Wyoming, to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College,
City/County Health Department, and an a rea of Laramie County adjacent to the City .  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5991)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Boys and Girls Club of Cheyenne, Inc., for lease
of City-owned rea l property located a t 1700 Sny der A venue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5992)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects for design
of Household Hazardous Waste Facility (SLIB Grant funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5993)
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Municipal Court, and L aramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for Municipal Court security services -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department, and
AVI Professional Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Logan Avenue Reconstruction Design
Project ( 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5968 between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne
Umpires Association to provide umpire services for the 2013, 2014 and 2015 Softball Seasons (softball
registration revenue).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5968)
Amendment No. 1 to Contrac t No. 5737 between  the City of Chey enne, E ngineering
Department, and Zayo Group, LLC f/k/a 360networks (USA) inc., to add additional fiber optics in the
public right-of-way (revenue to City).  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon
inquiry, Nathan Beauheim, Acting City Engineer, advised the substitute slightly changes language in
the agreement at the request of Zayo Group’s attorney, and amends the map to add a  “leg” onto the
system that h ad p reviously b een d iscussed b ut w as o verlooked in  p lacement o n th e in itial ma p
submitted.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion
as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5737)
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 5853 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of
Wyoming, to dec rease the pre miums by 2.75%, a nd extend the ter m one additional y ear for de ntal
coverage for full time city employees -- referred to Finance Committee.  
Consideration of Bid #M-10-13 for a contract for the Snyder Avenue Reconstruction project
between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(2003-2006, 2007-2010, 2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Sam Berta, Engineering Dept., advised Simon
Contractors submitted the lowest bid which includes Alternate A.  Mr. Brown moved to accept the bid
in an amount not to exceed  $5,669,859.20, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Comments followed regarding the
governing body being informed of any long term impact of construction projects to businesses or
homeowners in the are a.  Upon inquiry , Mr. B erta provided infor mation pertaining to an on- street
parking issue involving a business that was impacted due to a prior W. Pershing/Snyder project, and
clarified that no private parking area was affected.  Nathan Beauheim, Acting City Engineer, advised
a convenience store business located at the corner of Randall and Snyder had implemented an off-street
parking area on the west side of the building, noting this is in violation of city ordinance, and pursuant
to the rec onstruction project the parking  area will be re moved.  He advised the situation has be en
discussed with the owner.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Berta explained that Alternate A involves using a square
box instead of a round outfall pipe, which will provide savings in the amount of $200,000, and reviewed
the physical location of the project area.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body. (#5994)
Appointment of Robert G. Geringer as City Engineer.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve, seconded
by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception
of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Appointment of Michael J. Sorenson to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint
Powers Board.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral
appointment).
 
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at the
2013 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Annual Convention -- referred to Finance Committee.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 8:20 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 May 3, 2013
