MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-05-13 | CLIP_ID: 373 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 373

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 May 13, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.   Absent:  Mr. Brown, Mr.
Cook, Mr. Valdez.  Also prese nt: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Da n
White, City Attorney.  Members of the Mighty Eagles 4-H Club led the pledge of allegiance.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of contained  [CA]  are considered
to be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Allen moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 22, 2013.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to S ection 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1, Medium Density Residential-Established to NR-3,
Neighborhood Residential-High Density for the W est 44-feet of Lot 4, Block 259, Original City,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of 21  Street and Maxwell Avenue).  Reportingst
for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by
Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#3972)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, Section  5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from P, Public, to CBD, Central Business District for the south
½ of Lots 1 and 2, and 16-foot vacated alley, Block 229, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
west of and adjacent to Pioneer Avenue, between 21  and 22  Streets).  Mr. Allen moved to approvest nd
on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present. (#3973)
ORDINANCE - Vacating portions of Duff Avenue and E. 13th Street adjacent to Blocks 443,
444, 453 and 454, Or iginal Cit y, C heyenne, Wyoming ( located south of E . L incolnway, west of
Alexander Avenue).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#3974)
ORDINANCE - A pproving and esta blishing revised water and sewer  rates, tap and sy stem
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties and septic and commercial waste
dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor
-- Mr. Brown).
ORDINANCE -  Am ending the City of  Che yenne’s Sa nitation Fee Sc hedule -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
 
ORDINANCE - A ppropriating moneys for the City  of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the va rious
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, all for the Fiscal Ye ar
beginning July 1, 2013, and ending June 30, 2014 -- referred to Committee of the Whole (sponsor --
Mr. Brown).
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-2 Medium Density Residential - Developing District
to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential - High Density District for Lot 14, Block 1, Saddle Ridge, Fifth
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Countryside Avenue
and Medicine Man Trail) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Amending various Sections of Title 8, Health and Safety, Chapter 8.08, Alarm
Systems, of the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to Alarm Devices and Systems, and False Alarms --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna,
Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams).
ORDINANCE - Granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to Cheyenne Light, Fuel and
Power Company, its successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute natural gas to the
City and to all persons, businesses, and industry within a portion of the City in Cheyenne Light, Fuel
and Power Company’s Certificated Territory and the right to acquire, construct, install, locate, maintain,
operate and extend into, within and through said City all facilities reasonably necessary to furnish, sell
and distribute natural gas within the City and the right to make reasonable use of all streets and other
public places and public easements as herein defined as may be necessary; and fixing the terms and
conditions thereof -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the Title VI Program for the Cheyenne Transit Program, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, and the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5492)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing submission of an application to the Wy oming Department of
Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Program Grant, for the purpose of assisting
in providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit Program, as
authorized by 49 U.S.C. § 5311 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the budget of the Downtown Development Authority for the Fiscal
Year beginning July 1, 2013 and ending June 30, 2014 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr.
Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fisc al Yea r 2013 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor
-- Mr. Brown). 
[CA]     Preliminary Plat for Polk Addition, a replat of portions of Tract 145-148, Sunnyside Addition,
Fifth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of East Pershing Boulevard and Polk
Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
 
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Municipal Court, and L aramie County Sheriff’s
Department and L aramie County, Wyoming, for Municipal Court security  services.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $3,500.00 monthly). (#5999)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department, and
AVI Professional Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Logan Avenue Reconstruction Design
Project ( 2011- 2014 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (amount not to ex ceed
$490,693.00). (#6000)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School District
No.1 for School Resource Officer for summer school 2013 -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for use of the land
known as the “South 40" located off Missile Drive and owned by F.E. Warren Air Force Base for public
transportation service dur ing the 2013 Chey enne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to F inance
Committee.
     
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School
District N o. 1 f or us e of  bu ses o wned b y the  L aramie Cou nty Sc hool D istrict No. 1 for  pu blic
transportation se rvice during the 2013 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred t o Fi nance
Committee.
   
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for use of buse s
owned by the Laramie County School District No. 1 for public transportation service during the 2013
Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., for usage of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities associated
with the 2013 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing between the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Laramie County School District No.1 to provide transportation services for the City’s
Summer Recreation Camp Program -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Union Telephone Company for limited use
of the public rig ht-of-way for the installation of f iber optics, and setting a fee (revenue to City ) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Servic es Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Sanitation Division, and
DesertMicro, Jacksonville, Florida, for City sanitation trucks Global Positioning System (GPS) waste
management and hauling software -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 5853 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of
Wyoming, to decrease the premiums by 2.75%, and extend the term one additional year for dental
coverage for full time city employees.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5853)
[CA] Amendment No. 3 to Contract No. 4353 between the City of Cheyenne and the Department of
the Air Force, Frances E. Warren Air Force Base Wyoming, for U.S.A.F. owned land known as the
“South 40" located off Missile Drive to be used and operated as a parking lot for public transportation
services during the 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebrations -- referred
to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Cont ract No. 5903 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Administration, and Pioneer Construction Co., Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming,  to complete the
Pioneer Park Concessions/Restroom Facility (Parks Projects funding) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5868 be tween the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Holliday Park Connector
Project to reduce the remaining retainage to 5% of the most recent payment request (2007-2010, 2011-
2014 1% Sales Tax & 1% Specific Purpose Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5394 between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works
Department, Facilities Maintenance Division, and Ameri-Tech HVAC Services to exercise the option
clause extending the current contract for mechanical, heating, ventilating, and air conditioning system
maintenance for City buildings -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-25-13 for furnishing small equipment for a new fire and rescue truck
for the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue Department (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at the
2013 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Annual Convention.  M otion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried (Mayor Richard L. Kaysen, Official Voting Delegate; City Clerk Carol Intlekofer, Alternate
Delegate).
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointment of Joe Bonds to the Board of Public Utilities,
to be confirmed May 28, 2013.
Announcement was made of the Appointments of James Murphy to the Board of Publ ic
Utilities, and Carol Busbee, to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed May
28, 2013.
Announcement was made that due to the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 27, 2013, the
regularly scheduled meeting of the Governing Body will instead be held on Tuesday, May 28, 2013
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 6:11 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 May 20, 2013