MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-05-28 | CLIP_ID: 375 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 375

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 May 28, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen (arriving at 6:01 p.m.), Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr.
Shanor, Mr. Valdez  and Ms. Williams.   Absent: Dr. Rinne.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City
Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney. 
Expression of Appreciation to Mayor’s Youth Council and State of the Youth report.  Jan
Spires, Mayor’s Youth Council Coordinator, welcomed the Mayor’s Youth Council members and
their families and introduced Kadi Davis, Youth Council Chair.  Ms. Davis provided a State of the
Youth report, which focused on the topic of teamwork, and described various activities the group
participated in during the past year. She noted one issue they concentrated on, which was to help
raise funds to bring Miss Cheyenne Blokker of the Netherlands to visit Cheyenne.  Mayor Kaysen
and Ms. Spires  commended members of the 2012-2013 Youth Council for their accomplishments
and presented them with a certificate and gift of appreciation.  Th ose recognized were Juliette
Givhan - Vice-Chair, Tyler Bedwell, Savannah Brown, Jon Chenchar, Alex Cole, Ian Dome, Alex
Farkas, John Matsen, Rachel Mosele y and Jacob Peterson.  Ms. Da vis was also presented with a
plaque and gift of appreciation recognizing her service during the past school year as chair of the
Youth Council.  May or Ka ysen fur ther e xpressed appre ciation to members f or their time,
commitment and dedication, and thanked the members’ families for their support.
Consent Ag enda. ( All ag enda items listed with the desig nation of conta ined  [CA]  are
considered to be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will
be no separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Cook, and pursuant to
support received by Mr. Allen and Ms. Broyles, agenda item #24(h) was removed from the Consent
Agenda. Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Allen and Ms.
Broyles, agenda item #25(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Allen  moved to approve
remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 13, 2013.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve pa yment of vouche rs as pre sented, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Approving and establishing revised water and sewer rates, tap and system
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties and septic and commercial waste
dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr.
Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry pertaining to a
letter received by governing body members from Edward Strader, questioning the assessment of water
rates f or mul ti-family un its vs . s ingle family residences, Ti m Wils on, D irector, Board of  Pub lic
Utilities (BOPU), explained the water rate structure.  He advised the current structure was established
and adopted by the g overning body in 2004, noting it was de veloped through use of a n outside
consulting firm in conjunction with the BOPU Master Plan, and provides for tiered water rates.  He
explained the different categories of water users and how each rate is designed to meet costs associated
with providing se rvices to the differ ent types of c ustomers and not on the number of  people that
occupy a building, lot size or number of families in a building.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, and Ms. Williams
voting “no.”
 
ORDINANCE - A mending the City  of Chey enne’s Sanitation Fee  Schedule.  Mr. B rown
reported there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Comments followed regarding expenses the
fees help cover for numerous City services and operations; awareness that some departmental services
do not generate revenue, and concern with non-competitive wages and employee turn-over.  Ms.
Broyles moved to amend to provide for a 3.4% increase in the sanitation fee schedule with a directive
that all full-time City employees, with the exception of uniformed Fire and Board of Public Utilities
employees, current and future will be compensated at a minimum of  not less than $12.00 per hour
effective July 1, 2013, seconded by Mr. Allen.  It was advised that currently there are approximately
36 employees who would be affected by the amendment.  Joe Dougherty, Cheyenne Transit Director,
spoke in support of the amendment and requested that permanent part-time Transit employees also be
considered relative to the intent of the amendment.  Rich Wiederspahn, Human Resources Director,
and Jim Elias, Public Works Director, spoke in favor of the amendment, commenting on the difficulty
of attracting employees at the City’s current starting salary, which is $10.50-$11.00 per hour. Upon
inquiry, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, provided information on estimated cost to implement the change
if the amendment was approved.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, clarified the amendment
being proposed is considered an oral amendment to the motion to approve on 2  reading, essentiallynd
earmarking a certain amount of fee revenue to be used to set a minimum wage for City employees at
$12.00 per hour, and if approved, language will be added to the ordinance that will be included on 3rd
reading of the ordinance.  M s. Broyles clarified her motion did not include permanent part-time
employees.  U pon inquiry  reg arding the def inition of a permane nt part-time employ ee, Rich
Wiederspahn explained there are part-time employees whose positions are considered to be permanent
positions and have an e xpectation of employ ment over time ve rsus seasonal employees who are
considered temporary employees.  Discussion topics included: Comments in support as well as non-
support of the a mendment; computing c osts to include permane nt part-time employ ees; diverting
income streams for the purpose of the amendment; transparency in accounting relative to sanitation
fees; suggestion of forming a task force to study and evaluate the sanitation revenue structure, and the
different ty pes of sanitation fee s.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Elias provided infor mation available on
automated vs. prior  manual sanitation pick-ups r elative to chang es in manpowe r, and c urrent
constraints involving labor and equipment to expand recycling program services.  Upon further inquiry
regarding use of temporary labor services, such as LaborReady contractual services, Mr. Elias advised
of the per hour cost to the City to hire temporary personnel through an employment agency and types
of work areas assigned to temporary personnel.  Mr. Brown raised a point of order that a discussion
topic involving sanitation tipping fees was not germane to t he motion to a mend on the floor with
Mayor Kaysen advising discussion should pertain to the motion to amend topic.  Following  further
comments on effect of the amendment on employees generally, motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes”
-- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr.
Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Upon further inquiry, Mr. Elias explained that temporary labor
individuals (i.e. utilized through an employment agency) are not City employees; receive no City
benefits; that background checks and liability fall under the agency’s responsibility and policies; that
those individuals can not operate City vehicles; that duration of services is based on labor needs, and
that in addition to utilization of temporary labor for Sanitation, other City departments also utilize this
option for labor assistance on a temporary basis.  In response to Ms. Williams comments involving
various sanitation service areas, Mayor Kaysen requested she submit her questions in writing to Mr.
Elias to provide for complete and accurate answers.  Comments of conce rn followed on sanitation
operational costs, evaluation and transparency of same, and sanitation fee revenue being used to defray
general fund expenses for sanitation as well as other departmental expenses.  Main motion as amended
carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting
“no” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.
ORDINANCE - Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the r evenue required to meet the said appropriation, all for the F iscal Year
beginning July 1, 2013, and ending June 30, 2014.  A summary of proposed funds and budget amounts
are as follows:  General Fund $54,661,323; Weed and Pest $516,000; Youth Alternatives Grants
$391,602; Co mmunity F acility F ees $ 151,000; R ecreation Pr ograms $ 1,111,000; C ommunity
Development Block Grant $651,581; 1% Sales Tax Fund $12,607,309; Solid Waste Management Fund
$7,560,110; Law Enforcement Grants $179,609; Transportation Planning $828,209; FTA Transit
Grant $1,982,001; Juvenile Justice $311,757; Special Friends $134,173; Special Purpose Option Tax
$167,446; Youth Activities $13,100;  Golf Facilities $200,000; Civic Center $993,393; Ice and Events
Center $510,242, and Cemetery Perpetual Fund $20,000 -- Total City proposed budget $82,989,855.
Water Department $27,942,800, and Sewer Department $13,133,400 -- Total Board of Public Utilities
proposed budget $41,076,200, for a total proposed budget appropriation of $124,066,055.  Following
a five minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 7:30 p.m.  Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
advised she had issued a memo on this date to governing body members addressing concerns raised
at the Committee of the Whole meeting regarding recurring revenues.  She reviewed certain pages of
the budg et book that have  been r evised to  move $263,802 of e xpenditures f rom the Specia l
Distribution line item (state f unding) to the I mpact Assistance Distribution line item, which is not
restricted in use.  Rick Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation, and Rich Wiederspahn, Director of
Human Resources, commented in support of the proposed cost of living salary adjustment (COLA)
for City employees, noting municipal services provided and dedication by employees.  Included in Mr.
Wiederspahn’s comments was a request for separate consideration of the issue of a COLA apart from
the Employ ee I nvestment S tudy (EI S), which has not y et bee n rec eived in fina l form from the
consultant and involves new proposed salary ranges for job positions.  Also speaking in favor of the
COLA was Joe Dougherty, Director of Transit, who spoke in favor of providing the COLA to full-time
and permanent part-time employees, and Sara V asquez, Cheyenne Public Employ ees Association
(CPEA) President and Assistant Director of Pu rchasing.  M s. Vasquez encouraged City Council
members to not consider the topics of a COLA and the EIS in the same category, and to wait until the
EIS recommendations have been received to address any salary adjustment implementation plans.  She
spoke in favor of the proposed 2.25% COLA as initially presented in the budget, a nd ex pressed
concerns with potential unequitable employee salary adjustments due to the amendment made at the
Committee of the Whole meeting; pending firefighter labor union arbitration involving salaries; Board
of Public Utilities (BOPU) employee salary increases, and effect of the amendment passed earlier in
the meeting with regard to t he Sanitation fee ordinance.  Re porting for Committee of the Whole
(COW), Ms. Broyles moved to approve on 2  reading, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Pursuant to COWnd
recommendation, Ms. Broyles moved to amend as follows: “ ...That to the extent the various line items
in Section 1. of the budg et ordinance include the  appropriation of funds n ecessary to provide the
proposed 2.25% pay increase for City employees, said funds be held in re serve until the Employee
Investment Study is received and that said funds be re-appropriated from reserves at such times and
subject to such terms and conditions as the governing body shall determine, provided, however, that
this amendment shall not apply to those line items in Section 1. of the budget ordinance which include
provisions for the compensation of firefighters who are members of I.A.F.F. Local #279 or to those
line items in Section 1. which include provisions for the compensation of employees of the Board of
Public Utilities.  The 2.25% inc rease for the firefighters would not bec ome effective until after a n
arbitration award is entered.”  Mr. Shanor seconded the motion.  Following comments, Mr. Cook
moved to amend the amendment to incorporate a .50 cent per hour increase across the board for all
full-time employees effective July 1, 2013.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Cook confirmed Board of Public
Utilities and firefighters (union) employees would not be addressed as part of the motion.  Pursuant
to a point of clarification raised by Mr. Allen regarding wording of the motion, and upon request by
Mayor Ka ysen, Carol I ntlekofer, City  Clerk, re cited the wording of the motion to amend the
amendment.  Mr. Brown raised a point of order questioning whether the intent of the motion was to
replace the previous pending (COW) amen dment or if it was intended to somehow run concurrent
with the previous motion to amend.  Mr. Cook verified the intent of the motion is to propose a .50 cent
salary increase in lieu of the proposed 2.25% COLA and replace the previous amendment on the floor.
Mr. Brown seconded Mr. Cook’s motion to amend the amendment.  D an W hite, City Attorney,
cautioned that if the second amendment is intended to replace the first amendment, it may have an
effect on firefighters and BOPU employees, stating he was not certain that City Council has the ability
to micro-manage BOPU with regard to its employees’ salaries and he also was not certain what effect
the second amendment would have on firefighters’ salaries.  Mr. Dougherty commented in support of
the second amendment a lso including pe rmanent part-time employ ees.  D iscussion followed and
included the following topics: Proposed .50 cent per hour increase vs. 2.25% COLA; amendment(s)
not including firefighters at this time due to current ongoing arbitration; past BOPU employee study
that had been conducted; 3.4% consumer price index rate relative to the proposed 2.25% COLA; value
and priority rec ognition of employ ees; systemic problem re lative to an on- going plan for sa lary
compensation adjustments; history leading to the EIS being conducted and implementation procedure
envisioned, and status of anticipated receipt of the EIS.  During discussion Ms. Huff advised the cost
was approximately the same between a .50 cent or 2.25% COLA, as computed on the number of full-
time employees only, and verified all employees are paid on an hourly basis with some being classified
as salaried positions.  Tim Wilson, Director, Board of Public Utilities, advised the Board has approved
a 2.25% increase for its employees, consistent with what was being proposed in the City’s budget, to
be effective July 1, 2013.  He provided information pertaining to the BOPU comprehensive analysis
on employee positions and salaries conducted by an outside firm a few years ago, noting annual review
of compensation levels is conducted on a regional market basis.  Pursuant to comments on the EIS,
Mayor Kaysen provided an update on the study, advising the consultant planned to be in Cheyenne
next month and is working on completion of the three step study plan, and a work session with City
Council would be scheduled.  He further explained the time frame to receive the study was longer than
anticipated as the consultant had to re-build the nearly 20-year old current compensation plan.  Point
of clarification on the motion to amend the amendment, relative to the first motion to amend (i.e. COW
recommended amendment), was raised by Ms. Broyles, who noted her concern that each motion to
amend should be voted on separately, particularly due to pending firefighter arbitration and for fairness
reasons.  M ayor Kaysen advised if the second amendment is a pproved, it w ould replace the first
motion to amend, and that procedure-wise following the vote on the motion to amend the amendment,
then a vote w ould then be ca lled for on the initial motion to amend, potentially  as ame nded.
Continuing discussion included comments on: Focusing on dollars and certain levels of compensation
and market value pr ior to deciding on any per hour  raise a mount; support and non-support of the
motion to amend the amendment, and concern that the pending motion should exclude BOPU and fire
union employees.  Mr. Cook requested his motion to amend the amendment be withdrawn, advising
a different amendment may then be proposed to exclude BOPU and firefighters.  Mr. White stated
Robert’s Rules of Order is clear that once a motion has been made and seconded, the motion is the
property of the City  Council as a whol e and can not be withdraw n in the absenc e of una nimous
consent.  Mr. White reviewed the options available to address Mr. Cook’s request, which were to
either unanimously agree to Mr. Cook’s request to withdraw his motion, or to vote on his motion to
amend the amendment.  Following a point of order raised by Mr. Allen questioning whether discussion
had been closed, Mayor Kaysen called for further discussion by Council members.  Pursuant to inquiry
involving the leng th of time since the last COL A for e mployees w as appr oved, Mayor Ka ysen
provided information involving the history of COLA adjustments and one-time salary increases since
2009; budget constraints and revenue shortfalls in the subsequent fiscal budget year since that COLA
which affected the ability to provide increases, noting employee staffing reductions also occurred at
that time, and an across the board adjustment of $1,000 effective July 1, 2011.  He advised employees
have not received any type of compensatory relief since then as funds have not been available, citing
restrictions placed on recent state funds allocated to municipalities and noting that through the FY2014
budgeting process, revenue projections vs. expenses determined the  budget could support a 2.25%
COLA.  Upon further inquiry, Mayor Kaysen reviewed the history and initiation of the EIS, which was
funded by employee health insurance savings and was pursuant to a request to conduct the study from
employee groups.  He further informed that an employee committee, excluding himself, was formed
and the group interviewed responders to the EIS request for proposals; that the effort is employee-
driven and the committee is still i nvolved, and tha t it is envisioned that some employ ees will be
involved as part of the EIS implementation team once the study is received. Upon query, Ms. Vasquez
stated that CPEA had initially requested an across the board increase for the upcoming fiscal year and
that CPEA can support either the proposed across the board increase or COLA.  Motion to amend the
amendment failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body present.  Mr. Cook moved to
amend the amendment to approve a .50 cent an hour raise across the board for full-time employees.
Mr. White stated it would be helpful if the wording of the proposed amendment were clearly defined
relative to how the proposed amendment would change existing wording to the initial motion to amend
(i.e. COW recommended amendment).  M r. Brown raised a procedural point of order stating his
preference to separately address actions on the amendments.  Mr. Cook indicated he would not move
forward with completion of the wording of his motion.  Mr. Shanor moved to a mend the amended
budget (re: COW recommended amendment), explaining the proposed amendment is silent as to the
current amendment so that anytime it’s silent the remaining portions in the current amendment would
remain in effe ct, as follows: “ ...The  funds re garding employee raises placed into reserves by the
current amended budget be instead placed as a line item in the budget to be spent on employee raises
in FY2014 upon receipt of information regarding where each employee salary is compared to market
value from the consultant currently working on our employee investment study.  Under the current
employee classifications, any employee whose salary is determined by the consultant to be 2.25% or
more under maximum market value will be given a 2.25% raise immediately, retroactive to July 1,
2013.  Any employee whose salary is de termined by the consultant to be  2.24% t o . 1% u nder
maximum market value will be given a raise in a percentage that will bring that employee equal to
maximum market value but not over.  If any of these designated funds remain after raises are given,
such remainder shall be placed in reserves and utilized to implement an employee investment plan in
the FY2015 budget.”  Mr. Allen seconded the motion.  Ms. Vasquez commented on a past BOPU
position and compensation study  and spoke in support of the  2.25% COLA.  Mr. W iederspahn
explained the market survey portion of the EIS study was used to determine the pay plan and that the
value of a par ticular position, specific to the City  of Chey enne, was then de termined through the
consultant’s process which included employees’ questionnaires; discussions with supervisors and 10
factors utilized by the consultant to establish a particular range for a position and determine the value
of a position.  He discusse d elements involved in the differ ent factors; how changes in the marke t
(range) can occur, and cautioned the Council against being in the position of giving tacit approval of
the final study data which has not yet been seen or accepted.  Pursuant to comments concerning request
for clarity of the proposed motion, Mr. Shanor verified his proposed motion to amend the amendment
does not alter the first motion to amend (as recommended by COW), and would be an addition to the
wording contained in the motion to amend.  Mr. Brown raised a point of order requesting verification
that no amendments have  y et passed a nd questioned the motions on the floor.  May or Ka ysen
confirmed that no motions i nvolving amendments ha ve passe d.  Mr. White ex plained that Mr.
Shanor’s proposed amendment is intended to a dd to, and not chang e, the e xisting wording of the
recommended amendment from COW.  Mayor Kaysen advised of the motions before the body (i.e.
motion to amend (per COW recommendation) and subsequent motion to amend the amend ment;
explained procedurally the order in which the amendments would be acted upon, and confirmed there
were only two pending  amendments.  Upon r equest, Mr. Shanor  recited his moti on to amend the
amendment.  Continuing discussion included the following topics: Support and non-support of the
motion to amend the amendment; consultant being tasked with analysis of each position/salary area
in more finite detail than initially envisioned; comments that BOPU and firefighter positions should
be excluded fr om the amendments; support for employ ees a nd rec ognition of addressing  salary
inequities; amount of funds ava ilable to implement the proposed a mendment(s) and prioritizing of
same; long-range plan addressing compensation; compensating those employees under market value;
time frame that will be needed to completely put into effect all of the changes affiliated with the EIS;
timely adjustment for employees; working toward having a compensation plan in place for FY2015
following receipt of the study; effect of the amendment(s) on employee salaries relative to unknown
study data yet to be re ceived and appr oved; EIS providing a  minimum/maximum salary range for
positions; review and approval of the EIS recommendations by the governing body, and unknown
result of possible firefighter salary adjustments due to pending arbitration.  Pursuant to request during
discussion, Ms. Intlekofer read the initial moti on to amend (i.e. COW recommended amendment).
Upon inquiry, Ms. Huff advised that calculating salaries per the proposed motion on the floor will be
labor and time intensive to complete; Mayor Kaysen provided information on the intent of the EIS,
verifying that no current sala ries would be a djusted “down”  based on the  new pa y rang es, and
components of the study involving market analysis and development of a compensation plan based on
that data, a nd employ ee involveme nt during  the EI S process.  May or Ka ysen also provide d
information, per r equest, concerning the consultant’s prof essional services agreement, which wa s
approved through the City Council agenda process.  Ms. Broyles moved to strike the last sentence in
the motion to amend (i.e. COW recommended amendment) referencing that the 2.25% increase for
firefighters wouldn’t become effective until after an arbitration award.  Mr. White clarified the intent
of the effect of the pr oposed amendment as recommended by COW wit h regard to firefighter and
BOPU employees, and stated it is legally important to keep the 2.25% for firefighters in the budget by
retaining the last sentence in the COW recommended amendment.  He further stated his opinion that
based on specific state statutes relative to the Board of Public Utilities and its employees, the City
Council d oes n ot h ave the ri ght to  mic ro-manage B OPU wi th r egard to s alary a mounts fo r i ts
employees.  No second to the motion was received, and it was noted the motion on the floor was to
amend the amendment, not the initial motion to amend.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Wiederspahn stated the
consultant has indicated that market values can fluctuate based upon adjustments to the economy, and
provided information on the minimum, mean and maximum levels of pay ranges, noting specific
market data is not available for all positions; factors involving determination of the worth of a position,
and evaluation factors that will involve the City’s decision on how to implement the plan with regard
to placement of positions (salaries) within the ranges.  M otion to amend the amendment carried.
Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr.
Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Motion to amend as amended carried.  Voting
“yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown,
Ms. Broyles, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Main motion as amended failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr.
Allen, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook,
Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classific ation from MR-2 M edium Density Residential - De veloping
District to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential - High Density District for Lot 14, Block 1, Saddle Ridge,
Fifth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Countryside
Avenue and Medicine Man Trail).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Amending various Sections of Title 8, Health and Safety, Chapter 8.08, Alarm
Systems, of the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to Alarm Devices and Systems, and False Alarms.  Mr.
Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez. Upon inquiry, Police Chief
Brian Kozak advised notifica tion by letter to known a larm companies that will be aff ected will be
provided if the ordinance is approved, noting information will also be updated on the website.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Cook
voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to Cheyenne Light, Fuel and
Power Company, its successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute natural gas to the
City and to all persons, businesses, and industry within a portion of the City in Cheyenne Light, Fuel
and Power  Company ’s Certifica ted Ter ritory and the r ight to ac quire, c onstruct, install, locate,
maintain, operate and extend into, within and through said City all facilities reasonably necessary to
furnish, sell and distribute natural gas within the City and the right to make reasonable use of all streets
and other public places and public easements as herein defined as may be necessary; and fixing the
terms and conditions thereof.   Mr. B rown moved to a pprove on second reading, seconded by Mr.
Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
ORDINANCE - Amending  Chapter 5.12, Alc oholic Be verages, Section 5.12.030(A) ,
Application–Fees–Procedures, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City
Code to authorize one (1) additional dispensing room for restaurant liquor licensees upon application
to and appr oval by the Gover ning B ody of th e City of Cheyenne pur suant to the provisions of
Wyoming Statute §12-4-410(b), as amended, effective July 1, 2013 -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 3951 de fining the terms and c onditions of
employment for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen).
ORDINANCE - Amending Ordinanc e No. 3952 de fining the terms and c onditions of
employment for swor n officers of the City  of Chey enne Police D epartment -- re ferred to F inance
Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Program Grant, for the purpose of assisting
in providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit Program, as
authorized by 49 U.S.C. § 5311.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5493)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the budget of the Downtown Development Authority for the Fiscal
Year beginning July 1, 2013 and ending June 30, 2014.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5494)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2013 b udget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5495)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services by User’s Agreement with
Cronimet Holdings, Inc., Lot 2, Block 1, Swan Ranch Rail Park, Second Filing, Laramie County,
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Valdez).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle
Ridge, Fifth Filing, a replat of all of Block 7, and a portion of Countryside Avenue, Saddle Ridge,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Wilderness and Medicine
Man Trails) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A dopting the 8  Avenue  Corridor Plan  -- referred to Publi c Servic esth
Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen and Ms. Williams).
[CA]     Preliminary Plat for Polk Addition, a replat of portions of Tract 145-148, Sunnyside Addition,
Fifth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of East Pershing Boulevard and Polk
Avenue).  Motion to acknowledge receipt (per Consent Agenda) carried.
 
[CA] Contract between the City  of Chey enne, Police D epartment, and L aramie County School
District No.1 for School Resour ce Officer for summer school 2013. Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried (revenue to the City $5,248.00 plus overtime costs). (#6004)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for use of the land
known as the “ South 40" located off Missile Drive a nd owned by F.E. Warren Air Force Base for
public transportation service dur ing the 2013 Chey enne Frontier Days celebration.  Moti on (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6005)
     
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School
District N o. 1 for use of buse s o wned b y the  Laramie Cou nty Sc hool D istrict N o. 1 f or pu blic
transportation service dur ing the 2013 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6006)
   
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for use of buses
owned by the Laramie County School District No. 1 for public transportation service during the 2013
Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6007)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., for usage of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities associated
with the 2013 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6008)
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Laramie County School District No.1 to provide transportation services for the City’s
Summer Recreation Camp Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6009)
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Union Telephone Company for limited use
of the public rig ht-of-way for the installation of fiber  optics, and setting  a fe e (revenue to Cit y).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6010)
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division, and
DesertMicro, Jacksonville, Florida, for City sanitation trucks Global Positioning System (GPS) waste
management and ha uling softwa re. Mr . Br own moved to appr ove in a n amount not to ex ceed
$210,953.80, seconded by Mr. Valdez.   Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, advised the
GPS system will help automate route ma pping and establish more efficient cost-saving routes, and
explained the agreement has bee n structured to provide for  a not to exceed dollar  amount, noting
following review some add- on options may  not be utiliz ed which  would lower the  amount.  He
provided general information on functions of the GPS system, including truck-mounted cameras, and
other system benefits which will help recover costs, and provide for safety measures and more efficient
and effective operations.  Comments followed on cost of the system, including on-going costs, and
implementation of the system anticipated to save  money, and improve se rvice and safety.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#6011)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,  and
Laramie County School District No. 1 f or the construction of storm sewer improvements on East
Pershing Boulevard (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and RubinBrown LLP, Denver,
Colorado, to Audit the Financial Statements of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
Amendment No. 3 to Contract No. 4353 between the City of Cheyenne and the Department of
the Air Force, Frances E. Warren Air Force Base Wyoming, for U.S.A.F. owned land known as the
“South 40" located off Missile Drive to be used and operated as a parking lot for public transportation
services during the 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebrations.  Dan
White, City Attorney, advised it had been noticed that the contract contains some incorrect wording
and the Air Force has advised they would like to enter into a new contract, which will be introduced
on the agenda at a f uture date, instead of a mending the cur rent one, and he r equested the item be
withdrawn.  Upon inquiry and with no objection being raised by City Council members, Mayor Kaysen
announced the item was being withdrawn.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5903 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Administration, and Pioneer Construction Co., Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming,  to complete the
Pioneer Park Concessions/Restroom Facility (Parks Projects funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $14,875.02). (#5903)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5868 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Holliday Park Connector
Project to reduce the remaining retainage to 5% of the most recent payment request (2007-2010, 2011-
2014 1% Sales Tax & 1% Specific Purpose Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5868)
Contract Modification No. 2 to C ontract No. 5394 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, Facilities Maintenance Division, and Ameri-Tech HVAC Services to exercise the
option clause extending the current contract for mechanical, heating, ventilating, and air conditioning
system maintenance for City buildings.  Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest)
and vacated Council Chambers.  Ms. Broyles moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Comment
followed on the terms of the contract affiliated with renewal options.  Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public
Works Director, advised as this is a contract modification to the existing contract no request for bids
was issued; provided information on the number of bid packages issued for the initial contract that
resulted in one bid being submitted, and explained when the term of the modification expires in two
years, re-bidding f or ser vices will occ ur.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “y es” - - all member s of the
governing body prese nt in Council C hambers with the exception of Ms. Wi lliams voti ng “no”.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers. (#5394)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-25-13 for furnishing small equipment for a new fire and rescue truck
for the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue D epartment (2011- 2014 1% Sale s Tax).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from Front Range Fire Apparatus, Longmont, CO, in an amount
not to exceed $38,516.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-13-13 for a contract for the Fiscal Year 2013 City Overlay Project
between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction Division, and Simon Contractors, Inc., Cheyenne,
Wyoming (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-14-13 for a contract for the Fiscal Year 2013 concrete for Street &
Alley Overlay Part “A” Project between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction Division, and Simon
Contractors, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-28-13 f or fu rnishing fo ur ne w 2 013 v ehicles for the Pa rks &
Recreation Department (2 for Parks Division, and 2 for Recreation Division) (2011- 2014 1% Sales
Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-26-13 for f urnishing one new 2013 r egenerative air sweeper and
chassis for the City’s Street &  Alley Division (2007 - 2010 1%  Sales Tax) -- re ferred to F inance
Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-27-13 for furnishing one new dual solid drum articulating vibratory
roller f or the City ’s Street &  Alley Division  (2011- 2014 1% Sales Ta x) --  ref erred to Fina nce
Committee.
Re-Appointment of Joe Bonds to the Board of Public Utilities.  Mr. Allen moved to approve,
seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Appointments of James Murphy to the Board of Public Utilities, and Carol Busbee, to the
Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities.   Mr. Allen moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Shanor.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the g overning body present with the exception of
Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made that the local Wyoming Chapter for Multiple Sclerosis (MS) will be
sponsoring a C alcutta to be held June 20, 2013 beginning at 6:00 p.m. at Alf’s Pub and Package
Liquor, 1622 East 19th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the MS Society/Alf’s Pub
Golf Tournament (15% of proceeds to benefit the local MS Society).
Announcement was made that the Cheyenne Frontier Days Wild Horse Race Committee will
be sponsoring a Calcutta to be held July 18, 2013 beginning at 7:00 p.m. at The Redwood Lounge,
2105 East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the Cheyenne Frontier Days Wild
Horse Races (15% of the proceeds to benefit the CFD Scholarship Program). 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 10, 2013 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a restaurant liquor lic ense
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Anong Larsen and Brett Larsen d/b/a Anong’s Thai
Cuisine, 620 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 10, 2013 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public comments regarding
the intent of the City  of Chey enne to submit an application to the W yoming Business Council’s
Business Ready Community, Downtown Development Grant Program,  for funding for the Capital
Basin Flood Control Project (Trunkline Interceptor). 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 10, 2013 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for proposed budgets for the City of
Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2014. 
Under other business, Mayor Kaysen recognized the presence of County Commissioner Buck
Holmes at the meeting, and Mr. Shanor expressed appreciation to members of the public and City
Council for their input and  professional debate during the meeting.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 10:03 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 7, 2013