MEETING: City Council Meeting Special Session | DATE: 2013-06-04 | CLIP_ID: 377 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 377

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
June 4, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne convened in a special meeting on this date
beginning at 5:30 p.m. in Council Chambers for the purpose of reconsidering the FY2014 budget
ordinance on 2  Reading.  Present were:  MAYOR: Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -nd
Mr. B rown, Ms. B royles, Mr . Co ok, M r. L una, D r. Rin ne, M r. Sha nor, Mr . V aldez an d M s.
Williams.  Ab sent: Mr. Allen.  Also present were: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Reconsider Ordinance - 2  Reading - Approp riating moneys for the City  of Chey enne,ND
Wyoming, for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing
the a mount o f g eneral and special ta xes a s p art of  the  re venue re quired to  me et th e sa id
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2013, and ending June 30, 2014.  Ms. Broyles
indicated that a t the May 28  City Council meeting  the motion to approve on 2  reading theth nd
ordinance involving the FY2014 budget failed and, as she voted on the prevailing side and pursuant
to Chapter 2.04 of City Code, moved to reconsider the vote taken on the ordinance, seconded by Mr.
Brown.  Upon re quest, Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk, re ad the e ntitlement of the ordina nce to be
reconsidered as follows: Ordinance on 2  Reading Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne,nd
Wyoming, for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing
the a mount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet th e sa id
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2013, and ending June 30, 2014.  Ms. Broyles
stated that subsequent to the ordinance failing on 2  reading, and after reviewing the governingnd
body’s statutory responsibility under Wyo. Stat. §16-4-111(a), she was requesting support for the
motion to reconsider to mee t compliance with state law that requires the City to make necessary
appropriations and adopt the budget within 24 hours of the conclusion of the budget public hearing,
which is scheduled for 6:00 o’clock p.m. on June 10 .  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” --th
all m embers of  the  g overning bo dy pr esent.  Ma yor Ka ysen advi sed that since the  mot ion to
reconsider carried, the effect of the motion is to immediately place before the governing body the
main motion (as amended) to approve the budget ordinance on 2  reading as it was prior to the votend
taken at the May 28  meeting.  Sara Vasquez, President, Cheyenne Public Employees Associationth
(CPEA), advised that the Association “stands firm” on its support for a 2.25% COLA (cost of living
adjustment) effective July 1, 2013 as propose d in the in itial budget.  Maurine B ader, Wyoming
Liberty Group, e xpressed concern that taxpayers would be  burdened with paying for the cost of
salary increase, and referenced the stagnant economy and recent Bureau of Labor statistics indicating
Wyoming employment is shrinking.  She urged Council members to consider where the funds would
come from for the increases, and suggested the City eliminate services that compete with or could
be pr ovided mo re e fficiently by the  pr ivate se ctor.  D iscussion in cluded th e fo llowing top ics:
Information contained in a letter received on this date by governing body members from The Mercer
Group (consultant providing services for the Employee Investment Study (EIS)); data affiliated with
proposed COLA for e mployees; services to be pr ovided by and pay ments made to date to The
Mercer Group pursuant to contract and time frame in which to receive study results, and reference
to the Merc er Group letter and attorney-client information from the City  Attorney received by
governing body members associated with the previously approved (i.e. at the May 28  City Councilth
meeting) amendment to the main motion.  Upon inquiry during discussion, Mayor Kaysen provided
information pertaining to the proposed COLA relative to the annual Southeast Wyoming Consumer
Price Index; COLA’s for employees not provided on an annual basis due to past budgets not being
able to support an increase; last COLA provided in 2009 with a flat amount increase of $1,000 in
2011; additional scope of work requested of the consultant which has affected the time frame in
which to re ceive the study  (re: reconstructing the City ’s 20 y ear old pay  plan and e valuation of
certain job titles and positions that currently share common job titles but consist of different types
of duties per the departments involved; elements of the EIS involving consultant services providing
for review of job titles, positions and responsibilities; employees’ questionnaires, review and input
by managers, creation of a ne w pay plan (mar ket based), and e valuation of re quisite number of
employees needed in the va rious City divisions.)  He furthe r advised the  consultant anticipates
completing and submitting the EI S later this month.  Upon inquir y, Lois Huff, City  Treasurer,
advised that to date The Mercer Group has been paid approximately $38,000.  Comments followed
on the previous amendment (per the May 28  meeting) relative to information containe d in Theth
Mercer Group letter and the attorney-client communication from the City Attorney.  Ms. Broyles
raised a procedural question with regard to her intent to amend the main motion to strike the previous
amendment and whether the entire wording of the amendment was required to be stated as part of
the motion.  For informational purposes, Mayor Kaysen requested the City Clerk read the previously
approved amendment in its entirety, which was then read as follows by Ms. Intlekofer:  “That to the
extent the various line items in Section 1 of the budget ordinance include the appropriation of funds
necessary to provide the proposed 2.25% pay increase for City employees, said funds be held in
reserve until the Employee Investment Study is received and that said funds be re-appropriated from
reserves a t su ch ti mes a nd su bject to  su ch te rms a nd c onditions as the Governing B ody sh all
determine, provided, however, that this amendment shall not apply to those line items in Section 1
of the budg et ordinance whic h include provisions for the  compensation of Fire fighters who a re
members of I.A.F.F. Local #279 or to those line items in Section 1 which include provisions for the
compensation of employees of the Board of Public Utilities.  The 2.25% increase for the Firefighters
would not become e ffective until after  an ar bitration awa rd is enter ed.  The  funds re garding
employee raises placed into reserves by the current amended budget be instead placed as a line item
in the budget to be spent on employee raises in FY2014 upon receipt of information regarding where
each employee salary is compared to market value from the consultant currently working on our
Employee Investment Study.  Under the current employee classifications, any employee whose salary
is determined by the consultant to be 2.25% or more under maximum market value will be given a
2.25% raise immediately, retroactive to July 1, 2013.  Any employee whose salary is determined by
the consultant to be 2.24% to .1% under maximum market value will be given a raise in a percentage
that w ill br ing that employee e qual to  ma ximum ma rket va lue bu t no t ov er.  I f a ny of  the se
designated funds remain a fter raises are given, such re mainder shall be placed in re serves and
utilized to implement an employee investment plan in the FY2015 budget.”  Ms. Broyles moved to
amend by striking the previously approved amendment (as read by the City Clerk), seconded by Mr.
Brown.  Discussion fol lowed on acknowledging receipt of the letter f rom The Me rcer Group,
whether the preliminary recommended pay plan referenced in the letter might be available to City
Council members, and support for the motion to amend to remove the previous amendment from the
main m otion du e to t he inf ormation t hat h ad b een r eceived f rom th e c onsultant a nd the  City
Attorney.  Pursuant to query  to and comments by  City Council members as to their pr eference
regarding The Mercer Group letter being publicly acknowledged, Mayor Kaysen requested the City
Clerk read the letter into the rec ord.  Ms. I ntlekofer noted the date  of the letter  as June 4, 2013,
addressed to Dear Distinguished Members of Council, and read the content of the letter in its entirety
as follows: “I hope this finds all of you well.  Several members of Council have requested that I
provide data for use in the determination and identification of employees who would be eligible for
a Cost Of Living Adjustment (COLA).  First and foremost, I must tell you that, in my professional
opinion, the City of Cheyenne currently has no official data, information or policy framework upon
which to deny any employee a Cost Of Living Adjustment.  My reasoning follows.  A Cost of Living
Adjustment (COLA) is used in an effort to “keep a dollar a dollar” from one year to the next.  In
instances where a pay plan is in use by an organization, the COLA increases that pay plan by a
specified percentage while also increasing each eligible employee’s pay by that same percentage.
To be eligible for the entire COLA amount an employee must simply be at the maximum of the pay
plan or less.  Employees who are at the maximum will remain at the maximum as the pay plan is
increased by the same percentage as the employees’ salaries are increased.  Employees who are
initially above the maximum of the pay plan, but upon the adjustment of the plan by the COLA
percentage would be lowe r than the  new maximum, would be ra ised to the new ma ximum but
receive less than the full COLA percentage.  Employees whose pay exceeds the current maximum
of their range by more than the  COLA percentage would not receive an adjustment in pay.  The
above scenario is for organizations that have and use a pay plan.  In my opinion, this is not the case
with the City; Cheyenne’s current pay plan is more than seventeen years old and has little, if any,
reflection of the functional hierarchy of classified positions or the parameters of the labor market in
which Cheyenne must complete for employees.  As such, the City has no regulatory or procedural
basis upon which to deny any employee a Cost Of Living Adjustment based on their relative position
within the pay plan.  In the Compensation and Classification Study that I have been working on I
have collected and analyzed data and information pertaining to appropriate pay ranges, pay grades,
and position classifications for the City’s employees.  I have developed a preliminary recommended
pay plan.  None of this data has been reviewed, discussed, or approved by Council.  As such, it
currently has no standing in the decision regard COLA awards or other salary increases.  Further, the
current discu ssion seems to relate to identify ing e mployees w ithin 2.25% of the pre liminary
recommended minimums and maximums of their preliminary recommended pay grade in an effort
to identify those who would and would not receive a COLA.  In so doing, by identifying employees
through the use of unofficial data who would receive a pay increase, you are no longer discussing
a COLA.  Such an award of salary increases in this manner becomes a free-standing policy driven
salary increase for a subset of employees based on preliminary, unofficial data.  This decision is
much more open to interpretation at numerous regulatory levels and, in my opinion, exposes the City
to far reaching liability based upon the appearance of possible discriminatory practices.  As an added
consideration, were you to use this unofficial data in the award of salary increases to a subset of your
employees this same data would not be the data brought forth in the litigation or regulatory appeal
of your decision; your “current” pay plan would be viewed as the only official pay plan in use for
the employees of Cheyenne and the presumptive document that informed and drove your decisions.
One further consideration: using unofficial data while having been apprised beforehand in writing
regarding the possible discriminatory appearance and ramifications in u sing that unofficial data
would further weaken the City’s case.  It continues to be a pleasure working with the City.  Best
regards, Phillip G. Robertson, Sr. Vice President, The Mercer Group, Inc.”  Comments followed in
support of the amendment removing the previous amendment to the main motion.  Mayor Kaysen
advised he will make a request to Mr. Robertson with regard to the inquiry concerning whether the
preliminary recommended pay plan could be pr ovided, noting that Mr. Robertson anticipates the
final recommended pay plan to be submitted later this month.  Motion t o amend carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes”
-- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” --
Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Mayor Kaysen advised a special meeting of City Council’s
Committee of the Whole would be held on June 6, 2013 at 5:30 p.m. to review the budget ordinance
on 3  reading; that the budget public hearing would be held at 6:00 p.m. during the regular June 10rd th
City Council meeting, and that the budget ordinance would be addressed on 3  and final reading atrd
the June 10  meeting, noting all meetings are open to the public.th
There being no further business previously noted for the special meeting, Mayor Kaysen
adjourned the special meeting at 6:06 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 10, 2013