MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-06-10 | CLIP_ID: 379 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 379

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 June 10, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Allen  moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 28, 2013.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on June 4, 2013.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez  moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advised a voucher payable to AM
Signal Inc. ($7,665.80 for a solar powered school zone flashing beacon) is a cooperative effort and
shared expense with the school district.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to Labor Ready
Center, Inc. ($7,292.13) relative to amounts paid for temporary laborers for the Transfer Station, Jim
Elias, Public W orks Director, provided information on the number  of individuals involved in the
billing; hours worked; tasks assigned, and reasons for and benefits of utili zing temporary laborers
through the ag ency.  Upon f urther inquiry, Mr. Elias stated the individuals ar e not per manent or
seasonal City employees and receive no benefits.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council C hambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. B rown
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Anong Larsen and Brett Larsen d/b/a Anong’s
Thai Cuisine, 620 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk,
confirmed the application is for a new restaurant liquor license at the site.  There being no further
comments and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and  referred
the application to Finance Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input regarding the intent of
the City of Cheyenne to submit an application to the Wyoming Business Council’s Business Ready
Community, Downtown Development Grant Program,  for funding for the Capital Basin Flood Control
Project (Trunkline Interceptor).  Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager, advised the grant is to help with
funding to divert flood waters away from the downtown and west edge areas and will set the stage for
further economic development.  She stated the total amount of the project is $4,200,000.00 and a grant
application for mineral royalty funds has also been submitted, noting that grant, if approved, as well
as 6  Penny funds earmarked for the project can go toward the City’s match and other grants may alsoth
be available.  There being no further comments and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor
Kaysen closed the hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for comments and input on the proposed budgets for
the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2014.  There being no comments
and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE - Approving and establishing revised water and sewer rates, tap and system
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties and septic and commercial waste
dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr.
Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”. (#3975)
 
ORDINANCE - Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation Fee Schedule. Maurine Bader,
Wyoming Liberty Group, spoke in opposition to the  proposed fee increases, commenting on
accountability to taxpayers, costs to citizens and the need to research operational efficiencies.  Bill
Henderson suggested designating a fund to rese rve revenues for future alloca tion due to unknown
factors th at c ould a ffect t he b udget, s uch a s f irefighter a rbitration a nd r esults o f th e E mployee
Investment Study (EIS), and requested consideration of keeping the current landfill dumping quantity
of up to 2,000 lbs. that Cit y residents can  submit in the fe e schedule.  Victor Cicc one expressed
concerns with increasing rates and the effect on those with fixed incomes, and questioned the need for
installing GPS (global positioning system) in sanitation trucks.  Jim Elias, Director of Public Works,
explained components of the new waste management software, which includes use of the GPS, and
advised the system will provide for pick-up route efficiencies and that research reflects users of these
types of systems have experienced cost savings.  In response to comments, Mayor Kaysen clarified that
use of sanitation revenues to cover other City operations has been a practice for decades.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Ms. Broyles raised a point of
clarification questioning if members did not wa nt to support any increases but did want to support
other portions of the schedule, could the question be divided.  Mayor Kaysen reviewed the procedure
to amend the ordinance.  Broyles moved to amend by striking any sanitation fee increase but keeping
the seven paragraphs noted at the end of the or dinance in place, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Mr. Elias
clarified the seven paragraphs were contained in a staf f cover memorandum and not as part of the
ordinance, which includes the attached fee schedule, and encouraged consideration of keeping the 12
notes outlined in the fee schedule.  Ms. Broyles revised her motion to change the reference to the seven
paragraphs to  ins tead in clude No tes 1  thr ough12 a s c ontained in  the  pr oposed s chedule, w ith
concurrence by Mr. Allen as second to the motion.  Mr. Hende rson commented on GPS costs over
time, referencing the general finance Rule of 72, and suggested review of full life cycle costs.  Point
of clarification was raised by Mr. Shanor pertaining to wording of the motion to amend and, upon
inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, stated her interpretation of the revised motion on the floor was
to strike any fee increases but keep Notes 1 through 12.  Discussion included the following topics:
Notes contained at the end of the proposed fee schedule, specifically Note 3.; continuing to allow City
residents to dump up to 2,000 lbs. at the landfill without a fee; customer service concerns; sanitation
pickup routes and procedures; verification that an a mendment to the ordinance, pursuant to action
taken at the May 28, 2013 Council meeting to include a $12.00 per hour minimum wage for certain
full-time City  employ ees, w as still part of the pend ing ordinance, and c onfirmation that if the
amendment on t he floor w as approved it would in essence  remove the intent of Section 1. of the
ordinance.  U pon inquiry during discussion, Vicki Nemecek, Assistant Director of Public Works,
explained the paragraphs outlined in the staff memo for areas proposed to be included in the notes
section of the fee schedule, and reviewed proposed new areas contained in the fee schedule and notes.
Mr. Elias provided information on Note 3.; sanitation routes; customer services that are provided and
costs/personnel time involved in certain services, and, upon inquiry, noted benefits of implementing
the new G PS in vehicles.  During  comments on the GPS, Dr. Rinne raise d a point of orde r that
discussion was not germane to the motion on the floor as f unding for the GPS is included with the
budget ordinance, not the sanitation fee ordinance.  Following verification of the motion on the floor,
motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor.  Voting “no” -- Mr.
Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Ms. Broyles
moved to amend by striking Section 3. of the ordinance, which was intended, by  previous amendment
made at the May  28, 2013 Counci l meeting, to br ing certain employees up to a  minimum salary
amount of $12.00/hour, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Comment followed that it may be proposed that the
topic might be a ddressed differently than including it in the pending or dinance.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook voting
“no”.  Discussion followed on the Landfill Dumping Fees portion of the fee schedule relative to the
per ton fee with Mr. Elias providing information on the types of waste being submitted and fees based
on weight.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by striking the proposed increase to the cost per ton from the
Landfill Dumping Fee section, which would keep the  current provision in place, se conded by Mr.
Shanor.  Dr. Rinne revised (clarified) his motion to amend to reflect, in the fee schedule, that City
residents can dump up to 2,000 lbs. per four month period for free.  Mr. Shanor, as second to the initial
motion, concurred with the revision.  Mr. Ciccone requested clarification of the proposed amendment
with regard to the procedure utilized to ascertain the 2,000 lb. limit and questioned how much money
the compost fac ility raises r evenue-wise for the City .  Mr. Elias advised loa ds are weighed at the
landfill and records are kept and when the same customer comes back with another load, the weights
are added to previous weight amounts to track the 2,000 lb. limit, and that compost facility revenue
is approximately $115,000 per year.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body.  Upon inquiry involving roll-off containers (pursuant to Note 9.) and various bin fees,
Mr. Elias reviewed current fees; explained problems involving overweight roll-off containers and the
reasons for assessing charges for overweight containers; confirmed that private haulers are allowed
to place their containers in the City pursuant to a past change in city code, and provided information
on curbside bins.  Mr. Br own raised a point of order  pertaining to wha t the question on the floor
involved with Mayor Kaysen clarifying the main motion on the floor is to approve the ordinance as
amended.  Discussion followed on use of sanitation revenue to off-set other City services; other City
services that don’t involve reve nue generation; diversifying the City’s funding stream to help f und
operations; transparency involving operational costs; limited revenue sources available to the City and
effect on the general fund, including staffing and current level of services, if sanitation fees are not
used to cover costs for other operations and services.  Main motion as twice amended failed.  Voting
“yes” -- Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne, M r. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Vo ting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms.
Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.
ORDINANCE - Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the r evenue required to meet the said appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 2013, and ending  June 30, 2014.  B ill Henderson spoke in support of the budg et
process, noting it can be amended later if needed, and commented that there were potential areas where
rates could be incr eased.  Reporting  for Committee of the Whole, Dr. R inne stated there was no
recommendation from t he C ommittee.  Dr . R inne m oved t o ap prove o n t hird an d fi nal reading,
seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr . Shanor moved to amend the budget by directing that $615,000 in
recurring expenditures be cut from the FY2014 proposed budget under the following conditions: 1.
That $615,000 currently proposed in appropriated money for a 2.25% raise to City employees remain
intact in its entirety and no other cuts will be made to any part of currently proposed City employee
compensation and benefit packages; 2. That the currently proposed recurring revenue estimates and
recurring expenditure estimates remain as is and not be altered to accommodate this $615,000 cut; 3.
That nonrecurring funds, specifically the $1,890,785 million in state special distribution funds and the
roughly $1,748,220 in impact assistance capital investment funds, will not be used to cover this cut
in recurring expenditures; and 4. As part of this amendment the Council grants the administration the
authority to determine how this $615,000 cut will be made subject to these conditions.  Mr. Henderson
spoke in support of the amendment and to keep the amount in reserves.  Upon inquiry, Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, confirmed the City’s portion of the increase to employee retirement pension cost is included
in the $615,000.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend the amendment by striking “and recurring expenditure
estimates” contained in Condition No. 2., seconded by  Mr. Allen.  During comment on addressing
salary adjustments for employees, Mr. Brown raised a point of order that comments should pertain to
the pending motion to amend the amendment.  Motion to amend the amendment carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body.  Discussion followed on proposed employee salary increases;
revenue constraints, and conc ern w ith Condi tion No. 4. relative to a dministrative vs. Council’s
responsibility in determining where reductions will be made to meet the $615,000 cut and effect on
staffing levels and reduction of services.  Upon inquiry regarding potential legal concerns involving
Condition No. 4., Dan White, City Attorney, expressed his belief tha t the authority granted to the
administration in this condition could represent an unconstitutional or unlawful delegation of power
by City Council and could be inc onsistent with state statutes.  Mr. Shanor  moved to amend the
amendment, seconded by Mr. Allen, as follows: In lieu of paragraph (i.e. condition) 4. of the pending
amendment, which is in relation to the administration’s discretion to administer the $615,000 cut as
it deems appropriate, the following will be inserted: To effectuate this $615,000 cut, the City budget
will be cut by 1.125% across the board by each department’s individual budget being decreased by
1.125% in the numbers below: City Council, $272,592; Mayor, $2,133,960; City Clerk, $2,771,029;
Public Works, $11,087,848; Police, $11,730,919; Fire, $9,092,141; Parks and Recreation, $5,630,325;
Treasurer, $5 94,426; E ngineering, $ 878,179; P lanning Se rvices, $1 ,867,005; G eneral A ccounts,
$6,385,404, and Support Servic es $1,602,551, for a  total amended budg et of $54,046,383.  Mr.
Henderson commented on use of City reserves as an option and proposed salary increases vs. a COLA
(Cost of Living Adjustment).  Nick Winslow questioned how much money the City will receive due
to the increase in state fuel tax effective July 1, 2013 with Ms. Huff advising the projected revenue has
been calculated and is included in the proposed budget, noting the revenue will be used for roads and
street construction.  Discussion followed on concern with legal issues, unknown fire union arbitration
results and use of recurring revenue for proposed salary increases.  Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City
Clerk, advised the  amendment c annot be f urther amended at this time as there  were already two
pending motions to amend on the floor.  Motion to amend the amendment failed.  Voting “no” -- all
members of the governing body.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend the amendment, seconded by Mr. Luna,
as follows: I n lieu of par agraph 4 . of the pending amendment whic h is in relation to the
administration’s discretion to administer the $615,000 cut as it deems appropriate, the following will
be inserted: To effectuate this $615,000 cut, the City budget will be cut by 1.125% across the board
by each department’s individual budget being decreased by 1.125% as reflected in the numbers below
(re: same listing with dollar amounts as included in the previous motion to amend the amendment)
except under Fire strike the amount of $9,092,141, and insert the Fire Department budget will be cut
by 1.125% o r only to the extent we don’t violate the collective bargaining agreement, for a total
amended budget of $54,046,383, minus the Fire Department amount.  Pursuant to inquiry regarding
wording of the motion, Mr. Shanor revised his motion to add at the end of the wording “... for a total
amended budget of $54,046,383, minus the fire department amount and in addition to whatever the
Fire Department budget ends up being under these conditions.  Mr. Luna, as second to the motion to
amend the a mendment, concurred with the revised w ording of the motion.  Ms. Huff que stioned
verification of the dollar amount that would be listed in the total amount of the budget ordinance if the
amendment we re a pproved ( i.e. orig inal budget amount of $9,195,592 or a  revised a mount of
$9,092,141 reflecting a 1.125% cut, which represents $103,451).  Mr. Shanor stated preferably the
amount of $9,195,592 would be cut by 1.125% but that may not be achievable if it violates the fire
collective bargaining agreement, and commented on either budgeting for that amount and having the
provision subject to an analysis of the collective bargaining agreement or leaving it open ended that
the Fire Department budget will be cut by  1.125% or to the e xtent that the collec tive bargaining
agreement will allow.  Ms. Huff expressed he r belief that she nee ded to inclu de a definite dollar
number for the total budget and couldn’t do a narrative budget.  Upon inquiry, Mr. White advised of
his concerns with the proposed amendment stating the Fire Department currently includes 3 firefighters
employed pursuant to federal grant funds under the SAFER program and that, before approving the
amendment, it would be helpful to analyze grant requirements to ensure the amendment would not
affect the City’s obligations under the grant agreement.  He further stated that the topic of who decides
whether we a re in violation of the c ollective labor agreement is a conc ern as the fire  union may
disagree with a decision and may file a request for arbitration, which would then involve an arbitrator
possibly making a budget decision, which could be an unconstitutional delegation of authority.  Upon
inquiry to Mr. White regarding whether potential liability could exist if one budget is not cut but cuts
to other budgets are effected, Mr. White stated the basic idea being presented for an across the board
cuts to all depar tments by 1.125% would proba bly be leg al but there  is a conc ern when the Fire
Department is included as it raises other issues that have to be carefully analyzed.  Mr. Shanor moved
the previous question.  Joe Dougherty, Transit Director, stated that from his experience with the City’s
budgetary process, the budget has to have a fixed number.  Mr. Allen seconded the motion to move
the previous question (call for the question to l imit debate).  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.  Pursuant to a point of order  raised by Dr. Rinne, Mayor Kaysen
clarified the motion just approved was to close debate on the motion to amend the amendment and,
for informational purposes, inquired of Ms. Huff whether a COPS federal grant involving funding for
the Police Department officers might also affect the proposed cuts.  Ms. Huff advised the COPS grant
has expired but the City is required to retain 3 police officers funded through the grant through Dec.
31, 2013 and that amount needs to remain in the budget and if the 1.125% cut involving the motion
to amend the amendment is approved, the Police Department can not cut funding for those positions.
Motion to amend the amendme nt failed.  Voting  “no” -- all members of the governing body.  Mr.
Shanor moved to amend the amendment as follows: In lieu of paragraph 4. of the pending amendment
which is in relation to the administration’s discretion to administer the $615,000 cut as it  deems
appropriate, the following will be inserted: To effectuate this $615,000 cut, the City budget will be cut
by 1.125% ac ross the boar d by each department’s individual budge t being decreased by 1.125%,
excluding the Fire Department, as reflected in the numbers below (re: same listing with dollar amounts
as included in the previous motion to amend the amendment with the subtraction of the  amount listed
for Fire) for a total amended budget amount.  Pursuant to a request for clarification by Ms. Huff, Mr.
Shanor clarified his motion is to leave the Fire Department’s initial budget amount of $9,195,592 as
listed in the ordinance and that the total amended budget amount, if the motion is approved, would be
$54,149,835.  Mr. Luna seconded the motion to amend the amendment.  Comment followed that by
amending the budget amount, the effect is that the “numbers” are no longer reconciled.  Following a
10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:34 p.m.  Verification was made of the
wording of the motion on the floor and comment was offered that support for the amendment not be
provided to allow for reconciliation of the amended budget total.  Motion to amend the amendment
failed.  V oting “ no” --  all members of the governing body .  Mr. Shanor moved to a mend the
amendment as follows:  In lieu of paragraph 4. of the pending amendment which is in relation to the
administration’s discretion to administer the $511,549 cut as it deems appropriate, the following will
be inserted: To effectuate this $511,549 cut, the City budget will be cut by 1.125% across the board
by each department’s individual budget being decreased by 1.125%, excluding the Fire Department,
as reflected in the numbers below (re: same listing with dollar amounts as included in the pre vious
motion to  amend the amendment with the amount now listed for  Fire as $9,195,592) f or a total
amended budget amount of $54,149,835.  Mr. Allen seconded the motion.  Sara Vasquez, president,
Cheyenne Public Employees Association, expressed concerns that the proposed 1.125% budget cuts
could result in staff reductions in force (RIF) measures as well as reduced services.  Claus Johnson,
City employee, reiterated similar concerns expressed by Ms. Vasquez and further commented on past
budget constraints resulting in RIFs and early retirement offerings and effect on remaining employees
to “do more with less”.  He stated his opinion that COLAs (Cost of Living Adjustments) and raises
are  differ ent issues and c ommented further that the employ ee-driven EIS (Employee Investment
Study) wa s to assist with hi ring and kee ping qua lified, trained sta ff to provide service s.  Mr.
Henderson aske d whether  exis ting c ontract service s offe red any  opportunity  for a mounts to be
amended, and if that might be a funding source for the proposed 2.25% COLA increase for employees,
and posed possible contractual areas that may be increased or decreased to cover the COLA cost.
Mayor Kaysen provided information on the different types of contracts the City has, noting that some
may have provisions to renegotiate terms while others do not; advised some contracts involve sales
tax funds and grants, and provided information on employee health coverage.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Huff
advised health care costs to the City is approximately $6 million a year.  During comments offered by
James Perrot Howard McNeil Pershing regarding Swan Ranch developers, Mr. Brown raised a point
of order that comments were not germane to the motion on the floor with Mayor Kaysen concurring.
Ms. Huff commented on discussions she was involved in with department/division heads during the
budget preparation process and complimented them on efficiently managing their budgets, and effect
of additional budget reductions.  She advised the $615,000 (for employee increases) is already included
in the budget, and commented generally on estimated revenue projections contained in the budget,
impact assistance funds and dollar amount involved in the previous agenda item that failed relative to
sanitation fee increases.  Rich Wiederspahn, Human Resources Director, referenced the difficulties
employees experienced during and after the 2010 RIFs; requested Council not lose sight of the human
side of the issue and look at alternatives, and do whatever can be done to keep employees.  Discussion
included the f ollowing topics: Proposed motion to amend the a mendment; unknown eff ect of fire
arbitration; proposed budget revenue and expenditure estimates; fiscal responsibility; 1% Sales Tax
expenditures, and request t o receive information from department heads advising of the effect a
1.125% cut would ha ve on their b udgets.  During  comments on 1% Sales Ta x expenditures, Mr.
Brown raised a point of order  that comments wer e not g ermane to the motion on the floor as 1%
monies aren’t in the general fund involving the motion.  Mayor Kaysen requested comments on 1%
Sales Tax expenditures and grants be held for discussion after the amendments had been dealt with.
Pursuant to the request made during discussion, the following Department/Division heads provided
information on the effect of a 1.125% cut to their respective budgets: Mr. Dougherty, Transit Director;
Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department; Chief Jim Martin, Fire and Rescue Department; Rick Parish,
Director of Parks and Recreation; Matt Ashby, Director of Planning Services; Jim Elias, Director of
Public Works; Rob Geringer, City Engineer; Ms. Intlekofer, City Clerk; Ms.Huff, City Treasurer; Mr.
Wiederspahn, Director of Human Resources, and Mr. White, City Attorney.  Also offering comments
was Gus L opez, Director, City -County Hea lth Depar tment.  Area s noted that could be a ffected
included: Employee staffing levels, equipment and supplies, reduced services; training; meeting the
public’s expectations for services, maintenance of grounds, facilities, computer hardware and software,
and meeting certain legal requirements.  Discussion and comments continued on statutory time frame
requirement in which to approve the budget; effect of a 1.125% cut to department budgets; Council’s
budgetary responsibility; whether the budget was “padded”; staff positions in some departments;
proposed income for the Ice and Events Center; concern with ongoing recurring expenses; effect of
affordable health ca re a ct a nd fede ral seque stration; budge t re-a ppropriation ava ilability; fire
arbitration, and looking  at the big  financial picture, long term, fr om a policy perspective.  Dur ing
discussion, va rious b udget in formation w as p rovided b y Ms.  Hu ff, a nd Mr . Pa rish responded to
inquiries conce rning depar tment part-time staff ing le vels, reve nue g enerated by  the g ymnastics
program, and Ice and Events Center revenue due to the recent loss of the Cheyenne Warriors contract.
Mayor Kaysen advised the budget that was presented is a conservative, lean budget.  Motion to amend
the amendment failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Voting
“no” -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Upon request,
Ms. Intlekofer read the pending motion to amend, as amended (i.e. Condition 2.), involving the cutting
of $615,000 in recurring expenditures and the four conditions contained in the motion.  Discussion
included the numerous amendments presented during the meeting; Council’s involvement in providing
viable solutions regarding areas to cut, and authority provided in Condition 4. which the City Attorney
previously stated could be unconstitutional.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of
the governing body.  Ms. Broyles moved to amend by raising every full-time employees salary working
for the taxpayers in the City of Cheyenne to a minimum salary of at least $11.53 per hour for FY2014;
this raise would bring  36 individuals to a basic minimum for a total compensation of $56,119.63,
which includes workers compensation, social security and retirement; funding for this amendment will
be supported from recurring revenues, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Upon inquiry by Mr. Dougherty on
whether the amendme nt would apply to permane nt part-time employees, Ms. B royles verified her
motion does not include permane nt part-time employees but that would be looked at in the future.
Discussion followed on the per hour amount proposed in the amendment relative to a 2.25% COLA;
bringing employees up to market value; funding source to pay for costs involved with the amendment;
waiting for EIS results that may affect salary levels, and written attorney-client advice previously
received by Council m embers from the City  Attorney.  On beha lf of the Council as a n entity, Mr.
White expressed his concern to the Council wit h regard to discussion involving his attorney -client
privileged communication, stating no individual member of Council has the right to waive the
privilege, and requested that any further discussion on this, or any attorney-client advice he provides,
cease immediately.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Huff confirmed that with a 2.25% COLA the $11.53/hour rate
would result in $11.79/hour an d provided information regarding some positions i nvolved in the
proposed amendment that involve grant funding.  She stated that the actual effect of the amendment
on the general fund would be about $48,000.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Broyles
and Mr. Luna.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez,
Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Following comments, main motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr.
Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen,
Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams. (#3976)
Following a brief recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 10:53 p.m.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classific ation from MR-2 Medium Density  Residential - De veloping
District to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential - High Density District for Lot 14, Block 1, Saddle Ridge,
Fifth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Countryside
Avenue and Medicine Man Trail).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#3977) 
 
ORDINANCE  - Amending various Sections of Title 8, Health and Safety, Chapter 8.08, Alarm
Systems, of the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to Alarm Devices and Systems, and False Alarms.
Charlie Giroux stated his concerns that there was no separation difference between a residential alarm
and a business/commercial alarm, and the fee rate associated with a change in alarm systems.  Upon
inquiry, Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, advised the ordinance will not go into effect until
September 1, 2013 and reviewed plans to educate the community and businesses through distribution
of information prior to that time.  He stated that officer response to false alarms is the greatest concern
which the ordinance will help address, noting that the same resources are expended whether response
is to a residence or business.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by
Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend Section 8.08.020 A. by reducing the permit amount from
$200.00 to $100.00, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  It was clarified this would be a one time permit fee for
new permittees, not an annual fee as is currently place, as long as the system is the same, and that
current permittees will pay $25.00 to effect the change.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Mr. Shanor moved to
amend Section 8.08.055 B. by inserting the language “and permit fee amount” between the words
“City” and “prior” so the section would read “ ... Each alarm monitoring company and installer shall
notify its customers of the requirement to obtain an alarm permit from the City and permit fee amount
prior to finalizing any sales or service agreement for an alarm system”.  Ms. Broyles seconded the
motion.  Chief Kozak expressed support for the amendment.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes”
– all members of the governing body.  Upon inquiry concerning Section 8.08.030 C. and Council
members’ involvement in comprising the 3 member  panel relative to the a ppeal process involving
possible revocation or denial of a permit, Dan White, City Attorney, explained that when drafting the
ordinance he reviewed Chapter 5.04 of City Code which relates to the revocation of business licenses
and involves a contested case hearing before the full Council.  He stated he felt alarm permits do not
implicate constitutional gua rantees, such a s a business license doe s, and consider ing a  hear ing
procedure for citizens would be helpful, he determined a “sub-set” of Council members to serve on
the panel would be ade quate in lieu of the  entire governing body.   Dr. Rinne moved to amen d by
striking the second sentence in its entirety in Section 8.08.020 C. 1. b. which reads as follows: “ ... A
permittee may be subject to a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) if any responding police officer is
unable to establish contact with the permittee or with emergency contacts listed in the application for
the purpose of granting access to the alarm system location or deactivating the alarm.”  Motion was
seconded by Mr. Allen.  Mr. Giroux spoke in fa vor of the a mendment.  Chief Kozak advise d the
purpose of the section is due to the scenario of officers being on the scene, sometimes for hours, trying
to contact the responsible person and this is to encourage the permit holder to update their information.
 He noted that assessment of the fee is at the discretion of the police chief.  Comments followed on
communication unavailability at times, particularly involving cellphone contact attempts where lack
of cell coverage areas may exist; current wording of the sentence relative to “may be subject to a fee”
vs. lack of the  word “ shall”; responsibility of perm ittees to provide  current contact information;
suggestion that a reduced fee of $50.00 be considered, and effect of remaining wording in the section
if the amendment was approved.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Cook, Mr.
Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles
and Mayor Kaysen.  Main motion as amended three times carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. (#3978)
ORDINANCE - Granting a Franchise by the City of Cheyenne to Cheyenne Light, Fuel and
Power Company, its successors and assigns, the right to furnish, sell and distribute natural gas to the
City and to all persons, businesses, and industry within a portion of the City in Cheyenne Light, Fuel
and Power  Company ’s Certifica ted Ter ritory and the r ight to ac quire, c onstruct, install, locate,
maintain, operate and extend into, within and through said City all facilities reasonably necessary to
furnish, sell and distribute natural gas within the City and the right to make reasonable use of all streets
and other public places and public easements as herein defined as may be necessary; and fixing the
terms and conditions thereof.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by
Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#3979)
ORDINANCE - A mending Chapter 5.12,  Alcoholic B everages, Section 5.12.030(A) ,
Application–Fees–Procedures, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City
Code to authorize one (1) additional dispensing room for restaurant liquor licensees upon application
to and appr oval by  the Governing B ody of the City  of Chey enne pur suant to the provisions of
Wyoming Statute §12-4-410(b), as amended, effective July 1, 2013.  Mr. Brown reported there was
no recommendation from Finance Committee on the item.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, provided information
on the purpose of  the ordinanc e, which is to ame nd City C ode to “mirror ” state statute c hanges
approved by the state legislative body at its most recent session, and explained the statutory change
provides the opportunity for current restaurant liquor licensees to request one additional dispensing
room in the same buildi ng and under  the same r equirements and re strictions as the initial liquor
license.  She noted a 2/3rds fee of the initial license is required and, upon further inquiry, stated to date
she had not received any inquiries or requests pursuant to the statute change.  Comments followed on
municipalities’ ability to be more restrictive than state statutes, and concern with employees ages 18
to 21 serving alcoholic beverages.  Motion failed (due to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr.
Luna, Mr. Shanor, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. B royles, Mr.
Cook, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Valdez. 
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinance No. 3951 def ining the te rms and conditions of
employment for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne.  Mr. Brown moved to approve
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone for two weeks (to June
24, 2013), sec onded by  Ms. Broy les.  I t was noted the r eason f or the F inance Commi ttee’s
recommendation to postpone was due to correlation of the proposed ordinance with the budget and
since the budget ordinance passed earlier in the mee ting, the pur pose for postponement no long er
existed.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Luna.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown,
Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Main
motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 3952 de fining the terms and c onditions of
employment for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone for two weeks
(to June 24, 2013), seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Similar to the previous agenda item, it was noted that
the purpose for postponement no longer existed due to passage of the budget ordinance.  Motion to
postpone failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections within Chapter 5.68, Body Art Establishments and
Operations, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City Code to provide for
a Body Art Special Event Business License and requirements for participating body artists and guest
body artists -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Valdez).
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 5.08, Business License Fees, Section 5.08.250, Body Art
Establishments and Operations -- Body Artists, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the
Cheyenne City Code to implement a license f ee for Body Art Special Events -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Valdez).      
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from LR-1 Low-Density Residential-Established to MUR
Mixed-Use Residential Emphasis for the south ½ of Lots 8 and 9, Block 3, Yellowstone Addition,
Cheyenne, W yoming (l ocated ea st o f a nd ad jacent t o Ye llowstone R oad, b etween De ll R ange
Boulevard and Carroll Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen). 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to HI Heavy Industrial for Lot
3, Block 2, Campstool Addition, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent
to Hutchins Drive, west of Campstool Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Allen).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2 Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MUB Mixed Use Business
Emphasis for Lots 1 through 4, Block 1, Cooley Subdivision, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Bluegrass Circle and Edgewater Avenue) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services by User’s Agreement with
Cronimet Holdings, Inc., Lot 2, Block 1, Swan Ranch Rail Park, Second Filing, Laramie County,
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5496)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle
Ridge, Fifth Filing, a replat of all of Block 7, and a portion of Countryside Avenue, Saddle Ridge,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Wilderness and Medicine
Man Trails).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5497)
RESOLUTION - Adopting the 8  Avenue Corridor Plan.  J ames Perrot Windsor Howardth
McNeil Pershing commented in reference to ownership and the Swan Ranch and his opposition to the
resolution with Mayor Kaysen advising ownership/Swan Ranch comments had no be aring on the
agenda item.  Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Following brief comments, motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Shanor voting
“no”. (#5498)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submission of a Business Ready Community, Downtown
Development Grant Application to the Wyoming Business Council on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for the Downtown Flood Control Project; Trunkline Interceptor -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,  and
Laramie County School District No. 1 for the construction of storm sewer improvements on East
Pershing Boulevard (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $130,000.00). (#6012)  
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and RubinBrown LLP, Denver,
Colorado, to Audit the Financial Statements of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $171,000.00 / 3 year agreement). (6013)
[CA] Software Subscription  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Special Projects/Parking
Division, and T-2 Systems, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana, for a parking enforcement software system with
support maintenance -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Contract between the Wyoming Department of Family Services and the City of Cheyenne,
Office of Y outh Alternatives regarding the provision of Diver sion Services --  referred to Fina nce
Committee.
  
[CA] Amendment Number One Contract No. 5867 between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth
Alternatives, and  Wyoming Department of Family Services regarding the provision of Prevention
Services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-13-13 for a contract for the Fiscal Year 2013 City Overlay Project
between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction Division, and Simon Contractors, Inc., Cheyenne,
Wyoming (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed
$2,443,546.35). (#6014)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-14-13 for a contract for the Fiscal Year 2013 concrete for Street &
Alley Overlay Part “A” Project between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction Division, and Simon
Contractors, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $697,744.50). (#6015)
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-28-13 f or fu rnishing four ne w 2 013 v ehicles f or the  Pa rks &
Recreation Department (2 for Parks Division, and 2 for Recreation Division) (2011- 2014 1% Sales
Tax).  Mr. Brown moved to accept the bid from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, in an amount not
to exceed $108,587.00, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mr. Luna and Ms. Williams voting “no”.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-26-13 for f urnishing one new 2013 r egenerative air sweeper and
chassis for the City ’s Street & Alley Division (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (accept bid from Floyd’s Truck Center, Cheyenne; amount not to exceed $222,885.00)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-27-13 for furnishing one new dual solid drum articulating vibratory
roller for the City’s Street & Alley Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (accept bid from Wyoming Equipment of Cheyenne; amount not to exceed $103,867.00).
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Danny Glick, Jeff Lamm, Rick Robinson
and Gay VanHorn to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board; Dick
O’Gara and John Sundahl to the Downtown Development Authority Board, and Mary Bienz, Dean
Meyer, Scott Thomas and Robin Zimer to the Public Transit Advisory Board, to be confirmed June
24, 2013.
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Christopher Hu mphrey to t he Laramie
County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board, and Pat McGe e and H anz Seitz to the
Downtown Development Authority Board, to be confirmed June 24, 2013.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 24, 2013, at 6:00 p.m., in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public comment, pursuant
to W.S. § 15-1-112(b), regarding a proposed trade of certain City-owned land generally described as
Lots 30 and 31, Block 1, Eastridge Addition, to 19  & Converse, LLC, a Colorado limited liabilityth
company, in exchange for 9,504 square feet of land, being a portion of Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Ruth
Addition, to be acquired by the City for right-of-way purposes in connection with the reconstruction
of the Pershing Boulevard/Converse Avenue/19  Street intersections. th
Announcement was made that two Calcuttas, benefitting Cheyenne area charities, will be held
as follows: Saturday, July 27, 2013 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in the Calcutta tent located in front of the
Old West Museum, 4601 North Carey Avenue, Frontier Park, in conjunction with the Championship
Bull Riding event, and Sunday, July 21, 2013 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in the Calcutta tent located in
front of the Old West Museum, 4601 North Carey Avenue, Frontier Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in
conjunction with the 2013 Chey enne F rontier Da ys cele bration (10%  of proc eeds to bona  fide
charities).
Under other business, County Commissioner Buck Holmes was recognized as being present
at the mee ting; appr eciation was expressed to City  empl oyees attending the long  meeting , and
comment was made concerning the Brewfest event and Tuesday Farmers Markets relocating their
events from the Depot to other sites.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 11:37 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 25, 2013