MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-06-24 | CLIP_ID: 381 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 381

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 June 24, 2013
The Go verning B ody of the C ity of  Che yenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Pre sent were: MAYOR - Richa rd L. Kaysen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two other membe rs is rec eived.  Any  item removed f rom the Consent Ag enda w ill be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Ms. Williams, and pursuant
to support received by Ms. Broyles and Mr. Allen, agenda item #22(a) was removed from the
Consent Agenda.  Mr. Allen moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on J une 10 , 2013.   Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Upon inquiry, various City department heads provided
information for their respective areas involving vouchers payable to the following:  Wyoming State
Bank (a dditional pr incipal pa yment f rom e xcess es crow f unds fo r s anitation le ase/purchase
equipment); Work Area Protections Corp. (traffic cones utilized for various Parks and Recreation
events and road closures); Welding Shop (solid waste dumpster container repairs; stenciling, pickup
and delivery); Waste Management (solid waste disposal fee for use of Ault, CO landfill); North Star
Pharmacy (pharmaceutical drugs for Fire and Rescue Dept. advanced life services); Laramie County
Clerk (re solution fili ng fee ); Color Graphics  (uniforms for  rec reational gir ls softball prog ram
included in registration fee) and AmeriMulch Dispersions LLC (dye to color wood chips (mulch)
sold at Compost  facility).  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present in Council C hambers with the exception of Ms. Wi lliams voti ng “no”.  F ollowing
announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input pursuant to W.S. § 15-
1-112(b), regarding a proposed trade of certain City-owned land generally described as Lots 30 and
31, Block 1, Eastridge Addition, to 19  & Converse, LLC, a Colorado limited liability company, inth
exchange for 9,504 square feet of land, being a portion of Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Ruth Addition, to
be  ac quired by the City  for r ight-of-way purposes in conne ction with the rec onstruction of the
Pershing Boulevard/Converse Avenue/19  St reet intersections.  Dan White, City Attorney, explainedth
the purpose of trading property involves a proposed settlement of the eminent domain case filed by
the City to acquire right-of-way at the former Hollywood Video business site for the round-about at
the intersection.  He provided information on the proposed trade involving lost parking spaces and
assessed valuation of the properties, and stated it was anticipated that the settlement agreement would
be introduced on the July 8  City Council meeting agenda.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advisedth
the  City has traded other properties several times in the past and the process is in compliance with
state statute requirements; noted the trade is just one piece of the proposed settlement agreement and
indicated that, upon approval of the settlement agreement by the parties involved, there would be no
further action required regarding the eminent domain filing.  There being no further comments or
input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 3951 de fining the terms and conditions  of
employment for non- uniformed e mployees of  the City  of Chey enne.  Re porting for F inance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to  approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Motion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all members of the  governing body with the exception of Ms.
Williams voting “no”. (#3980)
ORDINANCE - Amending  Ordinanc e No. 3952 de fining the terms and c onditions of
employment for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advised
police officers have the same option to participate in the City’s wellness program as other employees.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#3981)
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections within Chapter 5.68, Body Art Establishments
and Operations, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City Code to provide
for a Body Art Special Event Business License and requirements for participating body artists and
guest body artists.  Gary  Hickman, Chey enne-Laramie County Health Department, advised the
ordinance was prepared at the request of local body artists who would like the opportunity to hold
special events in the community and to also allow non-local guest body artists to provide body art
services in local shops.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Upon inquiry  reg arding whether  any  ty pe of r equirement for malpr actice insurance  should be
considered relative to temporary body art services and protection to local customers, Mr. Hickman
stated the ordinance does not require that type of coverage and no disc ussions on the topic have
occurred, noting  that ot her licenses, such as tempor ary food stands, do not have  an insuranc e
requirement.  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, clarified the ordinance does provide for the applicant for
the special license to serve as the contact person and they must provide a register, containing daily
customer logs, from each body artist participating in the special event that will be kept on file with
the Health Department for communication or contact purposes.  Upon further inquiry, Dan White,
City Attorney, stated wording in the ordinance requires proof of general liability coverage for any
event held on City-owned property, which protects the interests of the City, and that they could look
into professional malpractice insurance to see if it’s even available and what the potential cost might
be.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr.
Allen and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 5.08, Business License Fees, Section 5.08.250, Body Art
Establishments and Operations -- Body Artists, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the
Cheyenne City Code to implement a license fee for  Body Art Specia l Events.  Gar y Hickman,
Cheyenne-Laramie County Health Department, advised this is a companion ordinance to the previous
one establishing a license fee for special body art events.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Comment followed on the proposed fee amount of $100.00. Ms.
Williams moved to amend the fee amount from $100 to $25.  Motion died due to lack of a second.
Upon inquiry, Mr. Hickman advised the Health Department will have a separate permit fee and Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, explained the City’s fee amount is to cover the cost of processing a business
license application including, for this type of license, on-site inspections.  Upon further inquiry, Ms.
Intlekofer verified the applicant, or promoter, of a special event would have to pay any facility rental
fees customarily assessed if , for e xample, the e vent venue would be held within a City -owned
facility, and woul d need to acquire any other re quired City licenses or  permits.  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Allen and Dr. Rinne
voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from LR-1 Low-Density Residential-Established to MUR
Mixed-Use Residential Emphasis for the south ½ of Lots 8 and 9, Block 3, Yellowstone Addition,
Cheyenne, W yoming (l ocated ea st o f a nd ad jacent t o Ye llowstone R oad, b etween De ll R ange
Boulevard and Carroll Avenue).  Ron Pinther, applicant requesting the zone change, read a Memo
dated June 24, 2013 (on file with City Clerk’s office) addressed to the Mayor and City Council
members indicating neighbors have stated they will support a sign variance permitting a low-profile
ground sign, approximately eight feet high and 22 sq. ft., zero to five feet from the right-of-way and
two window decals 8½ x 5½ inches, and requesting the zone change ordinance be postponed until
a final decision is made by the Board of Adjustment pursuant to his intention to submit a request for
a sign variance by the Board.  He reviewed his understanding of meeting dates pursuant to his request
for postponement, noting the Board may make a final decision on his variance request at its August
15  meeting.  Steve Oxley, stating he will be a resident in the zone change request area in the nearth
future, confirmed he had no objec tion to Mr. Pi nther seeking a sign variance instead of a zone
change.  Upon inquiry to Mr. Oxley and Kim Oxley regarding whether yellow (striped) parking space
lines would be re quired for Mr. Pinther’s prope rty, utilized as a business office, as well as other
businesses in the vicinity  along Yellowstone Road, Mr. a nd Ms. Ox ley responded they  had no
knowledge of requirements regarding striped parking lines.  Mr. Allen raised a point of order stating
he did not think it was proper to call upon members of the audience and cross examine them; that
they should be able to make comments on their own if desired.  Mayor Kaysen stated the form of
questioning was a little off- target and r ecognized Matt Ashby , Planning Ser vices Director, who
provided information on the site plan process, which would include defining the location and number
of parking spaces required for the area if the zone change is granted.  He further explained parking
requirements generally for home based businesses.  Dr. Rinne raised a point of order that discussion
should stay on track for the proposed postponement.  Ma yor Kaysen advised comments should
remain germane to the topic before them.  Rosalind Schliske, resident in the vicinity, commented on
Mr. Pinther’s request for postponement vs. a letter Mr. Pinther had circulated to the neighborhood
indicating he would be withdrawing his request for a zone change.  Mr. Allen raised a point of order
inquiring if there was any motion on the floor with Mayor Kaysen verifying no motion had yet been
made and public discussion on the ordinance was being entertained.  The following individuals spoke
in opposition to the proposed zone change: Ms. Schliske, Cindy Paul, Birgette Paul, Mr. Oxley and
Eugene Kn ipping.  T opics d iscussed inc luded: S pot zon ing re quests fo r b usiness a ctivities in
Yellowstone Addition and past attempts for zone changes by the applicant; retaining the residential
integrity of the neighborhood; traffic volume and parking concerns; active neighborhood support to
keep the current zoning classification; concern with the types of business operations that could be
allowed if the zone change were approved, and opposition to the zone change generally.  Birgette
Paul read a letter from neighborhood residents Brian and Kosha Olsen, who were unable to attend
the meeting, expressing their support in keeping the neighborhood primarily residential in nature.
Mr. Pinther provided a handout (on file with City Clerk’s office) containing vicinity traffic counts
and stated if the zone change were approved and at some point he didn’t continue his business at the
current location, he would request the zone be changed back to an LR-1.  He clarified if his request
for a sign variance is approved by the Board of Adjustment, he will withdraw his request for a zone
change.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen advised there was no recommendation
on the item from the Committee.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Mr. Allen moved to postpone to August 12, 2013, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry
from Ms. Oxley and Cindy Paul, Mayor Kaysen provided general information on City Council
meeting procedures regarding common actions that may involve amendments or postponements on
agenda items, a nd revie wed the a nticipated mee ting sc hedule, if the motion to post pone wa s
approved, relative to w hen the ordinance would be back before the governing body and Public
Services Committee as well as the B oard of Adjustment meeting schedule.  Mr. Ashby provided
information on the public notification process involved for Board of Adjustment meetings, and noted
that within the home occupation standards and regulations essentially the allowance for signage is
limited to one sign not more than three sq. ft. in area per home.  He further advised the Board would
be using  revie w cr iteria to make  their dec ision and evalua te the cir cumstances as well as a ny
neighborhood feedback.  Comments followed regarding past established custom of the governing
body concerning postponements of agenda items beyond the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting vs. wording contained in Robert’s Rules Of Order (RROO) indicating postponement can not
extend past the next regularly scheduled meeting, and taking action on the ordinance at the current
meeting instead of postponing the item.  Mr. Allen raised a point of order questioning whether the
motion to postpone past the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting was in order with Mayor
Kaysen r equesting Dan White, City  Attorney, provide his leg al interpretation of RROO on the
subject.  Mr. White expressed his belief that Mr. Allen’s analysis of RROO was correct and that in
the past City Council has postponed items for longer than the next meeting but RROO is clear that
if a member of the City  Council raises a point of o rder with respect to postponement of an item
beyond the next regularly scheduled meeting then the custom that is currently employed by the City
Council “falls to the ground” and the Council is required to abide by RROO.  Mr. White advised the
chair’s (i.e. mayor’s) role involving this point of order is to decide whether the point is well taken
or not well taken in this particular instance.  He explained if the chair’s conclusion is that the point
is well taken that mea ns the motion to post pone to Aug ust 12   is not in proper orde r andth
theoretically should not be voted on, and if a motion to postpone is to be considered it should only
be for a two week time frame and not to August 12th.  Mayor Kaysen noted the point of order was
well taken and the motion to postpone for more than two weeks was not in order, therefore, there
would be no vote taken on the motion.  Mayor Kaysen announced the main motion to approve on
second reading was now the motion on the floor.  Upon query to Mr. Pinther whether he wished to
request a two week postponement or withdraw his current request for a zone change, Mr. Pinther
advised he would like to withdraw the zone change request and go forward with seeking a s ign
variance.  Mr . Br own ra ised his objection to allowing the re quest for the  zone chang e to be
withdrawn by the applicant at this time and requested a vote on the main motion be taken.  Mayor
Kaysen stated that as an objection had been raised, the main motion was back on the floor.  Upon
inquiry, May or Ka ysen advised tha t WY DOT has maintenance  authority  for this portion of
Yellowstone Road (state highway) and determines any allowable on-street parking.  Main motion to
approve on second reading failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to HI Heavy Industrial for
Lot 3, Block 2, Campstool Addition, Second Filing , Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and
adjacent to Hu tchins Drive, west of Ca mpstool Road).  Mr . Allen moved to appr ove on sec ond
reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Upon inquiry regarding EPA requirements for proposed use as
an impound and truck washing facility, Steve Borin, property owner, clarified any user must comply
with all requirements but advised this may be a moot point as the proposed property user may not
proceed with development plans.  He provided information on potential other uses of the property
and advised he is still seeking the zone change.  Comment followed on potential impact beyond the
property line and fence screening contingent upon the type of property use.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Broyles voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom CB Community B usiness t o M UB Mixe d U se
Business Emphasis for Lots 1 through 4, Block 1, Cooley Subdivision, Cheyenne, Laramie County,
Wyoming (located at the southwest corne r of the inter section of Bluegrass Circle and Edgewater
Avenue).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from HI Heavy Industrial to CB Community Business for
Lot 3, Block 1, Cheyenne Business Parkway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to
Progress Circle, north of Campstool Road -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr.
Allen).
ORDINANCE - Amending the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), as approved
by Ordinance No. 3943 on January 23, 2012, to adopt amendments identified as high priority quick
fixes from the 2013 annual review -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submission of a Business Ready Community, Downtown
Development Grant Application to the Wyoming Business Council on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for the Downtown Flood Control Project; Trunkline Interceptor.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5499)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for Cooley
Subdivision, a replat of Lot 8, Block 8, Meadowbrooke Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
southwest corner of the intersection of Bluegrass Circle and Edgewater Avenue) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Mayor and City  Clerk to enter  into a Memorandum of
Understanding with the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming to submit
a joint application for a grant award under the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant
Program -- referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown advised the item had been discussed under
other items for the agenda at Finance Committee and provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been
met.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department,
advised this was reviewed under other items for the agenda at Finance Committee due to the grant
application deadline of July 9, 2013.  He explained they are requesting $31,260.00 and, if the grant
request is approved, the money would be used to purchase a “use of force” simulator for the City, and
Laramie County would receive $12,721.00 to purchase radios and personally worn cameras.  Buck
Holmes, Laramie County Commissioner, advised the County Commissioners have approved its
portion of the related documents.  Motion carried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body. (Res. #5500/Contract #6021)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting  the City  of Chey enne’s Application for Tr ansportation
Alternatives Pr ogram ( TAP) fu nding fo r i mplementation o f t he Wayfinding Pla n - - referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with
C & S Halvorson, L ot 4, E nergy Park One , Laramie County, Wyoming - - re ferred to F inance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Valdez).
Software Subscription Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Special Projects/Parking
Division, and T-2 Systems, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana, for a parking enforcement software system
with support maintenance.  Bob Bradshaw, Special Projects Director, provided a summary of the
purpose of and need to acquire the software system, stating the current software program is housed
on  the Divi sion of I nformation Technology’s mainframe computer for whic h operating system
support will no longer be provided in September and that the current software (written in-house) is
approximately 25 years old.  He advised the system will also provide for 2 handheld devices with
printer capability to be used by parking enforcement with information from the devices entered into
the computer software program.  Laura Lears, T-2 Systems, advised she was available to answer any
questions regarding the softwar e.  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove in the amount of $58,295.76,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Bradshaw advised the new software program with the
handheld devices will be an obvious improvement over the current obsolete program; explained that
funding for the system, including cost of initial maintenance was approved through a prior budget
re-appropriation; advised of maintenance and program costs anticipated for and budgeted within the
current budget, and reviewed numerous other entities that are utilizing the T-2 software system.  He
noted expenses to implement the system are anticipated to be lower than initially estimated.  Upon
further inquiry, Mr. Bradshaw cited his concern with regard to any delay in implementing the system
by the September date when the maintenance for the mainframe will no longe r be available, and
provided information generally on the handheld devices relative to issuanc e of paper tickets and
downloading of informa tion into t he softwa re pr ogram, noting  the cha nge will not affe ct the
Municipal Court process; lack of on-line payment capability, at least initially, due to security issues;
training, and approved funding for the system.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#6022)
 
[CA] Contract between the Wyoming Department of Family Services and the City of Cheyenne,
Office of Youth Alternatives regarding the provision of Diversion Services.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (revenue to City - $157,800.00). (#6023)
  
[CA] Amendment Number One to Contract No. 5867 between the City of Cheyenne, Office of
Youth Alterna tives, and Wy oming De partment of F amily Service s re garding the provision of
Prevention Services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to City - $178,756.00). (#6024)
[CA] Contract b etween Ci ty o f Ch eyenne, E ngineering D epartment, a nd I MS Infrastructure
Management Services, Tempe, Arizona, for pavement condition survey, assessment and inventory
services (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.   
  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police D epartment, and Laramie County School
District No. 1 for School Resource Officers, for the 2013 - 2014 school year -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
shelter services -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
control services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Bill G. Hibbler for professional legal counsel
assistance -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for
Economic Development (LEADS) for industrial and economic development services -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] User Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Parks and Recr eation Department, and
Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, to host the 2013-2014 season at the City-owned Ice
and Events Center -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-29-13 for furnishing 10 Police vehicles for the City of Cheyenne
Police Department from Spradle y Barr Motors, Chey enne, Wyoming (State Loan & Investment
Board funds, 2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-31-13 for furnishing two new mowers and one new utility cart for
the Parks & Recreation Department, Grounds & Facilities Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Anong Larsen and
Brett Larsen d/b/a Anong’s Thai Cuisine, 620 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Re-Appointments of Da nny Glick, J eff Lamm, Rick Robinson and Gay  VanHorn to the
Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board; Dick O’Gara and John Sundahl
to the Downtown Development Authority Board; Mary Bienz, Dean Meyer, Scott Thomas and Robin
Zimmer to the Pub lic Transit Advisory Board.  Mr. Allen move d to approve , seconded by Mr.
Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of
Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Appointments of Christopher Humphrey to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services
Joint Powers Board and Pat McGee and Hans Seitz  to the Downtown Development Authority Board.
Mr. Allen moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of May or Kaysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointments).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 8, 2013 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a tra nsfer of owne rship and
transfer of location for a re tail liquor license applica tion filed with the City  Clerk’s Of fice for
Safeway Stores 46, Inc. d/b/a Safeway Store #2975, 305 Cole Shopping Center, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(License currently held by Lambousis Revocable Trust, 112 West 17  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming).th
Under other business, Ms. Broyles advised at the June 10, 2013 City Council meeting the
motion to amend the City of Cheyenne’s sanitation fee schedule ordinance failed on 3  and finalrd
reading and, having voted on the pre vailing side and pursuant to Chapter 2.04 of City Code, she
moved to rec onsider the vote ta ken on the or dinance.  Mr. B rown seconded the motion.  May or
Kaysen requested Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, read the entitlement of the ordinance for the record,
which was read as follows:  An Ordina nce -- 3  Reading -- Ame nding the City of Chey enne’srd
Sanitation Fee  Schedule.  Ms. B royles explained that after r eviewing additional information
involving the ordinance and notes attached to the fee schedule that provide for clarification regarding
policy and procedures, she was requesting support for the motion to rec onsider.  Vicki Nemecek,
Assistant Public Works Director, provided an explanation of amendments that were approved prior
to the final vote at the June 10  meeting.  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” – all membersth
of the governing body.  Mayor Kaysen advised the motion now on the floor was the main motion to
approve the ordinance on third and final reading as twice amended at the June 10  meeting.  Ms.th
Broyles moved to amend by substitute dated June 17, 2013, referencing an attached memo from Jim
Elias, Director of Public Works, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Ms. Nemecek reviewed proposed changes
contained in the substitute fee schedule and notes and also the two amendments that were approved
at the last meeting included in the substitute.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek provided information on
billing procedures involving multiple businesses within one building and relationship to removing
the last sentence in Note 2 pursuant to legal staff advice; cardboard dumpster fee change, and existing
Note 3, which is not proposed for change.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.  Comment followed on Note 3 which reads: “If material is left
outside of containe rs (dumpsters)  requiring  manual pickup, the ow ner of  the pro perty may be
assessed an additional cleanup fee for manpower and equipment time at a rate of $25.00 per each 5
minute period or portion thereof.”  Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, advised typically
the cleanup time is less than 5 minutes.  He added careful consideration is given in assessing a fee
over the 5 minute time frame and if it is a one-time situation a fee isn’t charged, but if it’s a repeat
situation then the fee is charged.  Ms. Broyles moved to strike the words “or portion thereof” from
Note 3.  Motion died due to lac k of a second.  Upon inquiry regarding Notes 12 and 3, Mr. Elias
advised the container placement fee is $5 (Note 12), and explained unknown circumstances affecting
manpower time and ver ified documentation is recorded by the driver  (Note 3) .  Main motion as
amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms.
Williams voting “no”. (#3982)
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:08 p.m.
 Submitted by,
  
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 9, 2013