MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-07-08 | CLIP_ID: 383 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 383

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 July 8, 2013
The Go verning B ody of the C ity of  Che yenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Pre sent were: MAYOR - Richa rd L. Kaysen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two other membe rs is rec eived.  Any  item removed f rom the Consent Ag enda w ill be
considered in its normal sequence  on the agenda.)  Mr. B rown  moved to a pprove Consent
Agenda items, sec onded by Mr. Allen.  Mo tion carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 24, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in
vouchers payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and KRAE-AM respectively) and vacated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in
Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez returned
to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a transfer of
ownership and transfer of location for a retail l iquor license application filed with the City
Clerk’s Office for Safeway Stores 46, Inc. d/b/a Safeway Store #2975, 305 C ole S hopping
Center, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Lambousis Revocable Trust, 112 West
17  Str eet, C heyenne, Wy oming).  John  Sun dahl, attorney re presenting Sa feway, s poke inth
support of the tra nsfer; discussed Safew ay’s major remodeling plans for the Cole Shopping
Center pr operty; Safewa y’s commitment and contribut ion to the community ; benef its of
promoting economic development within the area, and stated that Safeway is seeking approval
for the license to provide alcohol package store products as a customer convenience.  He advised
the area for the retail package store would be approximately 2,000 sq. ft. with a separate outside
entrance (no inside entrance to the Safeway grocery store portion), and there would be no drive-
up window or bar environment.  He referenced and discussed previous information that had been
provided to me mbers of the governing body outlining affiliated benefits if the license was
approved, and distributed additional copies of the information (on file with City Clerk’s office).
Mr. Sundahl further commented on the “ parked” status of the c urrent license, noting it is not
providing any sales tax revenue benefits due to the status, and reasons why the applicant believes
approval of the transfer would not affect other liquor licensees in the area.  Jeff Fergot, design
manager and architect with Safeway Stores, stated an approved planned unit development (PUD)
zoning amendment to allow this type of property use was achieved in 2012 and that Safeway has
purchased the property.  He provided information on the re-development site plan and anticipated
new retail buildings and operations, as well as rehabilitation of some existing buildings, for the
property; cooperative work with the City on the new r ound-about adjacent to a po rtion of the
property; access/egress points within the lot, specifically noting a better designed delivery truck
route flow; dimensions and intende d uses of the pr oposed package store pr emises; Safeway
alcohol training program, including the company’s employee policy pertaining to alcohol sales,
and secur ity measure s.  During  his comments, Mr. Fe rgot displayed maps of the  proposed
development site, which includes the package store.  Mr. Sundahl added that employees working
in the package store will go through TIPS training as well as Safeway’s alcohol training program.
Tom Montoya, Chief of  Enforcement, Department of Re venue, Wyoming Liquor Divi sion,
expressed that the Liquor Division holds no position with regard to the application, and that he
was present to provide information per Mr. Sundahl’s request.  Mr. Montoya advised he was not
aware of any Wyoming town in which a package store operation affiliated with a grocery store
environment had devalued other liquor outlets in the area, and submitted hand-outs consisting
of a state-wide census report compilation of all currently approved liquor licenses and type of
license and a listing of grocery stores with liquor licenses.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Montoya advised
Wyoming law doesn’t allow bulk purchases by a licensee;  that the Liquor Division does not offer
quantity discounts, and that all licensees must buy malt beverages from a local distributor.  Jim
Weaver, realtor, advised he is affiliated with Safeway’s leasing efforts involving those areas that
will be renovated, and reviewed possible types of future businesses that may be interested in
locating on the prope rty, stating potential tenants are looking at the package store as a useful
convenience and that it will help with revitalization of the area.  John Lambousis, Lambousis
Revocable Trust (holder of the current liquor license), spoke in favor of the transfer and presented
reasons why he believes the proposed liquor store will not pose a competitive threat to other
package liquor stores in the City.  Upon inquiry, Terry Kunz, Safeway real estate representative,
advised although the package store would be a separate space, it will function and be treated as
any other store department, such as the bakery and deli departments.  Upon inquiry whether a
new Safeway store would be built if the transfer of the liquor license was not approved, Mr.
Fergot advised that would be a senior management decision and not his to make.  Ma jor Dorr
spoke in opposition of the transfe r, commenting on his disappointment re garding closure of
Safeway’s former store site on Pioneer  Ave. a nd expressing c oncerns regarding setting of  a
precedent that would allow alcohol to be sold in grocery stores and that, in the future, it may be
requested to expand the size of the liquor store.  Mr. Lambousis stated diversification of business
interests by many companies has evolved over the years and it is no longer unique to have liquor
and food sold at the same site or within the same shopping complex, as evidenced in other towns
in Wyoming.  Alberta LeGrande spoke in opposition to the transfer of ownership, citing concerns
with a package store in close vicinity of schools and the V.A. hospital and her belief there were
enough places already available to purchase alcohol.  Eric B urke commented on whether the
license mig ht b etter benefit another b usiness w hich w ould e ncourage mor e “ night l ife” in
Cheyenne.  John J ohnson, owner of  Old Chicag o restaurant, advised he  holds a reta il liquor
license in Casper and stated when big box stores in Casper acquired a liquor license it did have
an effect on other licensees.  Comments followed on past policy decisions by members of the
governing body to promote more restaurant-type environments involving retail liquor licenses;
antiquated state  laws involving li quor licensing ; sales conc erns r elated to big  box  store
environments; that the applica tion involves a transfe r request and not a lic ense the City has
available, and “parked” status of the current license.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Lambousis provided
information on his “parked” license as provided by state law and, upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer,
City Clerk, advised if, in the future, a request is made to enlarge the dispensing room, it will
come before the governing body for approval.  There being no further comments or input and
purpose of the hea ring having been me t, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and re ferred the
application to Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE - A mending various sec tions w ithin Chapter 5.68, B ody Art
Establishments and Operations, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne
City Code to provide for  a B ody Art Specia l Event Busine ss License and requirements for
participating body artists and guest body artists.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Allen, Mr. Cook and Dr.
Rinne voting “no”. (#3983)
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 5.08, Business License Fees, Section 5.08.250, Body
Art Establishments and Operations -- Body Artists, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations,
of the Cheyenne City Code to implement a license fee for Body Art Special Events.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Comment followed in
reference to a letter governing body members had received (on file with City Clerk’s office) and
support for regulating and licensing this type of business activity.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Allen, Mr. Cook and Dr. Rinne
voting “no”. (#3984)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classific ation from CB Community  Business to HI
Heavy Industrial for Lot 3, Block 2, Campstool Addition, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located north of and adjacent to Hutchins Drive, west of Campstool Road).  Reporting for Public
Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#3985)
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2. 1, Zoning Map Amendme nt, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MUB
Mixed Use Business Emphasis for Lots 1 through 4, Block 1, Cooley Subdivision, Cheyenne,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Bluegrass
Circle and Edgewater Avenue).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded
by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#3986)
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing classification f rom H I He avy I ndustrial to  CB
Community Business f or Lot 3, Block 1, Chey enne Business Parkway, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located west of and adjacent to Progress Circle, north of Campstool Road.  Mr. Allen moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Comment followed regarding a letter that
was re ceived by  the Deve lopment Office  from Va nDiest Supply  Co. in oppo sition to the
proposed z oning c hange, a nd r equest w as m ade t hat a  c opy b e p rovided t o C ity C ouncil.
Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, advised staff will provide a copy of
the letter and will also provide information of this type to Council members in the future.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - A mending the Chey enne U nified De velopment Code (UD C), as
approved by Ordinance No. 3943 on January 23, 2012, to adopt amendments identified as high
priority quick fixes from the 2013 annua l r eview.  Albert Simpson discussed his personal
experience involving buildings and properties he has restored or developed over the years under
past as well as the present codes and reviewed his concerns with the current UDC.  His comments
included PlanCheyenne and UDC development process concerns; costs to developers; submittal
and content of two freedom of information (FOI) requests (re: how much money has been spent
to develop PlanCheyenne and the UDC), and Mayor’s committee formed to review elements of
the UDC after Planning Commission’s initial review of the final draft in 2010.  Upon inquiry,
Mr. Simpson provided information relative to a past proposed development involving Maverick’s
convenience store.  M ayor Kaysen provided information on composition of the Critical Path
Committee involved in reviewing the UDC prior to its initial approval in 2012, and verified the
two freedom of information requests, submitted by Mr. Simpson at the meeting, were both dated
July 4, 2013.  Frank Cole stated that changes contained in the proposed ordinance doesn’t address
widths of driveways outside of curbs where two streets intersect at an angle and situations
affiliated with narrow  lot frontag es and lots on cur ves, and e xpressed that these ne ed to be
addressed in the code.  Paul Frauendienst advised he had served as a member of the Critical Path
Committee and various committees through compilation of the UDC and spoke in favor of the
ordinance, s tating t he a nnual r eview p rocess i s w orking e xactly as it s hould.  D oug S elby,
architect, expressed concerns with visual and quality architecture and his opinion that input on
the UDC by local architects was not being listened to.  H e stated his biggest issue was with
components of Article 6 of the UDC, specifically referencing color and material requirements and
design and shape of structures; commented that the UDC needs to have more flexibility and that
it goes too far in controlling the appearance of structures and landscaping designs, and advised
that some of the provisions, such as alternate designs, result in additional costs to property
owners.  He stated that staff review and the approval process is cumbersome and he, and some
others, would like to see Article 6 removed.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by  Mr. B rown.  Mr. A llen advised conc erns we re r aised a t the Public Services
Committee meeting regarding changes proposed in Section 10 of the ordinance and moved to
divide the question to allow for separate discussion and vote on Section 10 of the ordinance,
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
with the exception of Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles and Mr. Valdez voting “no”.  Discussion included
the following topics relative to Section 10 of the ordinance: Concern with regulations on those
trying to develop downtown properties; lack of certain provisions pertaining to the downtown
Central Business District (CBD) zone; new construction vs. additions to existing bui ldings;
historic nature of the downtown and providing protections or guidelines for development; Section
10 effect pertaining only to new construction with no requirement compelling the rehabilitation
or remodeling of existing buildings to meet the proposed new requirements; proposed ordinance
being the result of the first UDC annual review process and that the quick fixes do not include
other changes being considered; lack of site a nd building design standards for the CBD zone
compared to similar standards for some other zone types; relationship of Section 10 to Article
6, and revitalizing downtown involving a recent study and consultant recommendation.  Upon
inquiry during discussion, Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, provided
information regarding CBD provisions contained in past codes, current UDC code and proposed
Section 10 changes; interpretation of what the w ord “addition” means (floor area; height of a
building), a nd quick fixes proposed t hrough the annua l review  proce ss, including
recommendation by the Planning Commission, with ot her changes still being considered.  He
confirmed the CBD had min imal design standards in the previous codes prior to t he UDC.
Pursuant to a procedural point of order raised by Mr. Brown, Dan White, City Attorney, stated
the main motion was to approve the ordinance as written and the motion was seconded; after the
motion to di vide carried the motion (as aff iliated with the making  of the main mot ion) now
before the governing body was to vote on approval of Section 10.  Motion to approve Section 10
failed (due to a tie v ote).  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne and
Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.
Main motion to approve the ordinance, containing Sections 1 through 9 and 11 through 14, on
second reading carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City  of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land be ing
situated in portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23, 27, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as the Swan Ranch ll Anne xation (located
northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway and Tundra Drive) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendme nt, 2.2.2, Planned
Development - Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan, Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts
Established, and Sec tion 5.1.3, Official Z oning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zon ing classification from LI, Light Industrial, and PUD, Pl anned Unit
Development (County) to LI, Light Industrial, and PUD, Planned Unit Development (City) for
Lot 1, Block 2, Swa n Ranch Rail P ark, First Filing, Lots 1 through 4, a nd 6, Bloc k 1, Swan
Ranch Rail Park, Fourth Filing, all of Swan Ranch Rail Park, Fifth Filing, all of Swan Ranch Rail
Park, Seventh Filing, a parcel of land situated in a portion of the north half of Section 27, T.13N.,
R.67W., 6th P.M., and portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, and 23, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M. to be
known a s Sw an Ra nch Ra il Pa rk, E ighth F iling, Ch eyenne, Wyoming ( located e ast o f a nd
adjacent to Clear Creek Parkway and north of and adjacent to Tundra Drive) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendme nts, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-2 Medium Density Residential
– Developing to CB Community Business for Lot 4, Block 1, Kornegay Homesites, 2nd Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Kornegay Court, between Yellowstone
Road and Sunset Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - V acating a portion of Evans Ave nue adjacent to L ot 10, Block 12,
Pershing Heig hts Addition, C heyenne, Wy oming ( located a t the northwest cor ner of  the
intersection of E. 4th and Evans Avenues) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Vacating portions of Van Buren Avenue and Cheyenne Street adjacent
to Tracts 145, 146, 147 and 148, Sunnyside Addition, 5  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (locatedth
north of E. Pershing  Boule vard a nd east of Polk Avenue ) --  ref erred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from AR Agricultural Residential to LI
Light Industrial for L ots 1-3, Bloc k 1, Polk Additi on, Cheyenne, Wyoming ( located a t the
northeast corner of the intersection of E. Pershing Boulevard and Polk Avenue) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cooley
Subdivision, a replat of Lot 8, Block 8, Meadowbrooke Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at
the southwest corner of the intersection of Bluegrass Circle and Edgewater Avenue).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5501)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting  the City  of Chey enne’s Application for Tra nsportation
Alternatives Program (TAP) funding for implementation of the Wayfinding Plan.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5502)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement,
with C & S Halvorson, Lot 4, Energy Park One, Laramie County, Wyoming.  M otion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5503)
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Dissolving the L aramie County  Early  Childhood Education and
Development Joint Powers Board -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and City  Clerk to enter  into a Settlement
Agreement and Re-Development Agreement with 19  and Converse, LLC, a Colorado Limitedth
Liability Company, to settle all remaining issues relating to the acquisition of right-of-way for
the re-construction of the Converse Avenue/Pershing Boulevard/19  Street intersections, andth
approving, as a condition of settlement, the trade of certain real property owned by the City to
19  and Converse, LLC, described as Lots 30 and 31, Block One, Eastridge Addition, having anth
assessed value of  $81,590.00, in exchange for certain real property owned by 19  and Converse,th
LLC, consisting of approximately 9,504 square feet of land, being a portion of Lots 1 and 2, Ruth
Addition, having a n appraised value be tween $190,080.00 a nd $237,600.00, both properties
being located a t the intersec tion of Converse Ave nue and Per shing Boulevard, Chey enne,
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2013 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-
1-402 exist for a par cel of  land being  situated in portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23 , 27,
Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known
as the Swan Ranch II Annexation (located northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway
and Tundra Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - C reating the Employee Investment S tudy Implementation Team to
consider alternative means of implementing the Employee Investment Study conducted by the
Mercer Group, LLC -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen and Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Teton
Business Park, a replat of Lots 1 thru 4, inclusive, Block One, Classic Subdivision, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Westland and Old Happy Jack
Roads) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Polk
Addition, a replat of Tracts 145-148, Sunnyside Addition, 5  Filing, a replat of a portion ofth
vacated Van Bure n Avenue , a re plat of a por tion of vaca ted Chey enne Stre et, Chey enne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of E. Pershing Boulevard and Polk
Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A cknowledging r eceipt of the S trategic Downtown A ction Plan
‘Historic Placemaking: Strategies for Invigorating Downtown Cheyenne’ as a working document
and tool for Downtown Chey enne -- referred to Public Service s Committee (sponsor - - Dr.
Rinne).
[CA] Contract between City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department, and IMS Infrastructure
Management Servic es, Tempe, Ar izona, for pave ment condition survey , assessment and
inventory services (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $99,810.00). (#6025)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No. 1 for School Resource Officers, for the 2013 - 2014 school year.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City - $435,185.00). (#6026)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for
animal s helter s ervices.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$319,192.00). (#6027)
[CA] Agreement between the City of C heyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for
animal control service s.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$185,000.00). (#6028)
 
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Bill G. Hibbler f or professional legal
counsel assistance.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6029)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation
for Economic Development (LEADS) for industrial and economic development services.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $50,000.00). (#6030)
User Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and
Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, to host the 2013-2014 season at the City-owned
Ice and Events Center.  K ari Kivisto, Direc tor of L eisure Ser vices, Parks a nd Recre ation
Department, commented in support of the renewal agreement.  Mr. Brown moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Dan White, City Attorney, advised the substitute provides for language correction in Section 4.C.
relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages, which was listed in error, and that the change will
restrict sales to only malt beverages, which was contained in last year’s agreement.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended
by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#6031)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use
of the Cheyenne Civic Center  for the 2013-  2014 Concert Sea son -- re ferred to F inance
Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra  for use
of the Cheyenne Civic Center for Youth Education Concerts -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between Laramie County, Wyoming, an d t he C ity of
Cheyenne -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the Town of Hulett, Wyoming and the City of
Cheyenne, Wyoming for Law Enforcement Extraterritorial Assistance -- r eferred to Finance
Committee.
Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Casper, Wyoming and the City of
Cheyenne, Wyoming for Law Enforcement Extraterritorial Assistance -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee.  Mr. Brown advised that due to the governing body approval deadline of July 8, 2013
for the 2013 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration, the item was reviewed under other items for
the agenda at the July 1  Finance Committee meeting and provisions of Title 2 of City Code hadst
been met.  Mr. Brown moved to ap prove, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Chief Brian Kozak, Police
Department, explained the MOU will allow for combined resources involving assistance from
Casper police officers during Cheyenne Frontier Days and p rovides the a bility for Cheyenne
police officers, in return, to assist the City of Casper if requested.  He advised Casper officers will
utilize their own cars and will be assisting with DUI enforcement not only at Frontier Park but
on the stree ts as well; that there  would be no cost to the Ci ty; that office rs from the City  of
Laramie will also be assisting during the event, and noted grant funding assisting with expenses
being utilized by the other municipalities.  Upon inquiry, he advised both Casper and Laramie
officers will have the same authority as Cheyenne police officers have, and that wording relative
to the MOU’s term duration follows state law.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body.  (#6032)
Following a brief recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:15 p.m.
Memorandum of Under standing betwee n Cheyenne F rontier Da ys, I nc., the City  of
Cheyenne and Laramie County School District Number One, for buses owned by the Laramie
County School District Number One to be used and operated for public transportation services
during the 2013 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.   Mr.
Brown advised that due to the governing body approval deadline of July 8, 2013 for the 2013
Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration, the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at
the July 1  Finance Committee meeting and provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.  Mr.st
Brown moved to appr ove, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Dan White, City Attorney, explained that
following prior approval of two agreements, involving this item and the following agenda item,
by the gov erning body several weeks ago relating to the Par k and Ride prog ram, the sc hool
district requested changes which are reflected in the MOU.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. (#6006)
Contract between the City  of Chey enne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses
owned by the Laramie County School District Number One to be used and operated for public
transportation services during the 2013 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance
Committee.  Mr. Brown advised that due to the governing body approval deadline of July 8, 2013
for the 2013 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration, the item was reviewed under other items for
the agenda at the July 1  Finance Committee meeting and provisions of Title 2 of City Code hadst
been met.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry, Dan White,
City Attorney, confirmed his comments on the previous agenda item also related to this item.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#6007)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5921 be tween the City of Cheyenne and
Reiman Corporation to add additional work items to the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction
Project Phase I V (2007-2010 1%  Sales Tax, Boar d of Public Utilit ies, F ederal Hig hway
Administration Funding) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-29-13 for furnishing 10 Police vehicles for the City of Cheyenne
Police Department from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, Wyoming (State Loan & Investment
Board funds, 2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to
exceed $255,197.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-31-13 for furnishing two new mowers and one new utility cart
for the Parks & Recreation Department, Grounds & Facilities Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales
Tax).  Motion (p er C onsent A genda) c arried ( accept b id f rom G reenline/Stotz Eq uipment,
Casper, Wyoming in an amount not to exceed $50,774.88).
[CA] Consideration o f Bid #M-16-13 for Fiscal Year 2013 Concre te for Stre et and Alley
Overlay Part “B” pro ject between the City of C heyenne, Engineering Department, and S&S
Builders, L LC, Chey enne, Wy oming (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax) - - referred to Fi nance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-19-13 for 2013 City of Cheyenne Pavement Markings project
between the City  of Chey enne, Eng ineering D epartment, and Kolbe Striping , Castle Rock,
Colorado (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Under other business:
Pete Laybourn stated that accompanying documentation for agenda items included on the
City’s website is helpful and applauded Council members for their efforts in the challenges they
face as e lected officials.  He  discussed the importanc e of a scertaining the life e xpectancy of
streets relative to repairs and reconstruction; commented on infrastructure funding, resources and
planning for the future, and expressed concerns with the quality of concrete and asphalt products.
He requested Council look at history as to why some streets and curbs and gutters are failing as
correlated to c hanges in product mate rials and planning  on how to deal with future  street
infrastructure to provide for longer life expectancy.
Appreciation was extended to a City Engineer staff member for assistance involving a
sewer/drainage issue; question was posed regarding whether Mr. Herrick’s sanitation concerns
had been addressed; comment was made regarding contractors on construction projects not
cleaning up de bris, and it was noted that the Police De partment’s 4  annual Ne ighborhoodth
Night-Out event was scheduled for Tuesday evening, July 9 .  During comments, Mayor Kaysenth
advised the sanitation matter is still under on-going discussion, and advised staff will follow-up
with the construction project debris concern.
There being no further business to come bef ore the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 8:32 p.m.
 Submitted by,
  
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 18, 2013