MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-07-22 | CLIP_ID: 386 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 386

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 July 22, 2013
The Governing B ody o f t he C ity o f C heyenne m et i n r egular s ession o n t his da te
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present we re: MAYOR - Richard L . Kaysen;
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne (arriving at 6:04
p.m.), Mr. Shanor, Mr. V aldez and Ms. W illiams.  Absent: Ms. Broyles.  Also present: Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of
allegiance was recited.
Following explanation of action take n to change the order of the a genda at the recent
Public Services Committee meeting, Mr. Allen moved to suspend the rules to change the order
of the a genda to br ing f orward ag enda item #20 ( Resolution determining c onditions for
annexation exist for Swan Ranch II) for action prior to a genda item #9 ( Ordinance regarding
annexation for Swan Ranch II), seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by the governing body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two other membe rs is rec eived.  Any  item remo ved from the Consent Ag enda w ill be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Allen, and pursuant to
support received by Ms. Williams and Mr. Cook, agenda item #24 was removed from the Consent
Agenda.  Mr. Brown moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 8, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict o f interest (business interest in
vouchers payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and radio station KYOY-FM respectively) and
vacated Council Chambers. (City Clerk note: Dr. Rinne joined the mee ting in progress)  Mr.
Allen moved to appr ove payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion
carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all m embers of  the governing body present in Council Ch ambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development C ode, c hanging th e zoning c lassification f rom H I He avy I ndustrial to  CB
Community Business f or Lot 3, Block 1, Chey enne Business Parkway, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located west of and adjacent to Progress Circle, north of Campstool Road).  Cortney Thompson,
representative of Green House Data Center, spoke in support of the zone change, advising they
are pursuing the change in order to expand their facility and service operations and providing
information on growth of the company.  He stated the expansion affiliated with the zone change
request involves two vacant lots adjacent to the current facility site and that the company is
purchasing the lots from  Cheyenne LEADS.  He e xplained communication efforts by Green
House Data with Van Diest Supply Company, a neighboring company, who has indicated its
objection to the zone change.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#3987)
ORDINANCE - A mending the Chey enne U nified De velopment Code (UD C), as
approved by Ordinance No. 3943 on January 23, 2012, to adopt amendments identified as high
priority quick fixes from th e 2013 annual r eview.  B rad Harrington, Joe Hardy  and Alber t
Simpson commented in opposition to the UDC ge nerally citing c oncerns such as re gulatory
control and authority affecting private property rights; certain development aspects and design
level s tandards contained in the UDC, and that the UDC is resulting in increased costs t o
developers and property owners.  Request was made to repeal the UDC and reinstate prior codes.
M. Lee Hasenauer, Laramie County Commissioner, referenced a petition he had submitted at a
recent Public Services Committee meeting, noting it had been signed by individuals opposed to
the UDC, and submitted additional petition pages (on file with City Clerk’s office); commented
in opposition to the UDC generally, and requested the UDC be repealed.  Mr. Allen moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Upon inquiry, it was verified the
correct ordinance version before the governing body was one that was dated July 16, 2013 (City
Clerk n ote: date of City  Attorney stamp) re flecting that Sec tion 10 wording  contained in a
previous ordinance version had been removed due to an approved amendment at the July 8, 2013
Council meeting.  Comments followed in support of the quick fix ch anges contained in the
proposed ordinance and that additional changes should be forthcoming.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting
“no” -- Mr. Luna, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams. (#3988)
 RESOLUTION - Determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-
1-402 exist f or a parcel of land being situated in por tions of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23, 27,
Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known
as the Swan Ranch II Annexation (located northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway
and Tundra Drive).  Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Allen, seconded by
Mr. Cook, moved to amend with the following recommendation:  In order to meet the required
statutory criteria for annexation including findings of the annexation being for the protection of
health, safety, and welfare, staff recommends that the annexation be conditioned on dedication
of land for a future fire station.  That the governing body explore options to fund constructing,
equipping, and staffing the fire station, and direct staff to procure a study of the costs of new
development for the purpose of making policy decisions in the future about paying for capital
investments necessitated by development (i.e., road improvements, fire stations, etc.) and with
due consideration and credit given to the applicant for such dedication based in whole or in part
of the fair market value of said land.  Comments followed that additional information is being
worked on through discussions between the administration and the developer; that purpose of the
amendment may not be needed due to the topics involved in discussions, and that the governing
body should “ stay on track” with the  purpose of the resolution regarding statutory cr iteria.
Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body present.  Mr. Allen
moved to postpone to August 12, 2013, seconded by Mr. Brown.  M. Lee Hasenauer, Laramie
County Commissioner, questioned whether the “201" boundary had ever been set aside so land,
such as the remote location of this parcel, wouldn’t be subject to annexation requirements with
Mayor Ka ysen re sponding tha t he was not a ware o f any situation invol ving tha t scena rio.
Discussion included support of the postponement, construction of a proposed new fire station on
the property to be annexed and other developments and fire station locations.  During comments
involving a potential new fire station and other station sites in the community, Mr. Brown raised
a point of order that discussion should remain germane to the motion on the floor with Mayor
Kaysen ruling the point was well taken and advising there will be an opportunity to a ddress
questions on the purpose of a fire station in the area at a later time but that discussion should
pertain to the motion to postpone.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City  of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being
situated in portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23, 27, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be know n as the Swan Ra nch II Annexation (located
northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway and Tundra Drive).  Mr. Allen moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. Allen, seconded by Ms. Williams,
moved to amend with the following recommendation: In order to meet the required statutory
criteria for annexation including findings of the annexation being for the protection of health,
safety, and welfare, staff recommends that the annexation be conditioned on dedication of land
for a future fire station.  That the governing body explore options to fund constructing, equipping,
and staffing the fire station, and direct staff to procure a study of the costs of new development
for the purpose of making policy decisions in the future about paying for capital investments
necessitated by  development ( i.e., roa d improvements, fire  stations, etc.) a nd with due
consideration and credit given to the applicant for such dedication based in whole or in part of
the fair market value of said land.  Comments followed in non-support of the amendment for the
reasons presented during discussion on the previous agenda item.  Motion to a mend failed.
Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body present.  Upon inquiry, Jim Flesher, Planning
Department, expressed his opinion that he did not see any value in postponing the item at this
time as it is still on second reading.  Following further comment, main motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to S ection 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, 2.2.2, Planned
Development - Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan, Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts
Established, and Section 5.1.3, Offic ial Zoning Map, of the Chey enne Unified Development
Code, changing the zon ing classification from LI, Light Industrial, and PU D, Planned Unit
Development (County) to LI, Light Industrial, and PUD, Planned Unit Development (City) for
Lot 1, Block 2, Swa n Ranch Rail Park, F irst Filing, Lots 1 t hrough 4, and 6, B lock 1, Swan
Ranch Rail Park, Fourth Filing, all of Swan Ranch Rail Park, Fifth Filing, all of Swan Ranch Rail
Park, Seventh Filing, a parcel of land situated in a portion of the north half of Section 27, T.13N.,
R.67W., 6th P.M., and portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, and 23, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M. to be
known as S wan Ranc h Rail Park, Eig hth Filing, Che yenne, Wyoming ( located e ast of and
adjacent to Clear Creek Parkway and north of and adjacent to Tundra Drive).  Mr. Allen moved
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Comment was made that the ordinance
was on second reading with one more reading required.  Upon inquiry regarding landscaping
requirements included in the staff  repor t, J im Flesher , Planning De partment, provide d
information on landscaping requirements in a PUD zone and an alternative compliance option
provided to the developer.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendme nts, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-2 Medium Density Residential
– Developing to CB Community Business for Lot 4, Block 1, Kornegay Homesites, 2nd Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Kornegay Court, between Yellowstone
Road and Sunset Drive).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.
Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - V acating a portion of Evans Ave nue adjacent to L ot 10, Block 12,
Pershing Heig hts Addition, C heyenne, Wy oming ( located a t the northwest cor ner of  the
intersection of E. 4th and Evans Avenues).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  In response to comment regarding street right-of-way width, Brett
Walker, Planning/Development Office, advised that Evans Avenue had been rebuilt in recent
years and the amount of right-of-way needed is in place.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Vacating portions of Van Buren Avenue and Cheyenne Street adjacent
to Tracts 145, 146, 147 and 148, Sunnyside Addition, 5  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (locatedth
north of E. Pershing Boulevard and east of Polk Avenue).  Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for the
applicant, advised the proposed vacation was part of a preliminary plat process and the applicant
wishes to move forward with the process.  Mr. Allen reported there was no recommendation on
the item from Public Services Committee.  M r. Allen moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Dr. Rinne.  It was noted that discussion at the Public Services Committee meeting
centered around who should pay for any future costs if the property owner wanted to de-annex
a portion of the area.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to S ection 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from AR Agricultural Residential to LI
Light Industrial for L ots 1-3, Bloc k 1, Polk Additi on, Cheyenne, Wyoming ( located a t the
northeast corner of the interse ction of E. Pershing  Boulevard and Polk Avenue).  Mr . Allen
moved to  a pprove on  se cond r eading, s econded b y Mr . Sh anor.  I t was noted tha t Co unty
Planning staff present at the Public Services Committee meeting had expressed concerns with
the proposed change, and that the concerns were discussed.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of Title 8, Health and Safety, Chapter 8.44,
Solid Waste, of the Cheyenne City Code, pertaining to the general provisions of the Solid Waste
Code -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Shanor). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - D issolving the L aramie County  Ear ly Childhood Education and
Development Joint Powers Board.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5504)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Mayor and City  Clerk to enter  into a Settlement
Agreement and Re-Development Agreement with 19  and Converse, LLC, a Colorado Limitedth
Liability Company, to settle all remaining issues relating to the acquisition of right-of-way for
the re-construction of the Converse  Avenue/Pershing Boulevard/19  Street intersections, andth
approving, as a condition of settlement, the trade of certain real property owned by the City to
19  and Converse, LLC, described as Lots 30 and 31, Block One, Eastridge Addition, having anth
assessed value of  $81,590.00, in exchange for certain real property owned by 19  and Converse,th
LLC, consisting of approximately 9,504 square feet of land, being a portion of Lots 1 and 2, Ruth
Addition, having a n appraised value be tween $190,080.00 a nd $237,600.00, both properties
being located at the intersection of Converse Avenue and Pershing Boulevard, Chey enne,
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5505)
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2013 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#5506)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5507)
RESOLUTION - C reating the Employee Investment S tudy Implementation Team to
consider alternative means of implementing the Employee Investment Study conducted by the
Mercer Group, LLC.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown move d to amend by  substitute, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  It was
advised the substitute adds City Treasurer Lois Huff to the team as she was inadvertently omitted
on the initial resolution.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the g overning bo dy pr esent.  Mr . B rown mov ed to  a mend by  a dding a n a dditional f ifth
“Whereas” clause to read as follows: “Whereas, a final plan must be submitted to the governing
body for approval no later than January 1, 2014, and implementation process must begin within
the FY 2015 budget,” seconded by Mr. Allen.  It was noted the amendment would provide for
a specific time line in which the team would present the governing body with alternatives and
options for funding.  Concern was expressed that since the governing body had not yet received
the final salary study from the consultant that the amendment would commit implementation of
the recommendations prior to receipt and review.  Discussion included support for a time frame
in which the tea m would submit its recommendations; that implementation may  need to be
accomplished in stages, and that the governing body will approve the final plan.  Mayor Kaysen
provided an update on the consultant’s progress with the salary pay range portion of the study,
noting the employee 2.25% COLA (cost of living adjustment) approved with the FY2014 budget
has been incorporated into the ranges; reviewed components of the overall study, which includes
revised job descriptions and staffing analysis in addition to a proposed compensation pay plan,
and staff participation in the study process.  He noted a work session with the consultant and City
Council is planned for August 7  and, upon request, advised when information is received fromth
the consultant it will be shared with department heads first and then shared with City Council
members prior to the work session.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Main motion as twice
amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5508)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Teton
Business Park, a replat of Lots 1 thru 4, inclusive, Block One, Classic Subdivision, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Westland and Old Happy Jack
Roads).  Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Allen moved to postpone to
August 12, 2013 to allow for review of soil testing results, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Polk
Addition, a replat of Tra cts 145-148, Sunny side Addition, 5  Filing, a re plat of a por tion ofth
vacated V an B uren A venue, a  r eplat o f a  p ortion o f v acated Ch eyenne St reet, Che yenne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of E. Pershing Boulevard and Polk
Avenue).  Albert Simpson commented in support of the development action and forming a SID
(Special Improvement District) for the area, noting a petition requesting a SID had previously
been submitted, and reviewed the necessity for access to the sewer line for this and other related
areas.  Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Allen moved to postpone to
August 12, 2013, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Donna Ferguson, Planning and Development Office,
advised the final plat is dependent upon the pending road vacation approval for Polk Addition
and postponement of the item will allow both agenda items to be completed at the same time. 
Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
RESOLUTION - A cknowledging r eceipt of the Strateg ic Downtown Action Plan
‘Historic Placemaking: Strategies for Invigorating Downtown Cheyenne’ as a working document
and tool for Downtown Cheyenne.  Pete Laybourn provided a handout (on file with City Clerk’s
office) entitled De ploy Bucket Brigades for CFD; discusse d DDA ( Downtown Development
Authority) Strategy #1 included in the action plan relative to c lean-up of downtown areas in
preparation for Cheyenne Frontier Days activities; spoke in favor of receipt of the action plan and
the need to measure plan elements through its implementation; commented on private downtown
improvement efforts, and suggested sidewalk café business licensing requirements be reviewed.
Mr. Allen moved  to adopt, sec onded by  Mr. Shanor.  Comment was made  in support of
downtown sidewalk cafés, and review of the current licensing ordinance.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5509)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Submittal of an Application to the Wy oming Water
Development Commission for grant funding for engineering services and other administrative
costs for Phase III of the Southern Water Transmission Main Project in the amount of $1,206,000
and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute
the application and all rela ted documents --  referred to Fina nce Committee ( sponsors -- Mr .
Brown, Mr. Valdez).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  City  sta ff to c onduct a  stu dy of  the  so lid wa ste
collection and disposal system, conduct a rate study and review the feasibility of converting the
solid waste system to an enterprise fund -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen,
Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles).

[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement,
with Longhaul Enterprises, LLC, Lot 3, Block 1, Swan Ranch Rail Park, 4  Filing, Laramieth
County, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Valdez).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Swan
Ranch Rail Park, Eighth Filing, a Replat of Swan Ranch Rail Park, Sixth Filing, and portions of
Sections 14, 15, 22, 23 and 27, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P .M., Chey enne, Wy oming (loca ted
northwest of the intersection of Tundra and Clear Creek Parkway) -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the Title VI Program for the Cheyenne Transit Program,
Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Williams).  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use
of the Cheyenne Civic Center for the 2013- 2014 Concert Season.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (revenue to City - $19,200.00). (#6033) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra  for use
of the Cheyenne Civic Cente r for Youth Education Concerts.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried (amount not to exceed $6,500.00). (#6034)
[CA] Juvenile Housing  Ag reement between Laramie County , Wy oming, a nd the City  of
Cheyenne.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6035)  
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the Town of Hulett, Wyoming and the City of
Cheyenne, Wyoming for Law Enforcement Extraterritorial Assistance.  M otion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6036) 
[CA] Contract between the Wyoming Department of Transportation and the City of Cheyenne,
Public Works Department, to provide Transit Division with funding to purchase two replacement
buses (Wyoming Department of Transportation funding) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Public Works
Department, and United Way of Laramie County, for Technical Assistance to Human Services
Community Programs -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and AP
Wyoming, L LC, Chey enne, Wy oming f or Construction Manag er a t Risk S ervices for the
renovation and expansion of the Munic ipal Pool (1% Specific Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department, and Zayo Group,
LLC, to install a fiber optics line crossing a portion of the B elvoir Ranch (revenue to City) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Cont ract No. 5921 between the City of Cheyenne and
Reiman Corporation to add additional work items to the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction
Project Phase I V (2007-2010 1%  Sales  Tax, Boar d of Public Utilit ies, Fe deral Highw ay
Administration funding) .  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$82,694.45). (#5921)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5928 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks
and Recreation Department, and S & S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for additional work
to c omplete Pio neer P ark Pa rking Lot Improvements (Parks F acilities f unds) - - r eferred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-16-13 for  Fisc al Year 2013 Concrete for Street a nd Alley
Overlay Part “B” pro ject between the City of C heyenne, Engineering Department, and S&S
Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $749,109.64). (#6037)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-19-13 for 2013 City of Cheyenne Pavement Markings project
between the City  of Chey enne, E ngineering D epartment, an d Kolbe Striping, Castle Rock,
Colorado (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to
exceed $115,971.00). (#6038)
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-2-14 to purcha se two re placement vehicles w ith two ¾ ton
trucks and two new ¾ ton trucks for the Parks and Recreation Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales
Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-18-13 for annual contracts for snow removal and other services
(2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
Transfer of ownership and transfer of location for a retail liquor license application filed
with the City Clerk's Office for Safeway Stores 46, Inc. d/b/a Safeway Store #2975, 305 Cole
Shopping Center, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Lambousis Revocable Trust,
112 West 17  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Major Dorr, Alberta LeGrande, Ed Clark and Janth
Nelson Schroll spoke in opposition to the license transfer citing availability of liquor outlets
currently in the area/community; and expressing concerns involving potential expansion of the
dimensions of the proposed package store in the future; proximity of the proposed site to schools;
minors in possession of alcohol; Safeway corporate holdings not having a direct relationship with
Wyoming and profits not remaining at the local level, and setting a p recedent in awarding a
license tha t would be af filiated with a g rocery store envir onment.  J ohn Sundahl, attorney
representing the applicant, commented on Safeway’s long-standing community support and its
financial investment in re-developing the site, which will promote economic development for the
Cole Sh opping Ce nter a rea.  H e n oted Sa feway’s c ontributions to  lo cal e mployment, the
community’s tax base and org anizational and prog ram contributions an d sponsorships, and
pointed out that no objection was raised by the neighborhood during the public hearing nor the
previous Board of Adjustment (zoning appr oval) process.  He advised Saf eway operates as
competitively as other stores providing similar services and that the corporation wishes to provide
a convenient shopping experience for its customers.  He explained the proposed 2,000 sq. ft.
package store will have an outside entrance, noting if there was any request to change dispensing
room dimensions in the future it would require governing body approval, and urged support for
approval of the application.  Pat Crank, attorney representing Maury Brown, spoke in opposition
to the transfer stating approval would be a significant policy shift for the community and City
Council in awarding the license to a “big box” store.  He discussed historical importance of local
licensees and noted their commitments to and investments in the community; unfair business
pricing advantage of a big box store over “mom and pop” operations, citing provisions of  Wyo.
Stat. 40-4-107 involving unlawful competition, and potential for future size expansion or change
in entry access to the proposed package store.  He encouraged support that liquor licenses be held
by local business persons and urged that the application be denied.  Jim Weaver, #1 Commercial
Properties, CCM (Certified Commercial Investment Manager), stated he had been retained by
Safeway to assist with re-development efforts for the Cole Shopping Center by finding businesses
to lease pr operty on the site, and spoke in support of  awarding the license  to Saf eway.  He
advised that elements involving site analysis and criteria are utilized by companies in determining
store locations for various kinds of developments, whether it was for a grocery store, restaurant
or a big box business that moves into a community.  He discussed the current 36 retail-type liquor
licenses currently approved by City Council; differing operational aspects involved and average
dispensing room size of other licensees; Safeway’s convenience store intent for its customers;
Safeway’s financial philosophy affiliated with each of its store departments and the corporation’s
estimated $30,000,000 to be expended in improveme nts benefitting the City , and Safe way’s
willingness to be r estricted to the 2,000 sq. f t. dispensing r oom.  During  his co mments, Mr.
Weaver r eferred to  tw o ma ps he  dis played depicting the  loc ation o f o ther r etail l icenses,
including two county licensees, and those representing operations (i.e. package store) the same
as the ty pe being  reque sted by  Safew ay. Kevi n Georges commente d on a re cent incide nt
involving a current retail licensee that, due to violations, resulted in City Council taking action
to require closure of the business for a certain time frame, and questioned if the license transfer
was approved and at some point there was a violation of law and Council wished to penalize the
licensee in a similar manner, would the entire grocery store be shut down.  Upon request, Dan
White, City Attorney, advised he and Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, had discussed this topic and,
following review of statutes and City Code, it was their conclusion that, in the event Safeway
were to violate any liquor state statutes or provisions of City Code and the Council decided to
impose any closure action, only the dispensing room would be shut down (i.e. package store) not
the entire grocery store.  Mr. White clarified the entire building of the licensee involved in the
incident resulting in a temporary business closure, as referenced by Mr. Georges, was designated
as the dispensing room and, therefore, that was why both the package store and bar areas were
involved in the temporar y closure.  Mr. G eorges spoke in opposition to the transfer  and
commented on his belief that approving the license transfer would not help with economic
development of the shopping center site, noting currently vacant buildings and closed businesses
on the property.  He discussed concerns with losing local control, big box stores holding a liquor
license, and setting a precedence.  Eddie Georges, D.T.’s liquor licensee, spoke in opposition to
the transfer, commenting on loss leader pricing strategies; compliance responsibility involving
sales to minors and support for the principles of business competition generally, and advocated
having liquor licenses remain with “locals”.  Christine Fitzgerald, area resident within the vicinity
of the proposed license site, spoke in support of the transfer, stating the package store and new
grocery store will benefit revitalization of the area.  Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen
reconvened the meeting at 9:00 p.m.  Mr. Brown reported there was no recommendation on the
item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Allen.  M r.
Brown stated, pursuant to questions he had been personally asked recently, that he did not have
a business relationship with the applicant and, therefore, he did not have a conflict of interest.
Discussion topics included:   Aspects of competition; local control; state law r estricting the
availability of these ty pes of liquor lice nses; license be ing an existing license and not a ne w
license available through the City; Safeway’s proven community track record; whether Safeway
would continue to build its new store if the application was not approved; conditioning that the
2,000 sq. ft. size of the dispensing room be a future license requirement; allowing the current
licensee to have the opportunity of selling its property interest in the license to a willing buyer;
fairness concerns; retail liquor licenses being a valuable asset of the holder due to restrictions
placed on the limited number that can be issued per state statutes; best use of these types of liquor
licenses in the City; past utilization of the license when it was operated as the former Mayflower
establishment vs proposed license use as a package store; best use of the lice nse and whether
approval of the transfer will assist with economic development of the area, and support for the
existing license holder to operate under the license.  During discussion comments were made in
support as we ll as non-support of the lice nse transfer and, upon inquiry , Mr. Sundahl stated
Safeway ha s ma de a  fi nancial c ommitment t o th e pr operty as well a s a n in vestment i n
development plan ning, ad vising tha t Sa feway ha s p urchased th e sit e, a nd pla ns to s tay in
Cheyenne.  Motion to approve failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown and Mr. Shanor.  Voting “no”
-- Mr. Allen, Mr. Cook, Mr.  Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.
[CA] Annual Report to the C ity of Chey enne regarding capital improve ments made a t the
Airport Golf Course as required by Lease Agreement -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of the Re-appointment of Jane M. France to the Community
Action of Laramie County, Inc. Board of Directors to be confirmed August 12, 2013.
Under other business, Mayor Kaysen advised there was another item for the agenda that
involved timeliness and reque sted the City Clerk re ad the e ntitlement of the item.  Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, read the entitlement as follows:  “Contract between the City of Cheyenne,
Police Department, and Wyoming Division of Criminal Investigation for task force officers to
serve as members of a joint drug enforcement team.”  Mayor Kaysen referred the item to Finance
Committee.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 9:18 p.m.
 Submitted by,
  
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 August 6, 2013