MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-08-12 | CLIP_ID: 389 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 389

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 August 12, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  P resent were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen (arriving at 6:05 p.m.), Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna,
Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.   Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk;
Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Mr. Shanor moved to suspend the rules to change the order of the agenda to bring forward
agenda item #18 (Resolution determining conditions for annexation exist for Swan Ranch II) for
action prior to agenda item #7 (Ordinance regarding annexation for Swan Ranch II), seconded by
Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the governing body and will be e nacted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two other members is re ceived.  Any  item removed f rom the Consent Ag enda w ill be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to
support received by Mr. Brown and Dr. Rinne, agenda item #20 was removed from the Consent
Agenda.  Mr . Brown moved to approve re maining Consent Ag enda items, sec onded by Mr.
Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 22, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Valdez declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to KYOY-
FM) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove payment of vouchers as
presented, sec onded by Mr. Shano r.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” - - all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Valdez
returned to Council Chambers. (City Clerk note: Mr. Allen joined the meeting in progress).
 RESOLUTION - Determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-
1-402 exist for a par cel of  l and being situated in portions of Sec tions 14, 15, 22, 23, 27,
Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known
as the Swan Ranch II Annexation (located northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway
and Tundra Drive) (Postponed from July 22, 2013).   Reporting for Public Services Committee,
Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Comments followed regarding non-support
of the annexation due to location of the prope rty, emergency access concerns, proposed zone
classification (light industrial/PUD), future costs to the City relative to an anticipated new fire
station within the area, maintenance costs of City areas, and a proposed amended and restated
Development Agreement introduced on the meeting agenda.  Mr. Allen moved to postpone for
two wee ks (to Aug. 26, 2013), seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for the
applicant, referenced the current Development Agreement, entered into approximately 2 years
ago, noting the a greement states that fut ure developments must come bef ore the  City  for
approval.  He stated it is understood thing s have c hanged since  the ini tial Deve lopment
Agreement and, therefore, a revision to the agreement is proposed.  Scott Sutherland, Granite
Peak Development, advised they have been working for the past two years to move toward the
development process, and expressed concern with delay if the postponement were approved as
it may affect discussions currently being held with compan ies interested in locating upon the
property.  Comments followed in support of postponing the item to allow for further discussion
on concerns that have been raised and for Council members to have time to review the proposed
amended and restated Development Agreement at the next Finance Committee meeting.  Upon
inquiry, Mr. Sutherland confirmed that before any sale of parcels can be in place with interested
companies, the platting process, whic h is in conjunction with the annexation action, must be
completed first, and Mr. Emmons advised additional hard copies of supporting materials included
with the ag enda item pa cket would be  provided to  Council members.  Motion to postpone
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City  of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being
situated in portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23, 27, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be know n as the Swan Ranc h II Annexation (located
northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway and Tundra Drive).  Mr. Allen moved to
approve on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Allen moved to amend by
substitute, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry, Jim Flesher, Planning Department, advised
the substitute amends Section #5 by inserting a provision that the ordinance will not become
effective until the amended and restated Development Agreement between the City and property
owners is entered into (and filed).  Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, advised in light of
the previous agenda item be ing postponed, he sugg ested this item also be def erred to allow
related agenda items be approved at the same time.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney,
stated he believed the amendment was proper to move forward.  Comments followed in support
of the amendment.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the g overning
body.  Mr. Allen moved to postpone for two weeks (to Aug. 26, 2013), seconded by Mr. Shanor.
Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pur suant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, 2.2.2, Planned
Development - Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan, Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts
Established, and Sec tion 5.1.3, Official Z oning Map, of the Chey enne Unified Development
Code, changing the zon ing classification from LI, Light Industrial, and PUD, Pl anned Unit
Development (County) to LI, Light Industrial, and PUD, Planned Unit Development (City) for
Lot 1, Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail Park, F irst Filing, Lots 1 through 4, a nd 6, Bloc k 1, Swan
Ranch Rail Park, Fourth Filing, all of Swan Ranch Rail Park, Fifth Filing, all of Swan Ranch Rail
Park, Seventh Filing, a parcel of land situated in a portion of the north half of Section 27, T.13N.,
R.67W., 6th P.M., and portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, and 23, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M. to be
known as Swan Ranc h Rail P ark, Eighth Filing, Che yenne, Wyoming ( located e ast of and
adjacent to Clear Creek Parkway and north of and adjacent to Tundra Drive).  Mr. Allen moved
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Allen moved to amend by
substitute, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  It was noted the substitute amends the entitlement to correct
a clerical error contained at the end of the title by changing “... (located east of and adjacent to
Clear Creek Parkway ...)” to “... (located west of ...)”.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.  Comments followed regarding postponing the item as it was
affiliated with the previous items that had be en postponed, and that wording in the ordinanc e
provides that if the or dinance was a pproved it would not be e ffective u ntil the annexation
ordinance and final plat were approved and filed.  Main motion as amended c arried.  Voting
“yes” -- all member s of the governing body with the exception of Mr. B rown voting “no”.
(#3989)
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendme nts, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-2 Medium Density Residential
– Developing to CB Community Business for Lot 4, Block 1, Kornegay Homesites, 2nd Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Kornegay Court, between Yellowstone
Road and Sunset Drive).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by
Dr. Rinne.  Comment followed that the c hange should increase buffering in the area.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#3990)
ORDINANCE - V acating a portion of Evans Avenue a djacent to L ot 10, Block 12,
Pershing Heig hts Addition, C heyenne, Wy oming ( located a t the northwest cor ner of  the
intersection of E. 4t h and Evans Avenues).  Mr. A llen moved to approve  on third and final
reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body. (#3991)
ORDINANCE - Vacating portions of Van Buren Avenue and Cheyenne Street adjacent
to Tracts 145, 146, 147 and 148, Sunnyside Addition, 5  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (locatedth
north of E. Pershing Boulevard and east of Polk Avenue).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on third
and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. (#3992)
ORDINANCE - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from AR Agricultural Residential to LI
Light Industrial for L ots 1-3, Bloc k 1, Polk Additi on, Cheyenne, Wyoming ( located a t the
northeast corner of the interse ction of E. Pershing  Boulevard and Polk Avenue).  Mr . Allen
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  It was noted that County
Planning staff had attended a Public Services Committee meeting expressing buffering concerns
and sugg esting a diffe rent zone cla ssification, and following  discussion with staff it was
determined the proposed zone chang e ty pe wa s appropr iate for  the deve lopment and ar ea
involved and addresses some of the buffering concerns.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. (#3993)
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of Title 8, Health and Safety, Chapter 8.44,
Solid Waste, of the Cheyenne City Code, pertaining to the general provisions of the Solid Waste
Code.  Providing comments on the ordinance topic were:  Jeff Tray, Aspen Real Estate, owner
of business property involving tenants; Dick O’Gara, Board President, Downtown Development
Authority; Tim Bieligk, downtown business tenant; Phil Herrick, downtown business property
owner; Julie Gliem, Cheyenne Landlords Association; Karlena Johnson, co-owner, The Kat’s
Meow, downtown business tenant; Glen Garrett, downtown business and office building owner,
and Major Dorr.  Topics discussed included: Concerns with the current rate structure relative to
increases in rates and resulting financial increase to tenants; multiple businesses housed in one
commercial building; occurrence of solid waste pick-ups, rates for those operating businesses out
of their homes vs. commercial districts; rate inequities; support for the proposed ordinance;
inappropriate use of assigned dumpsters by unauthorized persons; support for recycling efforts;
current fee structure and financial hardship on small businesses; generation of minimal waste
relative to container size and fees and concerns affiliated with unauthorized dumping.  During
comments and in response to inquiries, Mayor Kaysen advised, like most businesses, the City’s
cost of providing services increases with proposed rate increases reviewed by the governing body,
and Jim Elias, Director of Public Works, provided information on current solid waste provisions,
including service fees, container sizes, pick-up schedule and code enforcement involvement for
unauthorized container users.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Elias pro vided information on
procedures available (i.e. contact Sanitation office) with regard to vacant properties or owners
who wish to request temporary suspension of services. Discussion followed and included support
for a fee study involving the entire sanitation ra te system; loss of revenue  to the City  if the
proposed ordinance was approved and concerns/options on how to make up the budget revenue
deficit amount; comments in support as well as non-support of the  rate change; number of
commercial accounts that may be affected by the change; “pay as you throw” programs; January
1, 2014 ordinance effective date, if approved; inequities in rate structure; fair and justifiable laws
and policies; feasibility of implementing the rate change on a trial (one year) basis; effect of the
rate chang e; delaying a ny rate  chang es until an overa ll system fee study is conducted a nd
anticipated time frame in which to conduct a  study, and legal requirement to have a balanced
budget.  During discussion, it was clarified if the ordinance were approved the estimated amount
of lost reve nue would be a pproximately $3 25,000 annually , and Mr. Elias a dvised of the
estimated number of commercial containers currently being utilized.  Mayor Kaysen stated a
proposed resolution, also on the meeting agenda, would provide for looking at the entire structure
of sanitation services, including fees and efficiencies, and recommendations.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to S ection 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom MU B M ixed-Use B usiness
Emphasis to P Public for a portion of Lot 1, Block 2, and ½ of vacated Vosler Place, Plaza Del
Range, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest cor ner of the intersec tion of Sheridan
Street and Ridge Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).  
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Se ction 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, ch anging the  zoning classific ation from A- 1 Ag ricultural a nd Rural
Residential (County) to MUR Mix ed-Use Residential Emphasis for Sny der Plaza, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Snyder Avenue, north of W. Allison Road) -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen). 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5 .1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom A -1 a nd MU  (C ounty) t o CB
Community Business for a parcel of land situated in a portion of the South Half of Section 20,
T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Terre
Pont ( located a t th e no rtheast c orner o f t he int ersection o f Frontier Mall  Drive and Pra irie
Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - A mending, cre ating, deleting  and re-c reating va rious chapte rs and
sections within Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Cheyenne City Code relating to
General Provisions, and including Adoption of the International Building Code and other Related
Codes, 2012 Edition; The National Electrical Code, 2011 Edition; and the International Energy
Conservation C ode, 2009 Edition -- re ferred to Public Service s Commi ttee (sponsor - - Mr.
Allen).
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Teton
Business Park, a replat of Lots 1 thru 4, inclusive, Block One, Classic Subdivision, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Westland and Old Happy Jack
Roads) (Postponed from July 22, 2013).  Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.
Mr. Allen moved to postpone to August 26, 2013, seconded by Mr. Brown.  It was advised the
postponement is at the request of the developer to allow for review of soil testing results.  Motion
to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Polk
Addition, a replat of Tracts 145-148, Sunny side Addition, 5  Filing, a re plat of a por tion ofth
vacated Van B uren A venue, a  rep lat of a portion of va cated Chey enne Stre et, Chey enne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of E. Pershing Boulevard and Polk
Avenue)  (Postponed from July 22, 2013).  Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5510)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Submittal of an Application to the Wy oming Water
Development Commission for grant funding for engineering services and other administrative
costs for Phase III of the Southern Water Transmission Main Project in the amount of $1,206,000
and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute
the application and all related documents.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5511)
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  City  sta ff to conduct a  stu dy of  the  so lid wa ste
collection and disposal system, conduct a rate study and review the feasibility of converting the
solid waste system to an enterprise fund.  Commenting in favor of the resolution were:  Dick
O’Gara, Board President, Downtown Development Authority; Jeff Tray and Tim Bieligk.  Topics
presented included: I ncentives to re duce waste and “pay as y ou throw” programs to reduce
landfill space, support for a rate study, and current rate inequities which may exist.  Mr. Bieligk
commented that a study would prevent the executive branch of City government from making
private deals regarding sanitation fees and he stated his belief that such deals had been made.  Mr.
Brown reported there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown
moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Up on inquiry requesting an explanation of his
previous comment regarding private deals, Mr. Bieligk stated one of the points he was hinting
at was that a study would assist in preventing any private deals being negotiated between private
property owners and [Ci ty] ex ecutives, and that fee  structures and ordinances be f ollowed.
Discussion followed pursuant to further inqu iry to Mr. Bieligk on his implied alleg ation of a
private de al be ing ne gotiated.  Ma yor Ka ysen r elinquished d uties o f the chair to  Cou ncil
President Rinne to enable him to participate in discussion.  Following comments which involved
further inquiries, Mr. B ieligk admitted that he was “ alleging hearsay”.  President Rinne then
requested Mr. Bieligk to submit any written documentation involving his implied allegation to
the City Attorney by the close of business on Friday (August 30, 2013).  Discussion followed in
support of the p roposed study and the components and purpose of the study, information to
Council members during the study process, and estimated “ballpark” cost for the study.  Upon
inquiry, J im Elias , Public Works Director, a dvised the cost of the  study is estimated to be
approximately $30,000-$50,000 with funding from the solid waste fund.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” - all mem bers of the g overning body with the exception of Mr. Va ldez voting “no” .
Following announcement of the vote, President Rinne returned duties of the Chair back to Mayor
Kaysen. (#5512)
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:20 pm.  
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement,
with Longhaul Enterprises, LLC, Lot 3, Block 1, Swan Ranch Rail Park, 4  Filing, Laramieth
County, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5513)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Swan
Ranch Rail Park, Eighth Filing, a Replat of Swan Ranch Rail Park, Sixth Filing, and portions of
Sections 14 , 15, 22, 23 and 27, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P.M ., Chey enne, Wy oming ( located
northwest of the intersection of Tundra and Clear Creek Parkway).  Mr. Allen moved to adopt,
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Allen moved to amend to include sta ff recommendations #1
through 3, seconde d by Mr. B rown.  Staff  reco mmendations were recited for the r ecord as
follows:  1) Enter into a revised development agreement addressing future road improvements
that may be necessary depending on the amount of traffic generated within the development; 2)
Dedicate to the City Lot 18, Block 2, for a future fire station location or enter into an agreement
with the City regarding dedication of land for a fire station; 3) The Governing Body endorse a
study of the costs of new development for making policy decisions in the future that are definitive
about who pays for capital investments necessitated by development (i.e., road improvements,
fire station, etc.).  Buck Holmes, Laramie County Commissioner, questioned the effect on the
developer if the land was not annexed and it was advised the plat would not become effective if
the a nnexation is n ot a pproved.  B rad Emm ons, AVI, agent f or the  a pplicant, a dvised if
annexation was not approved, they would like to proceed with the project through the County
platting process.  Scott Sutherland, Granite Peak Development, requested the plat be approved
to enable them to move forward with communication efforts with parties interested in developing
on the site.  Comment was made r elative to staff  rec ommendation # 3 and whether it wa s
applicable to the resolution.  Dr. Rinne moved to divide the question to allow for a separate vote
on staff recommendation #3, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes” – a ll
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Allen, Mr.  Luna and Ms. Williams
voting “no”.  Discussion on staff recommendation #3 followed.  Matt Ashby, Planning Services
Director, clarified that staff had identified this recommendation as being an important study to
conduct, which was confirmed by the Planning Commission to i nclude as a recommendation.
During further discussion and, upon inquiry, Mr. Ashby advised he did not foresee this type of
recommendation being proposed on a regular basis but that it was associated enough with the
conversations on this proposed plat to request the study; provided information on the estimated
time frame in which to conduct the study ; anticipated study costs relative to components that
would be studied and identification of a funding source for the study by City Council as funding
is not within Planning’s current budget; pending development actions that could be impacted if
plat approval was delayed, and beneficial information on how to address growth related issues
that can be obtained as the result of a study.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised
his belief that the recommendation should probably be acted upon as a separate resolution and
not included with the final plat action as it is n ot usually associated with approval of a plat.
Discussion continued and included verification that the re-zoning ordinance for the property had
been approved earlier in the meeting .  Mr. Ashby  suggested that c ost of t he study could be
recouped through future fees, and discussed a possible time frame for a separate resolution to be
introduced and approved.  Motion to approve the inclusion of staf f recommendation #3 in the
previous motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown. Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms.
Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. L una, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez, Ms. Williams and Mayor
Kaysen.  Discussion on staff recommendations #1 and 2 included a request by Mr. Emmons that
the resolution be postponed for 2 weeks due the development potentially changing to a county
plat vs. city plat process if the annexation ordinance was not approved.  Dr. Rinne raised a point
of order as to the motion on the floor with Mayor Kaysen clarifying that discussion was currently
being entertained on the motion to amend which now includes staff recommendations #1 and 2.
Motion to  a mend to i nclude sta ff reco mmendations #1  a nd 2 c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll
members of the g overning body with the exception of Mr. B rown voting “no”.  Mr. Brown
moved to  po stpone for 2 weeks ( to A ug. 2 6, 20 13), se conded b y Ms.  Broyles.  Mo tion to
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the Title VI Program for the C heyenne Transit Program,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5514)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat
for De erhaven Subdivision, 2  Filing , a re plat of L ot 1, Block 2, Dee rhaven Subdivis ion,nd
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Montalto Drive
and E. Fox Farm Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  fi ling of  a n a pplication w ith the  F ederal T ransit
Administration, and Operating Administration of the United States Department of Transportation,
for Federal Transportation Assistance Authorized by Title 49, United States Code, Section 5307
-- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne to enter
into an amended and restated Development Agreement with Granite Peak Development, LP,
Clear Creek Land Company, LLC, and Swan Ranch, LLC to define the rights and obligations of
the parties relating to the annexation and future economic development of the land generally
described as the “Swan Ranch Development Area” -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an Application to the Wyoming Business
Council, Business Ready  Communi ty Gra nt and L oan Prog ram for  funding  throug h the
Downtown Development Grant and Loan Program for an elevated walkway -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing submission of a Miner al Royalty Capital Construction
Account Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the
Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne to assist in financing the Logan Avenue Sanitary Sewer
Rehabilitation Project - Nationway to East Pershing Boulevard -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Snyder Plaza, a replat of a portion of Blocks 80 and 81, formerly
known as I nterior Heights Addition, now vacated, be ing a portion of the NE¼ of  Section 7,
T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Snyder Avenue,
north of W. Allison Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee. 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Ter re Pont, a portion of the  S outh Half of Sec tion 20, T.14N.,
R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection
of Frontier Mall Drive and Prairie Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Contract between the Wyoming Department of Transportation and the City of Cheyenne,
Public Works Department, to provide Transit Division with funding to purchase two replacement
buses (Wyoming Department of Transportation funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#6039)
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Public Works
Department, and United Way of Laramie County, for Technical Assistance to Human Services
Community Programs.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $250,000.00
annually/2 year term). (#6040) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and AP
Wyoming, L LC, Chey enne, Wy oming f or Constr uction Manag er a t Risk S ervices for  the
renovation and expansion of the Municipal Pool (1% Specific Purpose  Sa les & Use Ta x).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $477,966.00). (#6041) 
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department, and Zayo Group,
LLC, to inst all a fibe r optics line cr ossing a portion of the B elvoir Ranch (revenue to Cit y).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to City). (#6042)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Wyoming Division of
Criminal Investigation for task force officers to serve as members of a joint drug enforcement
team.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6043) 
[CA] Lease Agreement between City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and the
Wyoming De partment o f E nvironmental Q uality fo r a ir mon itoring/quality in t he No rth
Cheyenne Community Park (revenue to City) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Agreement betwee n t he C ity of Chey enne a nd Stride L earning Ce nter to provide
cooperative transit services (revenue to City) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne, Y outh Alternatives, a nd L aramie Cou nty
Community Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth
at Johnson Junior High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Eight Grantst
funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie
County, Wyoming, for juvenile probation services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Lease Agreement between City of Chey enne, Information Technology Division, and
Xerox by Xerox Agent XESI for a high volume production black and white copier -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of FAA Grant #3-56-0005-49 between the City of Cheyenne, County of
Laramie, and the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000.00
for the Rehabilitation of Runways 9/27 and 13/31 (rubber removal and  paint), Rehabilitation of
taxiways (paint), a nd the Rehabilitation of the lig hting control system -- re ferred to F inance
Committee.
[CA] Agreement between Owner and Architect, Standard Form of Architect's Services, and
Exhibit A (AI A Documents B102-2007 and B 201-2007) between the City of Chey enne and
Pappas & Pappas Architects, P.C., for design and construction contract administration services
for the new Cheyenne Public Safety Center, 17th and Pioneer, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred
to Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan
Planning Organization, and A.V.I. p.c., for Division Avenue Corridor/Wallick Road Preliminary
Design Plan (Metropolitan Planning Organization funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5928 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks
and Recreation Department, and S & S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for additional work
to com plete Pioneer Park Parking  L ot I mprovements (Par ks Fa cilities funds.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $88,854.35). (#5928)
 [CA] Consideration of Bid #R-2-14 to purchase two re placement vehicles w ith two ¾ ton
trucks and two new ¾ ton trucks for the Parks and Recreation Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales
Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne;
amount not to exceed $106,120.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-18-13 for annual contracts for snow removal and other services
(2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from JTL Group
Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, and S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne). (#6044/#6045)
 
[CA] Consideration of B id #R- 4-14 for furnishing and installing miscellane ous police car
equipment for the  City  of Chey enne, Police D epartment, from  L.A.W.S. of Eng lewood,
Colorado (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, State Land and Investment Board) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-3-14 for  a cont ract betwee n the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and J TL Group Inc., d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the
Campstool Road Overlay Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-3-14 for f urnishing bulk ice c ontrol product to the City  of
Cheyenne, Pu blic Wo rks D epartment ( 2011 -  2 014 1 % Sa les T ax) - - r eferred to  F inance
Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-1-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks &
Recreation Department, and Caylor & Genz Earthmovers, Inc., Torrington, Wyoming, for the
Lake Min nehaha Re mediation Pl an, Pha se 1 Pr oject (State &  Local G rants) - - r eferred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-2-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks &
Recreation Department, and Reiman Corporation and Subsidiary, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the
Renovation and Expansion of the Chey enne Botanic Gardens Phase 1 - Roads Project ( 1%
Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Annual Report to the City  of Cheyenne regarding capital improve ments made a t the
Airport Golf Course as required by Lease Agreement.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(acknowledge receipt).
[CA] Consideration to purchase 10 Motorola APX6500 mobile radios for the Cheyenne Police
Department from Absolute Solutions, Chey enne, Wy oming ( Homeland Sec urity funds) --
referred to Finance Committee.
Re-appointment of Jane M. France to the Community Action of Laramie County, Inc.
Board of Directors.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did
not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, August 26, 2013, at
6:00 P.M. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine
whether compliance of anne xation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist  for a
parcel of land being situated in a portion of the South Half of Section 20, Township 14 North,
Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., L aramie County, Wyoming, to be kno wn as the Te rre Pont
Annexation (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Frontier Mall Drive and Prairie
Avenue).
Announcement was made of a Public Meeting to be held Monday, August 26, 2013, at
6:00 P.M. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’ Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the
purpose of  rec eiving public comment on the submission of a 5307 Fe deral Grant t o fund
transportation services by Cheyenne Transit for Fiscal Years 2013/2014. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, August 26, 2013, at
6:00 P.M. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive
public comment regarding the intent of the City of Cheyenne to submit an application for
funding to the Wy oming B usiness Counci l’s Business Ready  Communi ty, Downtown
Development Grant Program to construct an elevated walkway over Pioneer Avenue to the Jack
R. Spiker downtown parking garage to provide access to parking for a national hotel franchise
in Cheyenne’s downtown.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 8:56 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
  
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 August 27, 2013