MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-08-26 | CLIP_ID: 391 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 391

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 August 26, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  P resent were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor,
Mr. V aldez an d M s. Willi ams.  Al so pr esent: Ca rol I ntlekofer, City  Cle rk; L ois Hu ff, Ci ty
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
Dr. Rinne moved to suspend the rules to change the order of the agenda to bring forward
agenda item #16 (Resolution determining conditions for annexation exist for Swan Ranch II) for
action prior to agenda item #8 (Ordinance regarding annexation for Swan Ranch II), seconded by
Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mr. Allen moved to suspend the rules to change the order of the agenda to bring forward
agenda item #22 (Resolution authorizing an amended and restated Development Agreement for
the “Swan R anch Development Area ”) f or ac tion prior to ag enda item #16 ( Resolution
determining conditions for annexation exist for Swan Ranch II), seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the g overning body with the exception of Mr. B rown
voting “no”.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the governing body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two othe r members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to
support received by Dr. Rinne and Mr. Allen, agenda items #22 and #30(g) were removed from
the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by Ms. Broyles
and Mr. Shanor, agenda item #18 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Mr.
Allen, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Shanor and Mr. Cook, agenda item #29(b) was
removed from the Consent Ag enda.  Mr. Allen moved to appr ove remaining Consent Agenda
items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 12, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC) and vacated Council C hambers.  Mr. Valde z moved to approve pa yment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present in Council C hambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr.
Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to r eceive public comments associated with
determining whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist
for a parcel of land be ing situated in a portion of the South Half of  Section 20, Township 14
North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as the Terre
Pont Annexation (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Frontier Mall Drive and
Prairie Ave nue).  Jim Fleshe r, Planning  Service s Depa rtment, revie wed r equirements and
compliance of conditions contained in W yo. Stat. §15-1-402, including  specific information
indicating compliance with Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-402(a)(i) through (vi).  Upon inquiry  regarding
possible extension of Rue Terre, Mr. Flesher clarified no City cost estimate has yet been done
regarding an extension of the stree t.  During comments on extension of Rue Terr e for future
consideration, Rob  Ge ringer, City  En gineer, a dvised e ngineering sta ff c an w ork o n a  c ost
estimate.  Mark Butler, Inberg-Miller Engineering, firm affiliated with proposed development
of the prope rty, revie wed c ost estimates involving Rue Terre  aff iliated with the proposed
development on the property.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public meeting for the purpose of receiving public comments on
the submission of a 5307 Federal Grant to fund transportation services by Cheyenne Transit for
Fiscal Years 2013/2014.  J oe Dougherty, Transit Director, provided information on the g rant
request, which is in the amount of $1,110,189, and reviewed information contained in his memo
dated August 26  to City Council.  He stated they are requesting more in capital assistance andth
maintenance in orde r to purcha se 3 re placement buses, and r eviewed the nee d for f ederal
operating assistance, and money utilized from other funds and grants for program services.  Upon
inquiry, Mr. Dougherty provided information on the weekday and Saturday hours for fixed route
bus services, noting it was hard to find the perfect mix of weekend hours based upon available
funding.  Shawn Ajdari questioned whether alternate fuel types have been considered for vehicle
operational cost savings and related his observation of a transit program in operation in another
city and state that uses natural gas.  Mr. Dougherty advised compressed natural gas works better
at sea level vs. hig h altitudes, explaining some problems involve limited vehicle fue l storage
capacity and a longer time in which to fill tanks, and stated he would check on the program Mr.
Ajdari mentioned.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the meeting  having
been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public meeting.
 
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive public comments regarding the intent
of the City of Cheyenne to submit an application for funding to the Wyoming Business Council’s
Business Ready Community, Downtown Development Grant Program to construct an elevated
walkway over Pioneer Avenue to the Jack R. Spiker downtown parking garage to provide access
to parking for a national hotel franchise in Cheyenne’s downtown.  Cindy Schneider, Grants
Manager, advised the grant and loan request is in conjunction with a proposed Hilton hotel to be
built near Pioneer Ave. and 17  St. (across the street west of the parking structure) and that theth
hotel project will facilitate downtown economic development.  S he stated the grant request
amount would be $562,500 with a $187,500 loan and there would be no out of pocket cost to the
City.  She explained the grant and loan will fund construction of the walkway that will be owned
by the City and leased to the hotel. Anja Bendel, Director of Business Development, Cheyenne
LEADS, reviewed public, sales tax and economic development benefits involved in the proposed
hotel project, noting hotel plans call for approximately 122 rooms and that the hotel would be
responsible for walkway operational and maintenance expenses during the term of the walkway
lease.  She advised the walkway is envisioned to extend between the parking garage and hotel
lobby/meeting rooms area and can be used by others.  James Perot McNeil commented on his
family history involving ownership and leasing of property.  Lea Bain, Larry Atwell and Shawn
Ajdari spoke in support of the application for funding, noting benefits of economic development
at no cost to taxpayers; investment in downtown; lack of downtown parking; potential for future
extension of access to the garage to benefit other downtown areas, and suggestion that a master
plan be conducted.  Upon inquiry, Brian Weinmaster, affiliated with the proposed hotel project,
advised of H ilton st andards relative to the numbe r of parking  space s that are  require d
(preliminary estimate is 120 spaces).  Dick O’Gara, Board President, Downtown Development
Authority, advised informal support for the project has been expressed through DDA Committees
and that he a nticipated formal support would be provide d at the next Boar d meeting.  Upon
inquiry regarding any potential future costs involving improvements to the garage, Mayor Kaysen
advised nothing in detail has yet been discussed in that regard.  A lso in response to inquiry,
Mayor Kaysen provided inf ormation on a pa st proposal for a  skywalk connection from the
parking structure to another building that involved a different project.  Randy Bruins, Cheyenne
LEADS, commented that the past skywalk proposal involved different grant program rules and
a different type purpose, and stated the proposed City application for grant and loan funding
through the Wyoming Business Council’s program is the first step in the process, and that it must
still be vetted by the Business Council and State Loan and Investment Boards and involves more
steps throughout the application review process.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Bruins advised the loan is
part of the grant process and that the availability of parking spaces through the elevated walkway
connectivity is a  c ritical c omponent t o th e ho tel be ing a ble to b e built unde r f ranchise
requirements.  Rob Uehran, Spirit Hospitality, verified it is a Hilton franchise requirement to
have the connectivity for parking and explained elements involved in a franchise relationship.
Upon inquiry whether there was any constitutionality issue with the City investing in this type
of funding and loan request, Dan White, City Attorney, advised research had been conducted and
the City would be acting within its statutory authority.  There being no further comments or input
and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
 RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne to enter
into an amended and restated Development Agreement with Granite Peak Development, LP,
Clear Creek Land Company, LLC, and Swan Ranch, LLC to define the rights and obligations of
the parties relating to the annexation and future economic development of the land generally
described as the “Swan Ranch Development Area”.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by
Mr. Valdez.  Upo n inquiry, Matt Ashby , Planning Ser vices Director, advised the ag reement
provides for an option by the City to purchase land for a fire station but if the pump station is
paid for from grant funds, then the developer would be willing to donate the land.  He stated he
was not aware of any funding yet set aside to build and staff the station.  Comment was made
regarding any interest in the “downtown hole”  by the deve loper of this prope rty, and it was
advised the current developer was perhaps looking for more acreage with industrial-type uses.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms.
Williams voting “no”. (#5520)
 RESOLUTION - Determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-
1-402 exist for a par cel of  land being  situated in portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23, 27,
Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known
as the Swan Ranch II Annexation (located northwest of the intersection of Clear Creek Parkway
and Tundra Drive) (Postponed from 08/12/13).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr.
Rinne moved to adopt, seconde d by  Mr. Allen.  Questions followed re garding emer gency
response fire se rvices for the c hemical plant loca ted in the ar ea; Roll ing Hills residential
subdivision, Walmart Distribution Center and NCAR.  In response, Chief James Martin, Fire and
Rescue Department, stated the areas are all served by Laramie County Fire Districts and that the
City responds only if they are called upon for mutual aid assistance.  Upon inquiry  regarding
anticipated c osts associated with build ing a new fire station, Chief Mar tin advised the
approximate cost may be  4-5 million dollars.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body with the exception of Mr. Brown and Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#5515)
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land be ing
situated in portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23, 27, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known a s the Swan Ranch I I Annexation (located
northwest of the  intersec tion of Clear Cre ek Parkw ay and Tundra  Drive)  (Postponed from
08/12/13).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.
Discussion topics included: Annexation providing City growth and benefits; vision for growth,
and concern with reduced property and sales tax revenue base affiliated with industrial uses vs
retail or residential uses.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#3994)
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of Title 8, Health and Safety, Chapter 8.44,
Solid Waste, of the Cheyenne City Code, pertaining to the general provisions of the Solid Waste
Code.  Pr oviding comments on the ordinance topic were: Phil Herrick, downtown business
property owner; Joan Ghani, General Manager, Frontier Mall and Frontier Square; Dick O’Gara,
Board President, Dow ntown Deve lopment Authority; L ea B ain, business consultant; Sam
Galeotos, do wntown p roperty ow ner; a nd Jef f T ray, A spen Re al E state, o wner o f b usiness
property involving tenants.  Topics discussed included:  Current rate structure and financial effect
on small business property owners and tenants; negative effect of proposed ordinance on owners
of larger properties involving multiple business tenants housed in one commercial building;
responsibility of property owners for retail tenants’ solid waste charges; rate inequities; proposed
ordinance benefitting small businesses; current rate structure being unfavorable to those trying
to bring businesses to the downtown area; rates for those operating businesses out of their homes
vs. commercial districts; waste amount and containers vs. dumpsters; uniform enforcement, and
support for r ecycling, composting a nd “pay as you throw” programs.  Reporting  for F inance
Committee, Mr. Brown advised there was no recommendation from the Committee on the item.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve on third and f inal reading, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Discussion
topics included: Rate inequities; effect of proposed ordinance on mall and strip-mall properties;
pending independent study of sanitation rate structure, and definition of “building” and wording
in current City code.  Upon inquiry regarding clarification of current code regarding buildings
in which one or more businesses operate, Dan White, City Attorney, read current language of
Section 8.44.010 (D) of City code as follows: “It is assumed that each residence and business in
the city produces solid waste.  Therefore, each residence and business must subscribe to and pay
for city solid waste services.  An owner(s) may terminate solid waste services if the residence or
business is vacant, unused, or there have been changes made which affect the use or occupancy
of the property, by filing a written request with the solid waste division to terminate, suspend, or
change services. An affidavit form is available at the transfer station. This form when signed and
notarized, will meet this requireme nt. Adjustments will be made upon receipt of a completed
form by the solid waste division. Owner(s) must also notify the solid waste division immediately
of any changes to the property after the affidavit is signed. If notification is not made, the solid
waste division is authorized, at its discretion, to charge for the entire period back to the change
date specified in the original affidavit. Customers bear the burden to ensure correct billing for
services provided. Warranted adjustments for past billing errors will be limited to no more than
sixty (60) days from customer’s notification of the error to the solid waste division.”  Comments
followed on interpretation of proposed ordinance language relative to charges for services for
buildings with numerous businesses; concern with ordinance effect pertaining to lost revenue
(estimated $166,000 during c urrent fiscal year; $325,000 for following  year) and options for
consideration in recouping lost revenue (ex: rate increases, reduced services); rate structure being
a long standing issue, and opportunity to further review/revise ordinance provisions based upon
results of the rate study.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend Section 2 of the proposed ordinance by
striking the words “against the owner(s)” in the 3  sentence contained in Section 8.44.010 (D),rd
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Speaking in favor of the amendment were:  Ms. Ghani, Mr. Herrick,
Mr. Galeotos and Ms. Ba in.  J im Elias, Publ ic Works Director, expressed concern that the
proposed amendment would make the ordinance almost unenforceable for fee collection purposes
as it would not be clear who would ultimately be responsible for the bill.  Mr. Tray suggested the
dumpster could be removed for non-payment.  Discussion included comments in support as well
as non-support of  the proposed am endment and intent of the ame ndment with reg ard to fe e
assessment vs. payment of bill responsibility.  Upon inquiry concerning sending a bill “to the
building” per other proposed wording in Section D, Mr. White advised Section E of current City
code perhaps addresses the matter and read the following wording from existing Section E: “...
Charges for the collection of garbage and refuse must be paid by the owner or occupant of every
premise(s) from which garbage and refuse is collected.”  Mr. White further advised that sanitation
fees have to be charged against someone -- a person or legal entity who can make payment, not
a building.  Further comments followed on discretionary authority provided public works staff
in determining who to bill, and that the ordina nce proposes no cha nge to Section E.  Upon
request, Mr.  White read exis ting Sec tion E in it s entirety  as follows:  “...Char ges for  the
collection of garbage and refuse must be paid by the owner or occupant of every premise(s) from
which garbage and refuse is collected.  These charges will be included in water and sewer bills
issued by the Board of Public Utilities.”  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” - Mr. Allen, Mr.
Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown Ms.
Broyles, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Discussion followed and included the following topics:
Ordinance change effect “for a few”;  forthcoming overall sanitation rate study results; unknown
and potential City budget costs involving fire arbitration and employee salary study relative to
loss of sanitation revenue; timing of the ordinance as a current issue to change fee assessments
to be based upon a per dumpster and pickup basis and addressing other topics later, and invoicing
for services.  Upon inquiry , Mr. White advised it is som ewhat difficult to predict all of the
resulting implications that mi ght occur with respec t to the ordinance , and re iterated wording
contained in Section E regarding charges for collection, commenting that bills will still be sent
to owners or occupants of premises in the City but this is a complicated issue.  Co mments
followed on the effective da te of the or dinance (i.e. January  1, 2014); possible ordinance
change(s) by the effective date if receipt of the pending solid waste study is completed by the end
of the year, and waiting for study results before acting on the proposed ordinance.  Upon inquiry
by Mayor Kaysen to members of the governing body and there being no objection voiced, Mayor
Kaysen raised a question regarding wording of Section E (current city code) relative to the phrase
“owner or occupant” and the scenario of whether the City could collect for sanitation charges
from a pr operty owner if a lesse e of the  property owner, who has re sponsibility for pa yment
through agreement with the owner, failed to make payment, and requested Mr. White provide a
legal interpretation.  Mr. White responded that it appears under the ordinance the City could
collect from the owner if the occupant, for whatever reason, refused to pay or did not pay.
Motion to approve as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr.
Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne and
Mayor Kaysen. (#3995)
Following a ten minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:15 pm. 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendme nt, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom MU B Mixe d-Use B usiness
Emphasis to P Public for a portion of Lot 1, Block 2, and ½ of vacated Vosler Place, Plaza Del
Range, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest cor ner of the intersec tion of Sheridan
Street and Ridg e Road).  D r. Rinne moved to appr ove on sec ond reading, seconded by Mr.
Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendm ent, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, chang ing t he z oning c lassification fr om A-1 Ag ricultural a nd Rural
Residential (County) to MUR Mixed-Use Residential  Emphasis for Snyder Plaza, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Snyder Avenue, north of W. Allison Road).  Dr. Rinne
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Comments followed reg arding
potential retail business activities at the site; neig hborhood notification re quirements of the
proposed zone change; traffic and safety concerns; zone change requirements, and whether a site
plan, in conjunction with a re lated pre liminary plat item on  the meeting ag enda, ha d been
submitted.  In response to inquiry during comments, Brett Walker, Development Office, advised
a site plan had not yet been submitted and isn’t normally received as part of a zone change
procedure, and Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, clarified land annexed into the City
sometimes retains its county zone type until the property is developed.  Shawn Ajdari, owner and
developer of the property, verified the requested zone change is t o MUR which has specific
requirements on what types of development can be placed upon the property.  Brad Emmons,
AVI Engineering, agent for the applicant, reviewed development types, including applicable
architectural desi gn standards, a llowed within a MUR zone and pursuant to the Unif ied
Development Code (UDC), and stated a full architectural design will not begin until the zone
type is confirmed.  Continuing discussion included the following topics: Whether the zone
change type was appropriate for the ar ea; notification radius require ments; traffic study and
traffic volume in the vicinity ; uses by  right for a MU R z one pursuant to ad ministrative or
conditional use review; letter received from area resident, and proposed use of property.  During
discussion, Mr. Ashby provided information on the process utilized in reviewing uses by right
for a MUR zone pursuant to provisions of Article 2 of the UDC; Mr. Emmons advised the
developer is looking at providing small neighborhood-type business services, and Mr. Walker
confirmed an error with a map coordinate connected with the preliminary plat as well as a
corrected legal description will be provided throug h the final plat proc ess.  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting
“no”.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom A-1 and  MU  (C ounty) t o CB
Community Business for a parcel of land situated in a portion of the South Half of Section 20,
T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Terre
Pont ( located a t th e no rtheast co rner of the int ersection o f Frontier M all D rive a nd Pr airie
Avenue).  Dr. Rinne move d to approve  on second r eading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - A mending, cre ating, deleting  and re -creating various cha pters and
sections within Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Cheyenne City Code relating to
General Provisions, and including Adoption of the International Building Code and other Related
Codes, 2012 Edition; The National Electrical Code, 2011 Edition; and the International Energy
Conservation Code, 2009 Edition.  Joe Patterson, Joe Patterson Construction, advised he has
served on several Building Code Review Committees and commented on the 2009 International
Energy Conservation Code (I ECC), indicating that version wa s more consistent with cur rent
practices and provides more options for builder s.  Dick O’Gara, Board President, Downtown
Development Authority, stated the Board has not formally endorsed the proposed codes, citing
DDA’s interest in codes benefitting historic and existing downtown buildings, and requested the
ordinance be postponed to allow the Board time to receive additional information.  Speaking in
favor of the ordinance were Randy Byers, local architect and member of Code R eview
Committee; Brian Casey, owner, Mister.B’s Heating and Cooling, and member of Code Review
Committee, and Delmar Stone.  Their comments included support for the IECC as a means to
protect the safety and welfare of residents by setting a minimum standard and helping reduce
energy consumption; Code Review Committee membership composition and its role in reviewing
and recommending proposed codes; benefits and components of the proposed 2009 IECC edition
vs. 2012 edition; need to update the codes, and opposition to postponement.  Dr. Rinne moved
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Dr. Rinne moved to divide the question
to allow for separate discussion and vote on the International Energy Conservation Code, 2009
Edition, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles,
Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne, Mr.
Shanor and Mayor Kaysen.  Following comments on the IECC, Mr. Shanor moved to postpone
consideration of the 2009 I ECC to S eptember 9, 2013, seconde d by Mr. L una.  Discussion
followed on the purpose of postponement; possibility of holding a City Council work session to
receive further staff information, and whether postponement was needed as the ordinance was
on 2 , not 3 ,  reading.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr.nd rd
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Dr.
Rinne, and Mayor Kaysen.   M ain motion, as divided, to approve the IECC, 2009 Edition,
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Luna and
Mr. Shanor voting “no”.  Comments followed in support of scheduling a Council work session
on the ordinance topic.  Main motion, as divided, to approve the remaining codes enumerated in
the ordinance carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of
Mr. Shanor voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City  of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being
situated in a portion of Section 20, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wy oming, to be know n as the Te rre Pont annexation (locate d northea st of the
intersection of Frontier Mall Drive and Prairie Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Chey enne U nified
Development Code, amending the landscaping requirements under Unified Development Code
Sections 6.3.4a, 6.3.4b, and 6.3.7e - - referred to Public Service s Committee (sponsors -- Mr.
Allen, Mr. Cook, Mr. Shanor).
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Teton
Business Park, a replat of Lots 1 thru 4, inclusive, Block One, Classic Subdivision, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Westland and Old Happy Jack
Roads) (postponed from 08/12/13).  Dr. Rinn e moved to adopt, seconded by  Mr. Allen.  Dr .
Rinne moved to postpone to September 9, 2013, sec onded by Ms. Broyles.  I t was advised
postponement is at th e developer’s request to allow for r eview of soil testing re sults.  Upon
inquiry, Brett Walker, Development Office, clarified the testing is for structural reasons.  Motion
to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Swan
Ranch Rail Park, Eighth Filing, a Replat of Swan Ranch Rail Park, Sixth Filing, and portions of
Sections 14, 15, 22, 23 and 27, T.13N., R.67W., 6th P .M., Chey enne, Wy oming ( located
northwest of the intersection of Tundr a and Clear Creek Parkway) (postponed from Aug. 12,
2013).  Scott Sutherland, Granite Peak Development, expressed appreciation to City staff and
Council members for their efforts and support involving the development area.  Dr. Rinne moved
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body. (#5516)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5517)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat
for De erhaven Subdivision, 2  Filing , a re plat of L ot 1, Block 2, Dee rhaven Subdivis ion,nd
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Montalto Drive
and E. Fox Farm Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5518)
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  fi ling of  a n a pplication w ith the  F ederal T ransit
Administration, and Operating Administration of the United States Department of Transportation,
for Federal Transportation Assistance Authorized by Title 49, United States Code, Section 5307.
Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body. (#5519)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an Application to the Wyoming Business
Council, Business Ready  Communi ty Gra nt and L oan Program for  funding  throug h the
Downtown Development Grant and Loan Program for an elevated walkway.  Dale Steenbergen,
Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, spoke in support of the project, noting potential economic
development for the downtown corridor.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Comment followed in support of the walkway project.  M otion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. (#5521)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing submission of a Miner al Royalty Capital Construction
Account Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the
Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne to assist in financing the Logan Avenue Sanitary Sewer
Rehabilitation Project - Nationway to East Pershing Boulevard.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5522)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-
1-402 exist for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of Section 20, Township 14 North,
Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be know n as the Te rre Pont
annexation (located northeast of the intersection of Frontier Mall Drive and Prairie Avenue) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Sanitary Sewer Service, by Outside User Sanitary Sewer
Services A greement, f or S cott J ohnson, T ract 4 , M ountain V iew Homes, Laramie C ounty,
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Valdez). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment Board for a $1 Million loan from the State Revolving fund for funding the Recycle
Water System Extension Project and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and the Director of the
Board of Public Utilities to sign all loan documents -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Brown).
RESOLUTION - Endorsing a study of the costs of new development for future policy
decisions r egarding re lative pu blic a nd pr ivate re sponsibilities f or c apital in vestments
necessitated by development – referred to Finance Committee (sponsors – Dr. Rinne and Mayor
Kaysen).  Mr. B rown advised the item was discusse d under other items for the agenda at the
August 19  Finance Committee meeting, and provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.th
Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director,
noted the study concept had been associated with provisions attached to a recent development
action and tha t members of t he governing body had expressed tha t the study would be more
appropriately addre ssed i ndependently rathe r than a ttaching it to one specific de velopment
project.  He noted the resolution will involve issuance of a request for proposals (RFP) to select
a consultant to provide information related to community growth issues.  Questions were raised
on the possib ility of forming a committee to assist in oversee ing the study’s progress, study
funding source, and whether a provision could be contained in the contract for services to provide
for a timely reporting process that include s City Council members.  I n response, Mr. Ashby
advised this type of study generally could involve a steering committee to help guide the project
and that the Council and e xecutive administration could de termine committee composition.
Upon inquiry, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, advised once there was a contract or RFP done to
determine the amount nee ded, options for funding  the study could be pr esented.  Fur ther
comment f ollowed o n p urpose of  the  stu dy a nd su pport f or stu dy c omponents to b e “ all
inclusive” relative to all areas involving development costs, including the Board o f Pub lic
Utilities.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all member of the governing body with the exception
of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#5523) 
Preliminary Plat for Snyder Plaza, a replat of a portion of Blocks 80 and 81, formerly
known as I nterior Heights Addition, now vac ated, being a portion of the NE¼ of Section 7,
T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Snyder Avenue,
north of W. Allison Road).  Dr. Rinne moved to acknowledge receipt with staff recommendation
#1, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry concerning traffic impact if property development
results in a higher traffic volume than anticipated, Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for the applicant,
advised with the preparation of the final plat the traffic study would be reviewed and if there were
certain proposed uses that may have a higher value affecting the previous study, the study would
have to be updated.  He provided information on elements included in the traffic study that had
been prepared, which anticipated a higher use, and levels of service for vicinity roadways.  In
response to comments on traffic volume; safety concerns; request for further review of the traffic
study area, especially on West Jefferson and Snyder Avenues, and access points, Mr. Emmons
indicated he would further review the area; stated South High and Johnson Junior High Schools
were calculated as part of the study, and provided information on access and ingress/egress
locations.  Comment of conce rn followed on pote ntial business types that may locate on the
property, access, traffic flow, and safety.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.
Preliminary Plat for Ter re Pont, a port ion of the South Half of  Section 20, T.14N.,
R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection
of Frontier Mall Drive and Prairie Avenue).  Dr. Rinne moved to acknowledge receipt, seconded
by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Lease Agreement between City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and the
Wyoming D epartment o f E nvironmental Q uality f or a ir m onitoring/quality i n t he N orth
Cheyenne Community Park (revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6048)
[CA] Agreement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Stri de L earning Ce nter to provide
cooperative transit services (revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6049)
[CA] Contract be tween th e City  of  Chey enne, Yo uth Al ternatives, a nd L aramie Cou nty
Community Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth
at Johnson Junior High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Eight Grantst
funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6050)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie
County, Wyoming, f or juvenile proba tion services.  Motion (pe r Consent  Agenda) ca rried.
(#6051)
Lease Agreement between City of Chey enne, Information Technology Division, and
Xerox by Xerox Agent XESI for a high volume production black and white copier.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone to September 9, 2013,
seconded by Ms. Broyles.  It was advised postponement is at staff’s request to allow time to
receive an additional addendum to the contract.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.
[CA] Consideration of FAA Grant #3-56-0005-49 between the City of Cheyenne, County of
Laramie, and the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000.00
for the Rehabilitation of Runways 9/27 and 13/31 (rubber removal and  paint), Rehabilitation of
taxiways (paint), and the Rehabilitation of the lig hting control system.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6052)
Agreement between Owner and Architect, Standard Form of Architect's Services, and
Exhibit A (AI A Documents B102-2007 a nd B201-2007) between the City of Chey enne and
Pappas & Pappas Architects, P.C., for design and construction contract administration services
for the new Cheyenne Public Safety Center, 17th and Pioneer, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve in the amount of $1,700,000.00, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved
to amend by  substitut e, sec onded by  Dr. Ri nne.  Da n Whit e, City  Attorney , revie wed
modifications contained in the substitute, noting these were minor changes made for clarification
and for some provisions to be more in line with City processes.  Motion to amend by substitute
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended  carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#6053)
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan
Planning Organization, and A.V.I. p.c., for Division Avenue Corridor/Wallick Road Preliminary
Design Plan (Metropolitan Planning  Organization funds).  Mr. B rown reported there was no
recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr . Brown moved to appr ove in an
amount not to exceed $59,857.33, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body. (#6054)
[CA] Consideration of FAA Grant #3-56-0005-50 between the City of Cheyenne, County of
Laramie, and the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in an amount not to exceed $300,000.00 for
the creation of a Sustainable Management Plan -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Memorandum of Understanding (Contract No. 5991) to increase the
payment amount between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Laramie County, Wyoming,
to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College, City/County
Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to the City -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-4-1 4 for furnishing and installing miscellane ous police car
equipment for the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, from  L.A.W.S. of Englewood, Colorado
(2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, State Land and Investment Board).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $86,443.14).
[CA] Consideration o f Bid #M-3-14 for  a contr act be tween the  City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and J TL Group I nc., d/b/a Knife  River, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the
Campstool Road Overlay Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $1,203,089.20). (#6055)
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-3-14 for f urnishing bulk ice control produc t to the Cit y of
Cheyenne, Public Works Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (accept bid from Desert Mountain Corp, Riverton, WY; $116.38/ton)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-1-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Department, and Caylor & Genz Earthmovers, Inc., Torrington, Wyoming, for the
Lake Minnehaha Remediation Plan, Phase I Project (State & Local Grants).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $983,874.39). (#6056)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-2-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks &
Recreation Department, and Reiman Corporation and Subsidiary, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the
Renovation and Expansion of the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Phase I - Roads Project (1% Specific
Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x).  Motion ( per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$345,127.85). (#6057)
[CA] Consideration to purchase 10 Motorola APX6500 mobile radios for the Cheyenne Police
Department from Absolute Solutions, Cheyenne, Wyoming (Homeland Security funds).  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $39,662.50).
Announcement w as ma de of  the  Ap pointment of  Ma tt Po pe to t he B oard of  Pub lic
Utilities, to be confirmed September 9, 2013.
Announcement was made that due to the Labor Day holiday on Monday, September 2,
2013,  regularly scheduled City Council Committee Meetings will instead be held in the Municipal
Building, Room 122, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee
will meet Tuesday, September 3, 2013 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet
Wednesday, September 4, 2013 at Noon.
There being no further  business to come before the g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 9:36 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 September 9, 2013