MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-09-09 | CLIP_ID: 393 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 393

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 September 9, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  P resent were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor,
Mr. V aldez an d M s. Willi ams.  Al so pr esent: Ca rol I ntlekofer, City  Cle rk; L ois Hu ff, Ci ty
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
Mr. Allen moved to suspend the rules to change the order of the agenda to bring forward
agenda item #16 (Resolution determining conditions for anne xation exist for Te rre Pont) for
action immediately prior to agenda item #11 (Ordinance regarding annexation for Terre Pont),
seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the governing body and will be e nacted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two other members is re ceived.  Any  item removed f rom the Consent Ag enda w ill be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.).  Mr. Allen moved to approve, seconded by Mr.
Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 26, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HV AC) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr.
Brown returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Am endment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom MU B Mixe d-Use B usiness
Emphasis to P Public for a portion of Lot 1, Block 2, and ½ of vacated Vosler Place, Plaza Del
Range, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest cor ner of the intersec tion of Sheridan
Street and Ridge Road).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body. (#3996)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5 .1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, chang ing the  zoning classific ation from  A-1 Agr icultural and Rura l
Residential (County) to MUR Mixed-Use Residential  Emphasis for Snyder Plaza, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located east of and a djacent to Snyder Avenue, north of W. Alli son Road).  Brad
Emmons, A.V.I. Engineering, agent for the applicant, advised they would like to postpone the
item for two weeks to allow for additional public notification and comment, and to hold a public
open house.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.
Mr. Allen moved to postpone for  two wee ks (to Sept. 23, 2013), second ed by Mr. Shanor.
Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5 .1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom A -1 and MU  (C ounty) t o CB
Community Business for a parcel of land situated in a portion of the South Half of Section 20,
T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Terre
Pont ( located a t th e no rtheast c orner o f t he int ersection of Frontier M all D rive a nd Pr airie
Avenue).  Mr. Allen move d to approve  on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#3997)
ORDINANCE - A mending, cre ating, deleting  and re -creating various c hapters and
sections within Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Cheyenne City Code relating to
General Provisions, and including Adoption of the International Building Code and other Related
Codes, 2012 Edition; The National Electrical Code, 2011 Edition; and the International Energy
Conservation Code, 2009 Edition.  M r. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Allen moved to amend Section 11 to read as follows:  “This
ordinance shall be in full for ce and effect upon approval and publication, but not sooner than
November 1, 2013", se conded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry  by Paul Frauendienst regarding
purpose of the amendme nt, it was advised that the e ffective date of Nove mber 1  had bee nst
inadvertently excluded from the ordinance.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “ yes” --  a ll
members of the governing body.  D iscussion followed on Section 15.08.020, Amendments,
paragraph B. pertaining to deleting and re-creating Section 102.4.1 wording and which code, the
International Building Code (IBC) or International Fire Code (IFC), would prevail if a conflict
occurred be tween the  two codes.  B ruce Wilson, Chief B uilding Of ficial, ve rified the
International Energy Conservation Code would not be excluded in the proposed change as it is
included in the I BC, and tha t intent of the wording is to clear up a ny conflict with fire  and
building codes.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, explained they wanted to make sure
that the fire code would stand alone as a maintenance code; whereas the building code applies
to new construction, remodels and alterations.  He stated the change will ensure that the IBC
would only supercede if  the re was a  c onflict, a nd, if  the re was a  c onflict, h e a dvised th at,
generally speaking, then the fire  code of ficial, building code of ficial and the prope rty owner
would discuss the matter to work out any areas involved in the conflict.  Upon further inquiry,
Mr. White advised the proposed wording does represent a City policy change.  Further discussion
followed on interaction between fire and building codes.  Upon inquiry, Chief Jim Martin, Fire
and Rescue Department, advised the propose d change was drawn up by  the Fir e Prevention
Division and that, in the past, if there was a conflict between the codes staff attempted to work
out the differences.  Mr. Shanor moved to strike paragraph B. listed under Section 2., 15.08.020,
Amendments, so that the language from the IBC 2012 code (i.e. Section 102.4.1) would remain
unchanged, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Discussion followed on the current policy if conflicts arose
between the IBC and IFC; objectivity; forthcoming ordinance to update the IFC, and whether
other Wyoming communities had made a  simil ar change as pr oposed in para graph B.  Mr.
Wilson, upon inquiry, advised he wasn’t aware of other communities in Wyoming making a
similar amendment to the IBC code, and stated for clarification that during the building permit
process that would be the ruling process but after completion of the building the fire code, which
is a maintenance document,  will be in effect.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. B rown, Ms. B royles and May or
Kaysen voting “no”.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#3998)
RESOLUTION - Determining that conditions for annexation required by Wyo. Stat. §15-
1-402 exist for a parcel of land being situated in a portion of Section 20, Township 14 North,
Range 66 West of the 6th P .M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be know n as the Te rre Pont
annexation (located northeast of the intersection of Frontier Mall Drive and Prairie Avenue).  Mr.
Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body. (#5524)
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the C ity of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land be ing
situated in a portion of Section 20, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming, to be known as the Terre Pont annexation (located northeast of the
intersection of Frontier Mall Drive and Prairie Avenue).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Chey enne U nified
Development Code, amending the landscaping requirements under Unified Development Code
Sections 6.3.4a, 6 .3.4b, and 6.3.7e.  B randon Cammarata, Planning and Development office,
explained staff prepared a development report on the proposed change, which pertains to a text
amendment to re duce landscaping requirements, and provided a  brief history on landsca ping
provisions that have been in place since 1992.  Commenting on the proposed ordinance were:
Jan Nelson-Schroll; Mark Madsen; Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group; Barbara Brennan,
Harmony Hearth and Home; Brian Tyrrell; M. Lee Hasenauer, Laramie County Commissioner;
Nancy Loomis; Patrice Gapen; Major Dorr; Jean Vetter and Albert Simpson.  Comments were
made in s upport as well as non-support of the ordinance and included the following topics:
Community impact concerns if amount of landscaping currently required was reduced; effecting
a cha nge for  a small g roup of pe ople (i.e. small businesses) ; support for p roviding more
flexibility and better solutions; economic, social and property value benefits involving trees and
landscaping; reducing landscaping requirements to support wise water use; Unified Development
Code (UDC) requirements and financial effect on small businesses; applying for variances;
allowing business owners to ha ve more  of a de cision; Chey enne a s an urba n landsca pe
environment and implementing more conservation, irrigation and alternative measures to reduce
water run-off; concerns with treating new (big) development the same as small business, multi-
use or non-residential properties; uniform application of the UDC; difficulty of growing trees in
Cheyenne’s environment and saf ely maintaining la rger tre es; sug gestion that the term
“redevelopment” be defined; concern with reducing landscaping requirements “across the board”;
support for small businesses, and reducing the landscaping amount to reduce high water uses.
Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Comment followed
on new development vs. redevelopment.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by adding a sentence to
Section 10 which would immediately precede the current sentence that starts with “ ... That the
City Planning Office is ...”; said sentence to read “The amendments contained in Sections 6, 7,
8 and 9 herein are only applicable to UDC Section 6.3.2 (b), (c) and (d), the rest of 6.3.2 remains
unaltered.”.  Motion was seconded by Mr. Allen.  It was noted the proposed amendment would
focus only on re- development.  Ms. Ve tter questioned whether 6.3.2 (d)  would prese nt any
drainage run-off concerns for engineering with Rob Geringer, City Engineer, advising he would
need to review further.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mr. B rown, Ms. Bro yles and Ma yor Kaysen voting “no”.  U pon
inquiry Ms. Brennan provided information regarding redevelopment of the site where they have
relocated their business and explained, even with a reduction to the amount of required trees,
sidewalk and pavement would still have to be removed.  Discussion topics included: UDC review
and amendment process, “quick fixes” and other amendments; business owner responsibilities;
Planning Commission involvement in amendments; whether the proposed ordinance will “fix”
small business owners’ concerns; landscaping requirements as compared to other similar regional
communities; landscaping (example: trees and shrubs) a s a community enhancement or non-
enhancement; redevelopment scenarios; tree point methodology and providing more flexibility,
and comments in support and non-support of the pr oposed ordinance.  Upon inquiry  during
discussion, Mr. Cammarata provided information on the UDC annua l review process, noting
there were a number of topics to manage and prioritize during this first annual review.  He stated
the priority was to get the “quick fixes” done; then the few items dealing with in-fill, and work
on proposals to take to the Pl anning Commission for review and recommendations to then
present to the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” - all members
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles and Mayor Kaysen.
ORDINANCE - Amending the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), to allow,
after conditional discretionary review, Service Uses, Animal Care - Hospital/Clinic in the MUB
Mixed-Use Business Emphasis and the NB Neighborhood Business zone districts and to allow,
as a use permitted by right, Service Uses, Animal Care - Kennel in the LI Light Industrial zone
district -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendmen t, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from NB Neighborhood Business to MR-
2 Medium Density Residential - Developing for Lots 15 and 16, Block 17, Crest Ridge, 4  Filing,th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Storey Boulevard, between Canyon and
Ridge Roads) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Teton
Business Park, a replat of Lots 1 thru 4, inclusive, Block One, Classic Subdivision, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Westland and Old Happy Jack
Roads) (postponed from 08/26/13).  Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr.
Allen moved to postpone for two weeks (to Sept. 23, 2013), seconded by Mr. Shanor.  It was
noted th at po stponement i s to  a llow f or a dditional ti me to r eview soil testing.  M otion to
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Sanitary Sewer Service, by Outside User Sanitary Sewer
Services A greement, for Scott J ohnson, T ract 4 , M ountain V iew H omes, Laramie C ounty,
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5525) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment Board for a $1 Million loan from the State Revolving fund for funding the Recycle
Water System Extension Project and authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and the Director of the
Board of Public Utilities to si gn all loan documents.  M otion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5526)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed
on the Secure Fencing County project to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board
for the Biennial FY13/14 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding in the amount of $40,000
to replace the ADA paving SLIB Consensus project -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed
on the Sheriff Canine Training Facility Waterline County project to be submitted to the State
Loan and I nvestment Board for the B iennial FY13/14 Countywide Consensus B lock Grant
funding in the amount of $17,200 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
Lease Agreement between City of Chey enne, Information Technology Division, and
Xerox by Xerox Agent XESI for a high volume production black and white copier (postponed
from Aug. 26, 2013).  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved
to amend by substitute, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  It was noted the proposed substitute changes
the equipment installation d ate and a dds a sec ond addendum a ddressing time frame s for
maintenance response.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body.  Main motion as am ended by substitute carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body. (#6061)
[CA] Consideration of FAA Grant #3-56-0005-50 between the City of Cheyenne, County of
Laramie, and the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in an amount not to exceed $300,000.00 for
the creation of a Sustainable Management Plan.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6062)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Cheyenne
Capitals Youth Hockey Association, for 2013 - 2014 youth hockey season at the City- owned Ice
and Events Center -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie
County School District No. 1 to provide services for students with disabilities for the 2013 - 2014
school year -- referred to Finance Committee.    
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie
County School District No. 1 to provide services for general education students for the 2013 -
2014 school year -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Professional Servic es Agreement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Be nchMark
Engineers, P.C. for the Christensen Railroad Overpass and Corridor Project (1% Specific Purpose
Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Memorandum of Understanding (Contract No. 5991) to increase
the payment amount between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Laramie County,
Wyoming, to provide  public transporta tion services to L aramie County Community College,
City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to the City.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5991)
[CA] Amendment  No. 1 to City Contract No. 5874 and State Lease Agreement No. 8-09466
between the City of Cheyenne and State of Wyoming, Department of Administration and
Information, Construction Management, for rental of parking spaces located at the Cox Parking
Structure -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-5-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and L.E.R., Inc., d/b/a Renner, Denver, Colorado, for the Martin Luther
King Jr. Tennis Court project (State & Local grants; private donations) -- referred to Finance
Committee.   
Appointment of Matt Pope to the Board of Public Utilities.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the City Council with
the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.  Mayor Kaysen did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Tricia S. Crilly to the Cheyenne Housing
Authority Board to be confirmed September 23, 2013. 
Under other business, comment was expressed that anyone in the community wishing to
provide input on the landscaping ordinance discussed earlier in the meeting could contact City
Council members.  Succe ss of Fr eedom’s Edge Brewery event he ld over the w eekend that
monetarily benefitted local non-profit organizations was noted.
There being no further business to come b efore the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 8:24 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 September 19, 2013