MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-09-23 | CLIP_ID: 395 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 395

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 September 23, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  P resent were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez
and Ms. Williams.  Absent: Mr. Allen.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by the governing body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two  other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr.
Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 9, 2013.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Valdez moved to approve  payment of vouche rs as pre sented, sec onded by Mr.
Shanor.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to Concrete Specialists, Rick Parish, Parks
and Recreation Director, advised services by the contractor involved Greenway path repairs and
provided information on the annual Greenway maintenance assessment and repair program.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, S ection 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from A- 1 Ag ricultural a nd Rural
Residential (County) to MUR Mixed-Use Residential  Emphasis for Snyder Plaza, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Snyder Avenue, north of W. Allison Road) (postponed
from Sept. 9, 2013).  Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development Office, advised a petition
opposing the zone change had been signed by neighbors in the vicinity and submitted on this
date.  He stated, pursuant to Uniform Development Code (UDC) requirements, the signatures
must be verified and recommended postponement of the item to the October 14  City Councilth
meeting to allow time for verification.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor
advised there was no recommendation on the item from Committee.  M r. Shanor moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Shanor moved to postpone to
October 14, 2013, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Ms. Williams noted that she had submitted the protest
petition to the Ci ty Clerk, and e xpressed appre ciation to the developer  and ag ent for
communication efforts with the neighborhood.  Upon inquiry regarding the petition process, Dan
White, City Attorney, recited wording contained in Wyo. Stat. Section 15-1-603 and stated it
would need to be determined whether the petition met statutory requirements and, if so, then it
would require a minimum of eight affirmative votes by members of the governing body for the
ordinance to pass on fina l reading rather than the usual six vot es.  Upon fur ther inquiry, Mr.
White stated petition signers must be owners of property within a designated area in order to be
counted, a nd revie wed generally what the ve rification process would e ntail.  Upon inquiry
regarding whether notification to additional prope rty owners that had re cently occurred was
invalid relative to the Planning Commission process, Mr. White advised he would like time to
review what ha d been be fore the Planning Commission as well as state statute and UDC
provisions in order to respond to the inquiry.  Mr. White further clarified there did not seem to
be a time limit in which petition signatures could be submitted but that the UDC states a protest
petition should be filed in sufficient time for City staff to verify the petition.  Motion to postpone
carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Un der other business,
Amber Ash, Ward I constituent, spoke in support of the ordinance and proposed development
plans for the site.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land be ing
situated in a portion of Section 20, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wy oming, to be  known as t he Te rre Pont annexation (located northea st of the
intersection of Frontier Mall Drive and Prairie Avenue).  Mr. Shanor  moved to approve on third
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present. (#3999)
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Sections  1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the  Chey enne U nified
Development Code, amending the landscaping requirements under Unified Development Code
Sections 6.3.4a, 6.3.4b, and 6.3.7e .  Commenting on the proposed ordinance were: Lea Bain,
John Volk, Dave  Teubne r, Na ncy L oomis, Mark Ellison and Jan Nelson-Schroll.  Topics
discussed included the following:  Comments in support as well as non-support of the ordinance;
growing and maintaining liveable trees in Cheyenne’s climate; current landscaping requirements
and modification of same which would benefit various types of property owners/developers;
financial and maintenance concerns involving landscape installation and grounds care, including
City-owned p arks, g reenway pa ths a nd de tention po nd a reas; s upport fo r comm unity
beautification efforts; community appearance as a factor in attracting and retaining businesses
and employees; taking a progressive stance regarding landscaping relative to developments and
re-developments; primary purpose of the proposed ordinance; landscaping assisting with run-off
surface w ater and conse rvation/retention measures; providing  for f lexibility reg arding
requirements fo r s mall b usinesses o r d etermining on  a case-by-case ba sis un der c ertain
conditions; wise and efficient water use; water/pollutant discharges into storm sewers and storm
water m anagement; tr ees p roviding e conomic, e nvironmental a nd e nergy e fficient be nefits;
remaining competitive with other are a communities’ landsc aping requirements; annual UDC
review process; xeriscaping, and water re-use.  In response to comments involving maintenance
of City p arks, greenways and dete ntion ponds, Ri ck Parish, Parks a nd Recreation Director,
provided information on public areas maintained by Parks and Recreation; tree survival rate, and
water re-use and use of raw (untreated) water in certain areas.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Discussion followed regarding landscaping costs
associated with development and re-development of properties, and landscaping requirements
and effect on large business vs. small business developments.  Mr. Shanor  moved to amend by
substitute ordina nce da ted September  13, 2013, seconde d by  Dr. Ri nne.  I t was noted the
proposed substitute provides clarification on the intent of an amendment that was approved at
the September 9  City Council meeting.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all membersth
of the governing body present.  Further discussion followed on the purpose of the or dinance,
which is to reduce the amount of required liveable landscaping which would financially help
small businesses; providing for flexibility; encouraging “in-fill” developments, and taking a
wider look at development issues.  Main motion as amended by substitute failed.  Voting “yes” --
Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook,
Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Amending the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), to allow,
after conditional discretionary review, Service Uses, Animal Care - Hospital/Clinic in the MUB
Mixed-Use Business Emphasis and the NB Neighborhood Business zone districts and to allow,
as a use permitted by right, Service Uses, Animal Care - Kennel in the LI Light Industrial zone
district.  L uke Meyer, representative for Black Dog Animal Rescue; Troy  Thompson, local
veterinarian; Brittany Steinman, owner of  local dog  day care and pe t hotel business, and Dr.
Tiffany Hea ley, local vete rinarian, offe red c omments i n support of the or dinance.  Topics
presented included: Accessible veterinary care services; proposed zone changes being appropriate
and providing for location options for animal care and kennel services, and minimum noise levels
generated by animal care facilities.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Mr. C ook.  Co mments f ollowed in  f avor o f th e o rdinance.  U pon in quiry c oncerning
conditional discretionar y revie w, B randon Cammar ata, Planning  and De velopment offic e,
provided information on approvals required through the Board of Adjustment for certain types
of requested uses and clarified the ordinance addresses two uses, one being veterinary clinics and
the other pertaining to uses involving kennels, which would change kennel uses now allowed
only in CB and Agricultural zones to include Light Industrial zones.  Motion carried.  V oting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from NB Neighborhood Business to MR-
2 Medium Density Residential - Developing for Lots 15 and 16, Block 17, Crest Ridge, 4  Filing,th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Storey Boulevard, between Canyon and
Ridge Roads).  Shelley Hood, adjacent property owner, spoke in opposition  to the proposed zone
change, expressing concerns with the type of development that is planned for the site (i.e. Multi-
family residential 4-plexes) and effect on the neighborhood relative to n oise and increase in
vehicle/traffic volume.  M r. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  It was noted several letters of concern and opposition had been submitted from residents
in the vicinity, and that more in-depth review by City Council regarding proposed development
plans could occur during the platting process.  Upon inquiry, Brett Walker, Development Office,
clarified the current zone classification of NB has been in place since the original subdivision was
determined in 1996 and that the sole access into the property will be off Storey Blvd.  He advised,
based upon proposed development plans, a site plan review and conditional use approval will be
needed, and a re-platting action may come before the governing body for approval.  Upon further
inquiry, Mr. Walk er provided infor mation on development desig n that would not require
approval by the governing body.  Casey Palma, Steil Surveying, agent for Leaning Tree Homes,
the applicant, advised they have been refining the site plan and are close to having it completed,
and that a neighborhood meeting is scheduled for September 27  and notice of the meeting hasth
been mailed to vicinity property owners.  Ms. H ood advised she ha d not rec eived a meeting
notice and requested the agent reschedule the meeting to allow more  notification time to the
neighborhood.  Mr. Palma stated the meeting was preliminary in nature and if the project moves
forward additional notification of meetings relative to the site plan will be provided.  Mr. Palma
was requested to submit a copy of the upcoming meeting notice to members of the g overning
body.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Palma provided information on the “radius” area used in conjunction
with notification to property owners of the proposed zone change and utilization of property
ownership and mapping data through the County Assessor’s GIS system.  Brandon Cammarata,
Planning and Development office, explained the 140 ft. radius is a minimum distance, as set forth
in the UDC, and excludes streets and alleys.  Question was raised on the number of apartment
complexes that are located within each of the City’s Wards and concern was expressed that some
complexes have resulted in higher police calls for services.  In response to the question on the
number o f a partment c omplexes, Ma yor Ka ysen advised h e wo uld dis cuss th e ma tter w ith
Planning staff.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with
the exception of Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna and Ms. Williams voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 & 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, Repealing and Re-enacting Unified De velopment Code Section 2.4.2, Annexations --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Repealing Chapter 13.20, Wastewater and Disposal, in its entirety and
re-creating Chapter 13.20, Wastewater Treatment and Disposal, of Title 13, Public Services, of
the City of Cheyenne City Code -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 9.16.070(A), sale of tobacco to persons under the age
of eighteen years prohibited, of Chapter 9.16, Offenses by or against minors, of Chapter 9, Public
Peace and Welfare, of the Cheyenne City Code, pertaining to electronic cigarettes -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Broyles).
ORDINANCE - A mending, cre ating, deleting  and re -creating various ch apters and
Sections within Titl e 8, Heal th and Safe ty, of the Chey enne City Code rela ting to g eneral
provisions pertaining to Fire Protection and Regulations, and adoption of the International Fire
Code, 2012 Edition, and certain codes  and practices promulgated by the National Fire Protection
Association -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen). 
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections contained in Chapters 8.20, 8.24, 8.28 and
8.32 within Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Cheyenne City Code relating to General Provisions
pertaining to Fire Protection and Regulations  -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor
-- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 2.32, Fire Department, Section 2.32.020, Department
Personnel, and Cha pter 2.84, Miscellaneous B oards a nd Commi ssions, S ection 2.84.050,
International Fire Code Boa rd of App eals, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of  the
Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the Fire and Rescue Department -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Teton
Business Park, a replat of Lots 1 thru 4, inclusive, Block One, Classic Subdivision, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Westland and Old Happy Jack
Roads) (postponed from 09/09/13).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5527)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed
on the Secure Fencing County project to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board
for the Biennial FY13/14 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding in the amount of $40,000
to replace the ADA paving  SLIB Consensus proje ct.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5528)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed
on the Sheriff Canine Training Facility Waterline County project to be submitted to the State
Loan and I nvestment Board for the B iennial FY13/14 Countywide Consensus B lock Grant
funding in the amount of $17,200.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5529)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Declaring as surplus a City-owned property located at 522 Van Lennen
Avenue (All of Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block 660, South Cheyenne), together with improvements
thereon, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and authorizing the City's Purchasing Director
to proceed with the bidding process for sale of said parcel pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §15-1-112 --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A mending Resolution No. 5521 and authorizing submission of an
application to the Wyoming Business Council, Business Ready  Community Grant and L oan
Program for funding through the Downtown De velopment Grant and L oan Program for a n
elevated walkway -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Cheyenne
Capitals Youth Hockey Association, for 2013 - 2014 youth hockey season at the City- owned Ice
and Events Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6063)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie
County School District No. 1 to provide services for students with disabilities for the 2013 - 2014
school year.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6064)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie
County School District No. 1 to provide services for general education students for the 2013 -
2014 school year.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6065)
 
[CA] Professional Services Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Be nchMark
Engineers, P.C. for the Christensen Railroad Overpass and Corridor Project (1% Specific Purpose
Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $1,401,050.00).
(#6066)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Wyoming Department of
Health, Aging Division, to provide supportive services to persons 60 years or older (Title III-B
Program Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.    
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, Victim Witness Program, and
the State of Wyoming, Division of Victim Services, for services to victims of crime (Victim
Services grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Ashley McInelly, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant)  -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Brenda John son, for crime vic tim a ssistance se rvices ( Victim Se rvices grant) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Leslie Burch, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee.  
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Friends of the
Cheyenne Botanic Garden, a non-profit corporation, regarding future gifts which may be made
by the Foundation to the City -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Amendment  No. 1 to City Contract No. 5874 and State Lease Agreement No. 8-09466
between the City  of Chey enne a nd State of Wy oming, De partment of A dministration and
Information, Construction Management, for rental of parking spaces located at the Cox Parking
Structure.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ($37,800.00 annual total contract revenue to the
City). (#5874)
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Use Agreement (Contract No. 5963) between the City of Cheyenne
and Level 3 Communications, LLC, for limited use of the public right-of-way for the installation
of fiber optic communications systems -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-5-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and L.E.R., Inc., d/b/a Renner, Denver, Colorado, for the Martin Luther
King Jr. Tennis Court project (State & Local grants; private donations).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $77,477.00). (#6067)   
Appointment of Tricia S. Crilly to the Cheyenne Housing Authority Board.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing bod y prese nt with the exception of May or Ka ysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointment).
[CA] Consideration to purchase one Montrose Prec ast Restroom Building  for the City  of
Cheyenne, Grounds & Facilities Division, from CXT Concrete Precast Buildings, Inc., Spokane,
Washington (Community Development Block grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of a public hearing to be held on Monday, October 14, 2013,
at 6:00 p.m., in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive
public comment on a proposed trade of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, being a
parcel of land located generally east of Missile Drive and south of the right-of-way of West 22nd
Street, consisting  of 6,098 squar e fe et and ha ving a n appra ised value of  $6 ,098.00, to J ina
Morandin Costello, Jeanie M. Grogan, K. Tippy Costello, and Kyle W. Breeden.
Pursuant to comments by Amber Ash (refer to above agenda item on re-zoning ordinance
for Snyder Plaza), Mayor Kaysen noted the ordinance would be reviewed again at the October 8th
Public Services Committee meeting and the October 14  regular meeting of the governing bodyth
(meetings open to the public).  Ms. Wil liams commented on pro- growth and re ferenced the
protest petition she had filed relative to proposed retail business activity concerns involving the
site.
There being no fur ther business to come be fore the g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:15 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 3, 2013