MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-10-14 | CLIP_ID: 397 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 397

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 October 14, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  P resent were: MAYOR - R ichard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor
and Ms. Williams.  Absent: Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff,
City Treasurer, and John Ridge, Deputy City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the governing body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two other membe rs is rec eived.  Any item removed f rom the Consent Ag enda w ill be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)   Ms. Broyles  moved to approve, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 23, 2013.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Allen moved to approve payment
of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present in Council Chambers.   Following announcement of the vote, Mr.
Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Public hearing to  receive public comment on a proposed trade of real property owned by
the City of Cheyenne, being a parcel of land located generally east of Missile Drive and south of
the right-of-way of West 22  Street, consisting of 6,098 squa re feet and having an appraisednd
value of $6,098.00, to Jina Morandin Costello, Jeanie M. Grogan, K. Tippy Costello, and Kyle
W. Breeden in exchange for certain  real property generally located east of Missile Drive and
north of the right-of-way of West 22  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming, having appraised value ofnd
$43,560.00.  Pete Laybourn spoke in support of the proposed trade of property which is affiliated
with a City drainage project in the vicinity.  Mayor Kaysen noted that Agenda I tem #22
(Resolution regarding the trade of properties) is related to the public hearing topic and further
input from the public could be m ade at the Octobe r 21  Finance Committee meeting.  Therest
being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen
closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5 .1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, chang ing the  zoning classific ation from  A-1 Agr icultural and Rura l
Residential (County) to MUR Mixed-Use Residential  Emphasis for Snyder Plaza, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Snyder Avenue, north of W. Allison Road) (postponed
from Sept. 23, 2013).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to withdraw
the item from the agenda, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members
of the governing body present.
  
ORDINANCE - Amending the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), to allow,
after conditional discretionary review, Service Uses, Animal Care - Hospital/Clinic in the MUB
Mixed-Use Business Emphasis and the NB Neighborhood Business zone districts and to allow,
as a use permitted by right, Service Uses, Animal Care - Kennel in the LI Light Industrial zone
district.  Troy Thompson, veterinarian, voiced his support for the ordinance.  Mr. Allen moved
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present. (#4000)
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt t o Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from NB Neighborhood Business to MR-
2 Medium Density Residential - Developing for Lots 15 and 16, Block 17, Crest Ridge, 4  Filing,th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Storey Boulevard, between Canyon and
Ridge Roads).  John Bonifer, Steil Surveying, agent for Leaning Tree Homes, requested a two
week postponement to October 28, 2013.  Roger Alexander and Debbie Hall, vicinity property
owners, spoke in oppo sition to the zone chang e.  The y expressed conc erns with the ty pe of
development (multi-family residential 4- plexes) planned for  the site; maintaining  the cur rent
predominantly single residential home environment in the area, and effect on neighborhood with
regard to noise, increased vehicular traffic and potential for increase in crime.  Mr. Allen reported
there was no recommendation on the item from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Allen  moved
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Allen moved to postpone
to Oct. 28, 2013, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Bonifer clarified the developer
requested the postponement.  Discussion included the  ap proximate number  of apa rtment
complexes located within each of the City Ward districts and the apparent need for affordable
housing.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Mr. Luna voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 & 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, Repealing and Re-enacting Unified Development Code Section 2.4.2, Annexations.  Mr.
Allen reported there was no recommendation on the item from Public Services Committee.  Mr.
Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Discussion involved the
purpose of the ordinance, which is to simplify the annexation process by more closely following
state statute provisions, and re move redundancy from the c urrent process.  Motion carrie d.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  
ORDINANCE - Repealing Chapter 13.20, Wastewater and Disposal, in its entirety and
re-creating Chapter 13.20, Wastewater Treatment and Disposal, of Title 13, Public Services, of
the City of Cheyenne City Code.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by
Mr. Shanor.  Comments followed regarding the purpose of the ordinance, which is to bring City
Code provisions up to date with curr ent EPA and DEQ  regulations and requirements.  Upon
inquiry, J im Hughe s, Water Recla mation Manag er, B oard of  Public Utili ties, advised the
ordinance was pre pared pursuant to 2005 re visions to t he EPA’s na tional treatment program
which changed streamlining and pre-treatment rules, noting the update should make it easier for
BOPU staff and community industrial users to understand, and clarified the program has not been
updated for about 20 years.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 9.16.070(A), sale of tobacco to persons under the age
of eighteen years prohibited, of Chapter 9.16, Offenses by or against minors, of Chapter 9, Public
Peace and Welfare, of the Cheyenne City Code, pertaining to electronic cigarettes.  Officer John
Gay, Cheyenne Police Department (CPD), advised CPD supports the proposed ordinance change
and c ited b enefits o f in corporating th e s tate s tatute r estriction w ithin mu nicipal c ourt’s
jurisdiction for officer efficiency purposes; to provide the ability to verify re-occuring offenses;
to have a pre-determined bond/fine schedule, and for any juvenile assistance programs that may
be available through municipal court.  Amy Schicketanz, owner, Straight Line Vapors, and Lisa
Ammons, Wyoming Prevention Management office, each spoke in support of the ordinance to
restrict sales to minors.  E ach discussed and pr ovided data a nd statistical information on e-
cigarettes as well as regular cigarette tobacco products.  Ms. Schicketanz comments included the
following topics: E-cigarettes as a helpful tool for those who are trying to quit smoking; lack of
data reflecting that kids become addicted to e-cigarettes; her opposition to any potential future
ordinance involving e-cigarettes as a tobacco product and the City’s current smoking in public
places regulations; nicotene and e-cigarette (cartridge(s)) ingredients and chemicals, and review
of enforcement measures prior to the ordinance being implemented.  In support of her comments,
Ms. Schicketanz submitted a packet of data on e-cigarettes (on file with City Clerk’s office) to
members of the governing body.  Ms. Ammons’ comments included composition of e-cigarettes
and how they’re used (inhaled); court rulings determining e-cigarettes as tobacco products;
similar laws in other states, and lack of regulation of the products by the FDA.  Mr. Allen moved
to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry, John Ridge, Deputy City
Attorney, clarified if a citation is written as an offense against city code rather than state statute
then the fin e would go to the City.  Clarification was made that the ordinance would not be
outlawing e-cigarettes but is aimed only at restricting sales of e-cigarettes to minors.  Discussion
included the following topics:   “Mirroring” state statute; preventing youth from gaining access
to these devic es; whether fines a ssessed to be r eceived by the City  was ove rshadowing the
purpose of the ordinance, and procedural benefits for police officers to be able to cite offenders
into municipal court vs. circ uit court.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Luna voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Amending , cre ating, deleting  and re -creating various cha pters and
Sections within Titl e 8, He alth and Safe ty, of the Chey enne City Code rela ting to g eneral
provisions pertaining to Fire Protection and Regulations, and adoption of the International Fire
Code, 2012 Edition, and certain codes  and practices promulgated by the National Fire Protection
Association.  Mr. Shanor declared a conflict of interest (property business interest) and vacated
Council Chambers.  Gl en Garrett, architect, advised he was asked to attend a D DA design
meeting wherein the B uilding and Fire Departments discussed the new pr oposed codes and
amendments from the 2006 Code to the 2012 Code.  He reviewed and discussed the following
three items of concern: Retroactivity; concurrence (interdepartmental communication between
Building and Fire staff), and undefined terms.  His comments included local authority vs. State
Fire Marshall and state statute regulations and restrictions; effect on historic buildings that may
be remodeled or renovated; what constitutes a “distinct hazard”, and concern with enforcement
and complianc e.  Mr. Allen move d to ap prove on second rea ding, se conded by Mr. L una.
Discussion included the following topics: Ordinance providing some positive changes with
regard to day cares and disposal of f ireworks; existing structures and conditions; omissi on of
chief bui lding of ficial a uthority; di scretion o f f ire c hief o r d esignated f ire c ode of ficial;
opportunity for appeal of decisions involving interpretation of the codes, and inspection process
and procedures utili zed by the fire  department.  During  discussion and u pon inquiry, Mark
Norford, Division Chief, Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department, provided information on the
fire c ode off icial; appea l proce ss throug h the Fir e Code B oard of  Appea ls and member
composition of the Board; examples of a distinct hazard scenario as well as what might constitute
an “egregious” violation, and how often inspections are conducted.  Mr. Garrett stated the fire
code official is defined in the fire code and it could be the fire chief or their designee.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers with
the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor
returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections contained in Chapters 8.20, 8.24, 8.28 and
8.32 within Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Cheyenne City Code relating to General Provisions
pertaining to Fire Protection and Regulations.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Mr. Cook.  It was noted the or dinance includes the topics of public display s of
fireworks and underground storage of tanks.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 2.32, Fire Department, Section 2.32.020, Department
Personnel, and Cha pter 2.84, Misce llaneous B oards a nd Commi ssions, Section 2.84.050,
International Fire Code Boa rd of Appeal s, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of  the
Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the Fire and Rescue Department.  Mr. Allen moved to approve
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  It was advised the ordinance is a bookkeeping clean-
up to Cit y Code sections involving F ire De partment divis ion names and ti tles, and the
International Fire Code.  Motion carri ed.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Declaring as surplus a City-owned property located at 522 Van Lennen
Avenue (All of Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block 660, South Cheyenne), together with improvements
thereon, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and authorizing the City's Purchasing Director
to proceed with the bidding process for sale of said parcel pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §15-1-112.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5530)
RESOLUTION - A mending Resolution No. 5521 and authorizing submission of an
application to the Wy oming Business Council, Business Ready  Community Grant and Loan
Program for funding through the Downtown De velopment Grant and L oan Program for an
elevated walkway.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to
amend by substitut e resolution, secon ded by Ms. Broyles.  I t was cla rified the a mendment
addresses a request from Cheyenne LEADS and Spirit Hospitality to extend the walkway lease
through 2 035 to  c oordinate wi th t he pr oposed te rm of Spirit H ospitality’s ho tel f ranchise
agreement.  Upon inquiry, Anja  Bendel, Business Development Director, Cheyenne LEADS,
advised this is part of the revenue recapture plan, wherein there is a grant and loan agreement
through the Wyoming Business Council and a portion of the lease fee amount will be used to pay
off the loan.  She clarified both the public and hotel will have access to the walkway.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as
amended by substitute carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#5531)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  final plat and
development agreement for Terre Pont Subdivision, a portion of the S1/2 of Section 20, T.14N.,
R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of
Prairie Avenue and Frontier Mall Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr.
Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Requiring the officers described in Section 2.08.010(A) of the Cheyenne
City Code, other than fire chief, to submit departmental estimates of all proposed expenditures
at least five months prior to the expiration of any budget approved pursuant to W.S. §16-4-111 --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne to enter
into an agreement for the trade of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne being a parcel of
land located generally east of Missile Drive and south of the right-of-way of West 22  Street, nd
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to Jina Morandin Costello, Jeanie M. Grogan, K. Tippy Costello, and Kyle
W. Breeden, in exchange for certain  real property generally located east of Missile Drive and
north of the r ight-of-way of West 22  Street, Chey enne, Wy oming - - re ferred to F inancend
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A pproving ‘The City  o f C heyenne, Wy oming, Compensation and
Classification Study, Final Report,’ dated October 1, 2013, prepared by the Mercer Group, Inc.,
and referring said study to the ‘Employee Investment Study Implementation Team’ created by
Resolution No. 5508.” -- referred to Committee of the Whole (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Mayor
Kaysen).  Under other business later in the meeting, Mayor Kaysen advised the Committee of the
Whole meeting will be held on Wednesday, Oct. 23, 2013 beginning at 6:00 p.m. in City Council
Chambers.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business
Council, Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for funding for the construction
of a rail spur within the Swan Ranch Industrial Park -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Brown).
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Wyoming Department of
Health, Aging Division, to provide supportive services to persons 60 years or older (Title III-B
Program Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6071)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, Victim Witness Program, and
the State of Wyoming, Division of Victim Services, for services to victims of crime (Victim
Services grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6072)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Ashley McInelly, for c rime victim assistance se rvices (Victim Serv ices grant).  Motion (pe r
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $26,585.16). (#6073)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Brenda Johnson, f or crime victim assistance se rvices (Victim Service s grant).  Motion (pe r
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $33,489.84). (#6074)  
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Leslie Burch, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant).    Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $44,992.92).  (#6075)  
Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Friends of the
Cheyenne Botanic Garden, a non-profit corporation, regarding future gifts which may be made
by the Foundation to the City.  Mary Keating-Scott, Treasurer, Friends of the Cheyenne Botanic
Gardens Foundation, requested a two week postponement to allow tim e to provide additional
information to the community and City Council relative to a recent editorial in a local newspaper.
Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone to October
28, 2013, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Wyoming Department
of Transportation for Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program Fiscal Year 2014 (Non-Urbanized
Area Formula Grants) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract b etween t he City o f C heyenne, P olice D epartment, a nd L aramie C ounty,
Wyoming, f or  re imbursement of dua l-commissioned Juvenile Diversion Of ficer’s sala ry
(revenue to City) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Master A greement for Me tropolitan Tra nsportation Planning be tween the Wyoming
Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, and the Cheyenne Metropolitan
Planning Organization -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Agent and Fiscal Manager Addendum to Master Agreement for the Cheyenne
Metropolitan Planning Organization between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Federal
Highway Administr ation, Federal Transit Administration and the Wy oming De partment of
Transportation -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding - Funding Distribution for Metropolitan Transportation
Planning between the Wyoming Department of Transportation and the Casper  and Cheyenne
Metropolitan Planning Organizations (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, Federal funds) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and The
Design Studio, Inc., for construction contract administration for the renovation and expansion
of the existing conservatory/greenhouse at the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens (1% Specific Purpose
Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Grant Award for United States Department of Homeland Security reimbursing the City
of Cheyenne for expenditures for security cameras -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Land and Building Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Verizon Wireless
(VAW) LLC d/b/a Verizon Wi reless, for the property located at 4500 Dell Range Boulevard,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for antenna space, exterior space, ingress right-of-way, cabling space, and
utilities right-of-way -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of C heyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority, to provide
services as described in the Olde r Americans Act of 1965, a s amended -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness Cente r, Inc., Al cohol
Receiving Center, to provide social, non- medical alcohol and drug  detoxification services - -
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Use Agreement (Contract No. 5963) between the City of Cheyenne
and Level 3 Communications, LLC, for limited use of the public right-of-way for the installation
of fiber optic communications systems.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5963)
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 4173 between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police
Department, and New World Systems Corporation, to upgrade software and hardware  law
enforcement computer system from an IBM/AS400 platform to a Microsoft platform -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contrac t No. 578 1 between the City  of Chey enne a nd Ayres
Associates for the addition of strate gic g rant wr iting ser vices a nd associate d preliminary
engineering design required by grants to ena ble securing of additional g rant funding for the
Cheyenne West Edge (Lower Capital Basin) Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-5-14 for furnishing one new mobile command unit for the City
of Cheyenne, Police Department (Law Enforcement Grants) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-7-14 for furnishing an air compressor for Parks and Recreation
Department, Grounds & Facilities Division -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-6-14 for f urnishing one new va cuum tru ck for the City  of
Cheyenne, Public Works Department, Street and Alley Division (2011 -2014 1% Sales Tax) --
referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-7-14 for constructing a wood structure, metal siding building,
for the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, Forestry Division (2011 -2014 1%
Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration to purchase one Montrose  Precast Restroom Building f or the City  of
Cheyenne, G rounds & F acilities Division from CXT Concrete  Preca st Buildings, I nc., of
Spokane, Washington (Community Development Block grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $126,000.00). 
Announcement was made of the Re-appointment of Earl B. Kincheloe to the Cheyenne
Housing Authority Board, to be confirmed October 28, 2013. 
Announcement was made of a public hearing to be held October 28, 2013, at 6:00 p.m.,
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to hear public comments
regarding whether the Mayor and the City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne should be authorized
to file an application for grant and/or loan funds under the Wyoming Business Council Business
Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for funding for the construction of a rail spur within
the Swan Ranch Industrial Park, located generally west of Interstate 25 and south of Interstate
80, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.  The public is invited to attend and participate. 
Under other business:
Pete Laybourn commented on landscaping requirements and areas along Lincolnway that
are in need up maintenance  and upkeep, such as mowing  and weeding, graffiti removal, etc.;
spoke in support of the improvements made in Holliday Park relative to the Greenway underpass,
and requested City Council review the Keep America Beautiful program, commenting on the City
of Casper’s beautification program.
Major Dorr commented favorably on the water drainage project currently going on in the
west part of Cheyenne, and questioned whether there had been any discussions with potentially
interested businesses regarding opening a grocery store on the west side.  Mayor Kaysen advised
that the City, through various representatives, have talked with major grocery stores asking them
to look at Cheyenne, specifically the area defined, with no success to date.  Du ring further
comments, Mayor Kaysen stated discussions had also been held about a cooperative effort (i.e.
potential to form a co-op) when the Safeway Store closed on Pioneer.  Pete Laybourn advised he
was involved in a pa st effort on how to cre ate a co-op in Chey enne and in the meeting s and
discussions, they learned it was a very challenging endeavor and cost-wise a co-op could not
compete financially with other major grocery/food stores.
Mr. Shanor questioned the public comment process under other business at City Council
meetings as it pertains to items on the meeting agenda that had been previously discussed or acted
upon earlier in the meeting, and requested City Attorney staff research the topic.
There being no further business to come bef ore the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 8:06  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 22, 2013