MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-10-28 | CLIP_ID: 399 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 399

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 October 28, 2013
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  P resent were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and
Ms. Williams.  Absent: Ms. Broyles.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by the governing body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two  other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to
support received by Mr. Allen and Mr. Cook, Agenda Item #18 was removed from the Consent
Agenda.  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, a nd pursuant to support rece ived by Mr. Allen and Mr .
Cook, Agenda Item #24(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Allen  moved to approve
remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 14, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve payment
of vouchers as pre sented, seconded by Mr. L una.  Comment followed re garding a vouche r
payable to TruGreen Commercial, contract services for grounds aeration/seed work, due to labor
shortage.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Public hearing to receive public comments regarding whether the Mayor and the City
Clerk of the City of Cheyenne should be authorized to file an application for grant and/or loan
funds under  the Wy oming Business Council Business Ready  Communi ty Gra nt and L oan
Program for funding for the construction of a rail spur within the Swan Ranch Industrial Park,
located generally west of Interstate 25 and south of Interstate 80, Cheyenne, Laramie County,
Wyoming.  Ma yor Ka ysen noted that Ag enda I tem #21 (Resolution regar ding the gra nt
application) is re lated to the public hearing  topic and is being  rec ommended (by  Financ e
Committee) for postponement.  Due to the anticipated postponement of the resolution, Mayor
Kaysen queried whether there was any objection by City Council members to resc hedule the
public hearing to Tuesday, November 12, 2013 at 6:00 p.m.  There  being no objection raised,
Mayor Ka ysen ann ounced the hear ing w as being  canc elled and w ould be re scheduled for
November 12 , and noted an announcement of the rescheduled hearing was included on theth
meeting agenda (Agenda Item #28 (d)).
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section  2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from NB Neighborhood Business to MR-
2 Medium Density Residential - Developing for Lots 15 and 16, Block 17, Crest Ridge, 4  Filing,th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Storey Boulevard, between Canyon and
Ridge Roads) (Postponed from October 14, 2013).  Brett Walker, Development Office, advised
pursuant to a pr otest peti tion that had bee n filed opposing  the zone chang e, it had bee n
determined the petition met Wyoming Statute §15-1-603 requirements that at least 20% of
eligible property owners (within the boundary area) had signed the petition, therefore, approval
of the ordina nce would require an affirmative vote by  at least 3/4ths of all member s of the
governing body.  Roger Alexander, Tom Hood , John Nichols, Shelley Hood, Elisa Sanders, Kyle
Lovell and De bbie Hall, re sidents in the vicinity , spoke in opposition to t he proposed zone
change.  Comments included the following topics: Developer’s offer to sell the property to the
neighbors; prop osed construction of multi-family residential units in a  predominantly single
residential home e nvironment; proper ty values; quality  of life c oncerns i nvolving potential
increase in noise, traffic, safety, density and crime; renters not having a property investment in
the neighborhood, and number of multi-residential (apartment) units already in existence in the
area.  J. Volk, local real estate agent, advised of the community’s need for mid-range rental units
and his belief that the proposed zone change is applicable for current times relative to progressive
growth and development of the City.  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, commented on
difficulty in finding rental properties in the community; applicable zoning for the property and
recommended zoning f or the a rea contained in PlanCheyenne, and property rights and equa l
protection for the owner of the property proposed to be re-zoned.  Casey Palma, Steil Surveying
Services, agent for a pplicant, Leaning Tree H omes, advised the a pplicant is a loca lly-owned
company and discussed meetings that have been held with the neighborhood to listen to concerns
and developer’s willingness to continue to listen to residents during the development project.  Mr.
Palma commented on criteria contained in PlanCheyenne and the Unified Development Code
(UDC) and meeting compliance with codes, a nd that acc ess into the proposed development
would be o ff Storey Blvd., noting a proposed lay-out of the development is available.  Donn
Edmunds commented on wha t is the appr opriate a rea to place a partments in Chey enne.
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen  moved to appr ove on third and f inal
reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Discussion topics included: Comments in support as well
as non-support of the requested zone change; appropriate locations for multi-plex residential
units; developer working with residents on issues of concern; best interests of the community;
the UDC; focusing on agenda item topic of re-zoning and not the specific type of development
for the property, which will involve a plat and possible variance by the Board of Adjustment;
disapproval of a past zone change request involving property off Yellowstone Road; whether the
proposed zone change is appropriate for the property owner’s intended use, and uses by right
allowed unde r a MR-2 zone cla ssification.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Walker provide d g eneral
information regarding density allowed per the lot size, noting setback and frontage requirements
would be reviewed; potential variance required by the Board of Adjustment, and site plan review
process.  M otion fa iled ( City Cle rk no te: Pu rsuant t o th e pr otest p etition a nd sta te sta tute
provision, minimum of eight affirmative votes required for final passage).  Voting “yes” -- Mr.
Allen, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” – Mr. Brown, Mr.
Cook, Mr. Luna and Dr. Rinne.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 & 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, Repealing and Re-enacting Unified Development Code Section 2.4.2, Annexations.  Mr.
Allen moved to appr ove on third and f inal reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carrie d.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4001)
ORDINANCE - Repealing Chapter 13.20, Wastewater and Disposal, in its entirety and
re-creating Chapter 13.20, Wastewater Treatment and Disposal, of Title 13, Public Services, of
the C ity o f C heyenne C ity C ode.  M r. Al len m oved t o ap prove o n t hird an d fi nal reading,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present. (#4002)
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 9.16.070(A), sale of tobacco to persons under the age
of eighteen years prohibited, of Chapter 9.16, Offenses by or against minors, of Chapter 9, Public
Peace and Welfare, of the Cheyenne City Code, pertaining to electronic cigarettes.  Officer John
Gay, Cheyenne Police Department, provided information, pursuant to comments made at the last
meeting, on the ability to enforce the ordinance based on nicotine information contained on e-
cigarette cartridges, and commented that enforcement options for violators may include use of
diversion programs, such as community service.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final
reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Upon inquiry, Officer Gay confirmed sales of an e-cigarette
itself t o minors, u nder t he o rdinance, wo uld n ot b e p rohibited, b ut an y af filiated ca rtridge
containing nicotine fluid would make it illegal, and stated the definition of tobacco contained in
the ordinance matches the definition in state law.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Allen, Mr. Cook and Mr. Luna voting
“no”. (#4003)
ORDINANCE - A mending, cre ating, deleting  and re -creating various cha pters and
Sections within Titl e 8, He alth and Safe ty, of the Chey enne City Code rela ting to ge neral
provisions pertaining to Fire Protection and Regulations, and adoption of the International Fire
Code, 2012 Edition, and certain codes  and practices promulgated by the National Fire Protection
Association.  Mr. Shanor declared a conflict of interest (property business interest) and vacated
Council Chambers.  Chief James Martin, Fire  and Rescue Department, spoke in support of a
proposed substitute ordinance; stated his belief the ordinance meets the state’s intent that codes
can not be less restrictive than those adopted by the state, and read a statement of support for the
ordinance he had re ceived from the Dir ector of Planning  Services, who overse es the City ’s
Building Department.  Glen Garrett, local architect and downtown property owner, advised he
and oth er d owntown pr operty ow ners a ssisted t he Do wntown D evelopment A uthority wi th
funding to hire a code consultant to review and discuss concerns regarding the proposed updated
code version.  Mr. Garrett’s comments included the following topics of concern: Retroactive
enforcement and potential effect on owners of historic buildings; uncertainty of the meaning of
the phrases “distinct hazard(s)” and buildings “not legally in existence at the time of adoption of
this code”; interpretation and enforcement issues affiliated with both Building and Fire codes;
recent adoption of updated building codes, and State Fire Marshall’s role involving code versions
and compliance with the state’s adopted version.  He explained reasons why he felt concurrence
of cod e interpretations (i.e. Building  Codes and F ire Codes) be tween de signated Fir e and
Building staff was needed, and suggested the structure and processes of the Building Code Board
of Appeals and Fire Code Board of Appeals be reviewed.  Mr. Allen reported there was no
recommendation on the item from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on
third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Allen m oved to amend by  substitut e,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  It was advised the  substitute amends ordina nce Section 8.12.030 by
inserting new wording for section B., amending Section 102.1 of the I nternational Fire Code
(IFC), by adding subsection 5 that will read:  “In making a determination whether a particular
structure, facility or condition constitutes a distinct hazard, the fire code official shall follow the
guidelines and procedures specified for Section 102.1.4 which appear on page 1-8 of the official
commentary to the 2012 Edition of the International Fire Code.”  Mr. Garrett stated the official
commentary information is “obscure” and not easily available to the public, expressing that the
commentary may contain subjective language, and questioned whether the page reference meant
pages 1 throug h 8 or a s ingle page numbered 1-8.  Upon inquiry , Mark Nor ford, Chief of
Prevention, Fire a nd Rescue D epartment, clarifie d pag e 1-8 r eferenced in the propose d
amendment means page 1 “dash” 8 (single page) and that a copy of the page will be provided to
the City Clerk’s office.  Mr. Norford noted  correspondence dated October 24, 2013 (on file with
City Clerk’s office) that he had submitted to members of the governing body that included the
commentary wording pertaining to Item 4 of Section 102.1, as contained on page 1-8, and read
the commentary wording.  Comment followed in support of the proposed substitute.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.
Discussion topics included the phrase buildings “not legally in existence”; current buildings
under construction; building codes vs. fire codes, and concern with removing the retroactivity
wording that is included in curr ent code.  During  discussion and upon inquiry , Mr. Norf ord
provided information regarding current buildings under construction, which will be inspected
under current existing code, and historic buildings relative to being legally in existence, and
advised building and fire codes are designed to w ork together and neither code can waive
requirements of the other.  Mr. Allen moved to amend, seconded by Mr. Cook, ordinance Section
8.12.030 (B), amending Section 102.1 of the IFC, by inserting the following  subsection: 4.
Existing structures, facilities and conditions which, in the opinion of the fire code official, and
with concurrence of the chief building official or his designee, constitute a distinct hazard to life
or property.  Upon request, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, reiterated the wording of the proposed
amendment.  Mr. Norford advised the department believes the proposed amendment would be
less restrictive than the code adopted by the state and could create a situation which, if
concurrence was not reac hed, could a llow a distinct hazard to rema in in place, whic h may
increase a hazard to the public.  He noted the ordinance proposed by the Fire Department was
vetted through the building of ficial a nd had bee n ag reed upon by  both Fire  and B uilding
departments.  Speaking in support of the amendment were Bob Clary and Mr. Garrett, noting it
would provide c oncurrence through cooperative efforts between the two  departments.  Mr.
Norford noted there  is a specif ic appeals process available to t he public to re dress any code
interpretation concerns which involves both a Building Code Board of Appeals and a Fire Code
Board of Appeals, and, with regard to the proposed amendment, there are many potential distinct
hazards that may need to be addressed through consultation with other individuals that fall
outside of the chief building official’s authority or expertise.  Upon request, Ms. Intlekofer read
the wording of the proposed amendment on the floor.  Upon request for clarification, Mr. Norford
confirmed his previous statement that it was the opinion of F ire Department staff tha t the
proposed amendment could cause a situation that would be less restrictive than the code version
adopted by the state.  Motion to amend failed (tie vote).  Voting “yes” – Mr. Allen, Mr. Cook,
Mr. Luna and Ms. Williams.  Voti ng “no” – Mr . Brown, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Val dez and Mayor
Kaysen.  Main motion as amended failed (City Clerk note: Ordinance on final reading requires
minimum affirmative vote (6 votes) of all members of the governing body to pass).  Voting “yes”
-- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” – Mr. Cook, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council
Chambers.  Unde r other  busine ss later in the mee ting, Mr. Cook, who had voted on the
prevailing side on the motion to approve on final reading as amended, moved to reconsider the
vote on the ordinance (Agenda Item #12), seconded by Mr. Allen.  Mr. Shanor declared a conflict
of int erest ( property bu siness i nterest) a nd vacated Co uncil Ch ambers.  U pon r equest, Ms.
Intlekofer reviewed criteria involving a motion to reconsi der and read the entitlement of the
ordinance proposed to be reconsidered into the record.  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting
“yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following comment
that it has been the practice of City Council in the past that when an item has been brought up and
approved for r econsideration under other business the item has be en postponed to allow for
public awareness of the action, Dr. Rinne moved to postpone the item to November 12, 2013,
seconded by Mr. Valde z.  Mot ion to postpone carr ied.  Voting “yes” – all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers.
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:20 p.m.
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections contained in Chapters 8.20, 8.24, 8.28 and
8.32 within Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Cheyenne City Code relating to General Provisions
pertaining to Fire Protection and Regulations.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final
reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to November 12, 2013, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 2.32, Fire Department, Section 2.32.020, Department
Personnel, and Cha pter 2.84, Misce llaneous B oards and C ommissions, Section 2.84.050,
International Fire Code Boa rd of Appe als, of Title 2, Administration and Personne l, of the
Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the Fire and Rescue Department.  Mr. Allen moved to approve
on th ird and fi nal r eading, s econded b y Ms.  Willi ams.  Mr . A llen mo ved to  po stpone to
November 12, 2013, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - A mending the Chey enne U nified De velopment Code (UD C), as
approved by O rdinance N o. 3 943 o n Ja nuary 2 3, 2 012, to  a dopt a mendments id entified as
Election and Ideological Sign Amendments from 2013 Annual Review -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per  Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5532)
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  final plat and
development agreement for Terre Pont Subdivision, a portion of the S1/2 of Section 20, T.14N.,
R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of
Prairie Avenue and F rontier Mall Drive).  B randon Cammarata, Planning and De velopment
Director, advised the a pplicant has requested postponement of the item to fur ther re view
language in the propose d development a greement.  Mr. A llen moved to adopt with st aff
recommendation #1, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Allen moved to postpone to November 12,
2013, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.
RESOLUTION - Requiring the officers described in Section 2.08.010(A) of the Cheyenne
City Code, other than fire chief, to submit departmental estimates of all proposed expenditures
at least five months prior to the expiration of any budget approved pursuant to W.S. §16-4-111.
Reporting for F inance Committee, Mr. B rown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr.
Shanor moved to amend, seconded by Mr. Allen, as follows:  (1) Change phrase contained in
entitlement language from “ ... to submit departmental estimates of all proposed expenditures ...”
to read “... to submit a narr ative of the anticipated budget, strategic goals and objectives and
departmental priorities for the upcoming fiscal year ...”; (2) Change phrase contained in the 5th
Whereas clause from “... benefit from receiving individual departmental estimates of all proposed
expenditures ...” to re ad “... be nefit from receiving a nar rative of the depa rtmental goals and
objectives ...”; (3) Change phrase contained in the 6  Whereas clause from “... the r eceipt ofth
individual departmental estimates of all proposed expenditures ...” to read “... the receipt of the
narrative described above ...“; (4) Striking the  first Now, ther efore, be it re solved clause and
replacing in its entirety with the following : “Now, therefore, be it re solved by the Governing
Body of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, that each officer described in Section 2.08.010(A) of
the Cheyenne City Code, other than the fire chief, shall submit their narrative of the anticipated
budget, strategic goals and objectives, and department priorities for the upcoming fiscal year.”,
and (5) Striking in its entirety the last resolved clause which begins with “... Be it further resolved
that each departmental estimate ...”.  Comment followed that the intent of the amendment is to
give Cou ncil m embers a  sn apshot of  wh ere de partment h eads a re in t he bu dget pr ocess i n
February and provide  more tra nsparency.  Mr.  Brown offered a friendly amendment to the
proposed wording change to the Now, therefore, be it resolved clause (re:. (4) above) to include
the following words at the end of the sentence “... to the City Council”.  Mr. Shanor, as maker
of the motion to a mend, concurred with inclusion of the friendly amendment wording in h is
motion.  Mr. Allen raised a  point of order concerning clarification of the friendly amendment
relative to t he status of the initial motion to amend, and, following verification, voiced his
concurrence, as the second to the motion to amend, with inclusion of the friendly amendment
wording.  Upon quer y and ther e being no objection ra ised by City Council members, May or
Kaysen questioned whether there needed to be a specified time frame for submission to the City
Council relative to wo rding, including the friendly amendment, to be c ontained in the “Now,
therefore, be it resolved” clause.  Mr. Shanor verified the time frame outlined in the resolution
indicating “at least five (5) months prior to the expiration of any budget approved pursuant to
W.S. § 16-4-111" would apply.  Motion to amend, including the friendly amendment wording,
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Comment was voiced as
to  t he necessity of the resolution.  Main motion, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- a ll
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Br own and Mayor Kaysen
voting “no”.  (#5533)
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne to enter
into an agreement for the trade of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne being a parcel of
land located generally east of Missile Drive and south of the right-of-way of West 22  Street, nd
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to Jina Morandin Costello, Jeanie M. Grogan, K. Tippy Costello, and Kyle
W. Breeden, in exchange for certain  real property generally located east of Missile Drive and
north of the right-of-way of West 22  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consentnd
Agenda) carried. (#5534)
RESOLUTION - A cknowledging re ceipt o f ‘ The C ity o f C heyenne, W yoming,
Compensation and Classification Study, Final Report,’ dated October 1, 2013, prepared by the
Mercer Group, Inc., and referring said study to the ‘Employee Investment Study Implementation
Team’ created by Resolution No. 5508.”  Dr . Rinne reported the Committee of the Who le
recommendation w as to  a dopt t he re solution wi th n ew l anguage “ Acknowledging re ceipt”
(replacing the previous wording of “Approving”) and moved to so adopt, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Mr. Shanor moved to amend the last paragraph that begins with “Be it further resolved ...“ by
adding the words “all or some of” to be contained in the following phrase “... a plan containing
alternative means of implementing all or some of the recommendations of said study ...”, and to
change the date contained in the paragraph from January 1, 2014 to February 1, 2014, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Comment followed on the intent of the amendment, which is to provide the team
with more direction and allow more time for the team to provide its recommendations.  Motion
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Carol Intlekofer,
City Clerk, expressed her belief that the entitlement as listed on t he agenda was incorrect and
should instead read a “Resolution Approving ...” to match the document as initially submitted
on the October 14  agenda.  Ms. Intlekofer explained the approved recommendation action at theth
Committee of the Whole meeting involved an amendment by substitute that changed the word
“approving” to “a cknowledging receipt of”, and offered suggestion that perhaps a motion to
amend by substitute may be in order.  Dr. Rinne confirmed the recommending action taken at the
Committee meeting was to adopt the resolution as amended by substitute which replaced the
original language “approving” with “acknowledging receipt of” and also corrected some clerical
errors, and moved to amend by substitute.  Ms. Intlekofer requested verification as to the correct
version of the substitute, referencing the attorney’s stamp date of October 23, 2013, and it was
confirmed the substitute resolution was the docume nt that was acted upon at the Committee
meeting.  Mr. Allen raised a point of order inquiring whether there was a main motion on the
floor with Mayor Kaysen advising there was a motion on the floor to amend by substitute (City
Clerk note:  Motion to amend by substitute was made, however, no second to the motion was
received.)  Procedural discussion followed regarding the substitute resolution, intent of the main
motion made by Dr. Rinne to adopt pursuant to recommending action taken at the Committee
meeting which included changing the language of “approving” to “acknowledging receipt of”
(and providing for clerical corrections), and relationship of the substitute to Mr. Shanor’s motion
to amend that had been approved.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised procedurally
the substitute resolution should have bee n approved prior to the motion to amend (i.e. Mr.
Shanor’s motion), and expressed that approval of the substitute will not alter the changes in the
first approved amendment (i.e. Mr. Shanor’s motion).  It was confirmed the agenda wording for
the item was incorrect and, as no dissent was voiced, that all of the members of the governing
body present were aware of and in agreement that the main motion to adopt, as explained by Dr.
Rinne regarding the Committee’s recommendation, pertained to the resolution as amended and
recommended at t he Committee of the Whole meeting .  Upon inquiry  and with no objection
raised by those City Council members present, Mayor Kaysen stated the main motion on the floor
was to adopt the r esolution which has the lang uage of “acknowledging receipt of” and which
incorporates Mr. S hanor’s amendment.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present. (#5535)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business
Council, Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for funding for the construction
of a rail spur within the Swan Ranch Industrial Park.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone to November 12, 2013, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  It
was advised postponement is to allow time for an agreement with Granite Peak to be completed.
Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an Application to the Wyoming State Loan
and Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Clean Water State Revolving fund for an
amount not to ex ceed $1.3 million for e ngineering costs for the Phase O ne Southern Sewe r
Interceptor Main Project and Authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and the Director of the Board
of Public Utilities to execute the application and all related loan documents -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  City  of  Chey enne, Wy oming to f inance Spe cific
Purpose Sales and U se Tax Election projec ts including but not limit ed to th e costs of the
planning, construction, furnishing, equipping, and acquiring materials for improvement of land,
including the Public Safety Center  and the payment of lease service payments and the costs of
the financed project, and related thereto authorizing the execution and delivery of a Purchase
Agreement, as seller, with U.S. Bank National Association, as buyer, and a lease with option to
purchase, as lessee, with U.S. Bank National Association, as lessor, with respect to the sale and
lease of certain real property as part of a fina ncing arrangement and ratifying, approving and
confirming previous actions of officers and members of the G overning Body of the City  and
employees thereof -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Friends of the
Cheyenne Botanic Garden, a non-profit corporation, regarding future gifts which may be made
by the Foundation to the City (Postponed from October 14, 2013).  Mr. Brown moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Shanor, seconded by Mr. Allen, moved to amend by adding a final
sentence to Section Three, Naming Rights, which would read: “The Executive Committee shall
meet pursuant to the requirements set forth in the Wyoming Public Meetings Act, W.S. § 16-4-
401 through W.S. § 16-4-408.”.  Ri ck Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, referenced his
comments on the item made at the last Finance Committee meeting and questioned whether the
amendment would put public scr utiny on a donor( s), which may be a c oncern relative to the
purpose of the MOU, and whether the public records act applies to the Foundation.  Discussion
comments included the intent of not putting potential donors through a “gauntlet”; members of
the public who may wish to attend Foundation meetings; clarification that the amendment would
only apply to the Ex ecutive Committee; purpose of  amendment to provide  transparency, and
support for Foundation’s efforts in supporting the Botanic Garden.  Motion to amend c arried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#6077)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Wyoming Department
of Transportation for Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program Fiscal Year 2014 (Non-Urbanized
Area Formula Grants).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6078)
[CA] Contract b etween t he C ity o f C heyenne, P olice D epartment, a nd La ramie C ounty,
Wyoming, for reimbursement of dual-commissioned Juvenile Diversion Officer’s salary (revenue
to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6079)
[CA] Master Agreement for Me tropolitan Transpor tation Planning betwe en the Wy oming
Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, and the Cheyenne Metropolitan
Planning Organization.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6080)
[CA] Contract Agent and Fiscal Manager Addendum to Master Agreement for the Cheyenne
Metropolitan Planning Organization between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Federal
Highway Administration, Fe deral Transit Administration and the Wy oming De partment of
Transportation.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6081)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding - Funding Distribution for Metropolitan Transportation
Planning between the Wyoming Department of Transportation and the Casper  and Cheyenne
Metropolitan Planning Organizations (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, Federal funds).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6082)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and The
Design Studio, Inc., for construction contract administration for the renovation and expansion
of the existing conservatory/greenhouse at the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens (1% Specific Purpose
Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $775,000.00).
(#6083)
[CA] Grant Award for United States Department of Homeland Security reimbursing the City
of Cheyenne for expenditures for  security cameras.  Mo tion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#6084)
[CA] Land and  Building Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Verizon Wireless
(VAW) LLC d/b/a Verizon Wi reless, for the property located at 4500 Dell Range Boulevard,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for antenna space, exterior space, ingress right-of-way, cabling space, and
utilities right-of-way.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6085)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority, to provide
services as described in the Older Americans Act of 1965, as amended.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $45,000.00). (#6086)
[CA] Contract betwe en the City  of Chey enne a nd Peak Wel lness Center, I nc., Alcohol
Receiving Ce nter, to p rovide so cial, n on-medical a lcohol a nd dr ug de toxification s ervices.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $84,955.00). (#6087)
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the State of
Wyoming De partment of T ransportation, Highw ay Safety  Prog ram for  mobile impaired
command post with accessories -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department, and Kaiser-Frontier
Midstream, an O klahoma L LC, to permit lim ited use of the public rig ht-of-way for the
installation of a natural gas pipeline and setting a fee -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 4173 between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police
Department, and Ne w World Sy stems Corporation,  to upg rade softwar e and ha rdware la w
enforcement computer system from an IBM/AS400 platform to a Microsoft platform.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $185,770.00). (#4173)
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contrac t No. 5781 between the City  of Chey enne a nd Ayres
Associates f or the addition of strate gic g rant wr iting ser vices a nd associate d preliminary
engineering design required by grants to ena ble securing of additional  grant funding for the
Cheyenne West Edge (Lower Capital Basin) Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $69,479.00). (#5781)
Consideration of Bid #R-5-14 for furnishing one new mobile command unit for the City
of Cheyenne, Police Department (Law Enforcement Grants).  Mr. Brown moved to accept the
bid from LDV, Burlington, WI, in an amount not to exceed $177,662.00, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Mr. Brown moved to postpone to Nove mber 12, 2013, seconded by Mr. Allen.  I t was noted
postponement will allow for approval of the required contract to accept grant funding, which was
introduced on the current agenda (Agenda Item #24l).  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-7-14 for furnishing an air compressor for Parks and Recreation
Department, Grounds & Facilities Division.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid
submitted by 4 Rivers Equipment, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $43,550.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-6-14 for furnishing one new vacuum truck for the City of
Cheyenne, Public Works Depa rtment, Street and A lley Division (2011 -2014 1% Sales Ta x).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid submitted by Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne,
in an amount not to exceed $343,298.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-7-14 for constructing a wood structure, metal siding building,
for the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, Forestry Division (2011 -2014 1%
Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (reject all bids).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-1-14 for the sale of surplus property described as the South 75
ft. of Lots 7 and 8, Block 229, Original City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (a/k/a 2100
Pioneer Avenue) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Re-appointment of Earl B. Kincheloe to the Cheyenne Housing Authority Board.  Mr.
Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  In response to inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advised
applicant forms for Mayoral appointees to boards and commissions are being revised and agenda
backup information will be provided in the future.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members
of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral
appointment).
Announcement was made that due to the Veterans Day Holiday on Monday, November
11, 2 013, the regularly scheduled meeting of the Governing Body will instead be held on
Tuesday, November 12, 2013 beg inning at 6:00 p.m. in C ity Council C hambers, Municipal
Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Tuesday, November 12, 2013,
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine
whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel
of land being situated in a portion of the Northwest Quarter of Section 13, Township 13 North,
Range 67 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming to be known as the CST Annexation
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of West College Drive and Southwest Drive).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Tuesday, November 12, 2013,
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine
whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel
of land being situated in a portion of the Northeast Quarter of Section 26, Township 14 North,
Range 66  Wes t of  the  6th  P.M ., L aramie Cou nty, Wy oming to be kn own a s th e Ko ritnik
Annexation (located at 3904 Whitney Road approximately 200 feet west of the northwest corner
of the intersection of Whitney Road and Countryside Avenue).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Nove mber 12, 2013, at 6:00
p.m., in C ity Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to hear public
comments regarding whether the Mayor and the City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne should be
authorized to file an application for grant and/or loan funds under the Wyoming Business Council
Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for funding for the construction of a rail
spur within the Swan Ranch Industrial Park, located generally west of Interstate 25 and south of
Interstate 80, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.
Under other business, motion to reconsider Agenda Item #12 carried - refer to minutes
section above (re: Ordinance pertaining to Title 8 of City Code regarding proposed International
Fire Code, 2012 Edition, adoption, etc.).
There being no further business to come bef ore the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 9:06  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 November 11, 2013