MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-11-12 | CLIP_ID: 401 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 401

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 November 12, 2013
Due to the Veterans Day holiday, the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne instead
convened in regular session on this date beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present
were: MA YOR -  Ric hard L. K aysen; COUN CIL ME MBERS - M r. Al len, Mr . Brown, M s.
Broyles, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor , Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Absent: Mr. Luna.
Also pr esent: Ca rol I ntlekofer, City  Cle rk; L ois Huf f, City  Tr easurer, a nd Da n Wh ite, Ci ty
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the governing body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two other membe rs is rec eived.  Any item removed f rom the Consent Ag enda w ill be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Allen, and pursuant to
support received by Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor, Agenda Item #20  was removed from the Consent
Agenda.  Mr. Allen  moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Brown.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 28, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez  moved to approve payment
of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr.
Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive public comments regarding whether the
Mayor and the City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne should be authorized to file an application for
grant and/or loan funds under the Wyoming Business Council Business Ready Community Grant
and Loan Program for funding for the construction of a rail spur within the Swan Ranch Industrial
Park, lo cated g enerally we st o f Interstate 25  a nd so uth o f Interstate 80 , Ch eyenne, Laramie
County, Wyoming.  Scott Sutherland, Granite Peak Development, provided a brief overview of
the initial Swan Ranch Industrial Park project, and information on the components of the proposed
grant a nd/or loan re quest involving t he rail spur c onnection and a ssociated de velopment
agreement.  He stated due to rising costs for the project, they are looking at the grant and loan
program to help off -set expenses.  He  advised e ven though the City  will be  the “venue” for
applying for the loan, the only indebtedness that may occur will be Granite Peak’s responsibility.
Mr. Sutherland a dvised of the a pplication and appr oval proc ess and provide d additional
information contained in the development agreement concerning Granite Peak’s responsibilities,
noting that Agenda Item #18 (Resolution) is affiliated with moving the application forward.  There
being no further comments or input and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor
Kaysen closed the hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive public comments on the following topic:
To determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402
exist for a pa rcel of land being  situated in a portion of the Nor thwest Quarter of Sec tion 13,
Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming to be known as
the CST Annexation (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of West College Drive
and Southwest Drive).  Jim Flesher, Planning and Development office, reviewed requirements and
compliance of conditions contained in Wy o. Stat. §15-1 -402, including specific information
indicating compliance with Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402(a)(i) through (vi).   Mr. F lesher advised the
parcel is proposed to be part of a redevelopment (expansion) of an existing truck stop business.
Upon inquiry, Mr. Flesher provided information on the site location relative to where the animal
shelter is located.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the public hearing
having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive public comments on the following topic:
To determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402
exist for a pa rcel of land being  situated in a portion of the N ortheast Quarter of Section 26,
Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming to be known as
the Ko ritnik Annexation (located at 3904 Whitney Road approximately 200 feet west of the
northwest corner of the intersection of Whitney Road and Countryside Avenue).  Jim Flesher,
Planning and Development office, reviewed requirements and compliance of conditions contained
in Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402, including specific information indicating compliance with Wyo. Stat.
§15-1-402(a)(i) through  (vi).  Upon inquiry , Mr. Fle sher c onfirmed the pe tition requesting
annexation was submitted by the property owner; that the parcel is approximately one acre in size,
and that the type of proposed property development action has not yet been received.  There being
no further comments or input and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen
closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE - A mending, creating, deleting  and re -creating various cha pters and
Sections within Title 8, Hea lth and Safety , of the Chey enne City  Code rela ting to g eneral
provisions pertaining to Fire Protection and Regulations, and adoption of the International Fire
Code, 2012 Edition, and certain codes  and practices promulgated by the National Fire Protection
Association (postponed from Oct. 28, 2013).  Mr. Shanor declared a conflict of interest (property
business interest) and vacated Council Chambers.  Chief Jim Martin, Fire and Rescue Department,
spoke in favor of the ordinance.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Brown moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Mr. Brown moved to amend Section
4 by replacing the current language with the following: “That this ordinance shall be in full force
and effect upon its passage and publication.”, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion to amend carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Comments were
expressed regarding retroactivity concerns, and the need to have the updated fire code in place.
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in
Council Ch ambers.  F ollowing a nnouncement o f t he vo te, M r. Sha nor r eturned to  Cou ncil
Chambers. (#4004)
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections contained in Chapters 8.20, 8.24, 8.28 and
8.32 within Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Cheyenne City Code relating to General Provisions
pertaining to Fire Protection and Regulations (postponed from Oct. 28, 2013).  Mark N orford,
Division Chief of Prevention, Fire and Rescue Department, spoke in favor of the ordinance and
explained changes contained in a proposed substitute ordinance.  Mr. Brown moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute
(dated Oct. 22, 2013), seconded by Ms. Broyles.  It was advised the substitute provides for clerical
corrections and does not change the substance of the ordinance.  Motion to amend by substitute
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Mr. Brown moved to amend
Section 6  of  the  su bstitute by re placing the  c urrent l anguage wi th t he fo llowing: “ That th is
ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and publication.”, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Main motion as amended by substitute, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present. (#4005)
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 2.32, Fire Department, Section 2.32.020, Department
Personnel, and Cha pter 2.84, Miscellaneous B oards a nd Commi ssions, S ection 2.84.050,
International Fire Code B oard of  Appea ls, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the
Cheyenne City Code pertai ning to the Fire and Rescue D epartment (postponed from Oc t. 28,
2013).  Mark Norford, Cheyenne F ire a nd Rescue, e xplained the or dinance will “clea n-up”
language and clarify the department’s organizational structure.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on
third and final r eading, seconde d by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Br own moved to amen d Section 2 by
replacing the current language with the following: “That this ordinance shall be in full force and
effect upon its passage and publication.”, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to amend carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4006)
ORDINANCE - Amending the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), as approved
by Ordinance No. 3943 on J anuary 23, 2012, to adopt amendments identified a s Election and
Ideological Sign Amendments from 2013 Annual Review.  Mark Butler commented on reasonable
restrictions with regard to election campaign signs and posed a scenario relative to neighborhood
disputes involving ideological signs.  Tim Kingston spoke in favor of the ordinance as reviewed,
discussed and amended at the Public Services Committee meeting; reviewed a past court decision
involving the City and election signs relative to time limitations; current sign provisions contained
in the UDC, and commented on freedom of speech relative to election as well as ideological signs.
Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, spoke in favor of the ordinance, referencing suggestions
for c hanges to the propose d ordinance that he had pr eviously submitt ed to g overning body
members, and protecting individual liberty and first amendment rights.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Brown moved to amend language in
Section 7 (Residential District Sign Allowances) by removing “No single sign shall be more than
6 square feet” and replacing it with “No single sign shall be more than 16 square feet”, seconded
by Ms. Wi lliams.  P ursuant to a point of inquiry  raised by  Mr. Shanor, it  was confirmed the
amendment recommended by Public Services Committee was to change 6 square feet to 16 square
feet (4x4 ft in size).  Discussion topics included: Comments in support as well as non-support of
the proposed amendment; placement of signs generally throughout the community and City Code
restrictions contained in Chapter 8.52.; large free-standing signs and placement of same; concern
with l oosening re gulations; si gn r egulations a pplicable to e lection a nd id eological si gns vs .
commercial advertising signs; large signs obstructing vehicle operators’ sight lines and potential
liability; size restrictions; enforcement concerns; public right-of-way areas vs. private property
owner’s decision to allow sign placements, and difference between election signs vs. ideological
signs.  Dur ing disc ussion and upon inquiry , Dan White, City  Attorney , advised, without
conducting further review, it would appear that the proposed ordinance changes to the UDC would
not apply to commercial signs, and that without specific facts involving an incident he could not
respond to the inquiry raised concerning determination of liability fault generally if a vehicular
accident occurred due to driver distrac tion while viewing a sig n.  Motion to amend car ried.
Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.
Voting “no” -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook and Dr. Rinne.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by deleting the
3  b ullet p oint i n S ections 7  an d 9 , ad dressing el ection s igns (Residential Di strict S ignrd
Allowances and Non-Residential District Sign Allowances respectively), that reads “No time
limitations”, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. King ston spoke in  opposition to the amendment
stating his belief that keeping the wording was “key” and that citizens should be able to choose
the length of time for sign placements.  Discussion followed on signage time and size limitations;
current UDC restrictions; election sign placement restriction near polling places as required by
state law; homeowner associations and covenant restrictions, and private property owners’ and
election candidates’ responsibilities.  During discussion and upon inquiry, Brandon Cammarata,
Planning and Development Director, explained current provisions contained in the UDC relative
to election signs being treated as temporary signs, and that the proposed ordinance would change
the omit the reference to temporary signs, and provided information on allowable signs during the
last general election year, noting that regulation of sign placements near an election polling place
was outside of the UDC as it was more strictly regulated by state statute.  Mr. White confirmed
that the restriction of election signs near polling places is a state law.  Motion to amend f ailed.
Voting “yes” -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook and Dr. Rinne.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr.
Shanor, Mr. Valdez, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by striking
Sections 8 and 10 which would remove new category sections dealing with ideological signs,
seconded by Mr. Allen.  Mr. Wiggam and Mr. Kingston spoke in opposition to the amendment,
citing freedom of speech concerns.  Buck Holmes, Laramie County Commissioner, questioned
whether the recent Laramie County Community College bond election signs would be considered
to be ideological signs with Mr. White advising under the proposed ordinance, those types of bond
election s igns wo uld be  c onsidered e lection s igns.  D iscussion c ontinued o n id eological vs .
election signs; types of messages/content that may be conveyed on ideological signs; enforcement
concerns; freedom of speech, and whether the City’s sign restrictions have been legally challenged
since the previous court case as initially referenced by Mr. Kingston.  Upon inquiry, Mr. White
referenced the past court case against the City, as noted previously by Mr. Kingston, and stated
when he reviewed the proposed ordinance he felt the UDC changes would be consistent with the
judgment that had been entered against the City in that case.  He further advised if the pending
amendment carried it would be necessary for him to go back and again review the court order and
analyze the City’s position.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles and
Dr. Rinne.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Sh anor, Mr. Valdez, Ms. Williams and
Mayor Kaysen.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook and
Dr. Rinne.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Zon ing Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density
District to MR-2 Medium Density Residential – Developing for Lots 1-10, Block 1, and Lots 1-10,
Block 2, Saddle Ridge, Sixth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the
intersection of Country side Avenue  and Medic ine Man Tr ail) --  ref erred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from A- 1 Ag ricultural a nd Rural
Residential (County) to NR-2 Ne ighborhood Residential – Medium Density  for a  replat of a
portion of Blocks 80 and 81, formerly known as Interior Heights Addition, now vacated, being
a portion of the NE¼ of Section 7, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known
as Shiraz Enclave (located east of and adjacent to Snyder Avenue, north of W. Allison Road) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Creating Cha pter 5 .78, To wing a nd Wre cker R ecovery Op erations,
Amending Chapter 5.04, Sec tion 5.04.0 30, Types of B usinesses, Activities and Eve nts, and
Chapter 5.08, Sec tion 5.08.270, Towing ( Vehicular) of  T itle 5, Business L icenses and
Regulations, and Repealing in its entirety Section 10.12.190, Towing Firm Standards, of Chapter
10.12,  Administrative and Enforcement, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City
of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Luna, Mr.
Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams).
ORDINANCE - A nnexing to the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming, a parcel of land be ing
situated in a portion of Section 13, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming to be known as the CST Annexation (located northwest of the intersection of
West College Drive and Southwest Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - A nnexing to the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming, a parcel of land be ing
situated in a portion of Section 26, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming to be know n as the Koritnik Annex ation (located at 3904 Whitney  Road
approximately 200 feet west of the northwest corner of the intersection of Whitney Road and
Countryside Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen). 
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  final plat and
development agreement for Terre Pont Subdivision, a portion of the S1/2 of Section 20, T.14N.,
R.66W., 6th P.M., C heyenne, Wyoming (located at the nor theast corner of the intersection of
Prairie Avenue and F rontier Mall Drive).  Ma rk Butler, Inberg Miller Engineering, advised a
revised agreement has been prepared and it works toward the City’s goal of future completion of
Rue Terre and storm sewer work.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt with staff  recommendation #1,
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. B rown moved to a mend by substitute (dated Nov. 12, 2013),
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry, Jim Flesher, Planning and Development office, explained
the substitute, involving changes to resolution and the agreement, now titled a memorandum of
understanding (MOU), simplifies development for the completion of Rue Terre and also changes
language for income tax purposes contained in the MOU.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as  amended by substitute carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5536 RES/#6091 CON)
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business
Council, Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for funding for the construction
of a rail spur within the Swan Ranch Industrial Park.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by
Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute resolution and revised affiliated Project
Development and Administration Agreement (dated Nov. 12, 2013), seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Mr. Shanor
moved to postpone to November 25, 2013, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Scott Sutherland, Granite Peak
Development, expressed his concerns with a postpone ment, noting the upc oming deadline for
submitting the application to the Wyoming Business Council (WBC), funding availability risk,
and concern with a delay  affecting clients they  are working with who are  affiliated with the
project.  Anya Bendel, Business Development Director, Cheyenne LEADS, voiced support for the
project and reiterated the urgency in approving the resolution as soon as possible due to WBC
funding (biennium) ava ilability concerns.  Comments followed reg arding the purpose of
postponement, which is to provide City  Council members more time t o review provisions
contained in the revised agreement, which was received on this date; item being previously vetted
through City staff, attorneys and parties involved, and concern with effect on the project due to
a delay.  Upon inquiry regarding funding of the ra il spur proposal, May or Kaysen provided
information relative to the City acting as the “conduit” for the loan, which the City, as well as the
County, has done for other types of economic development purposes and which is allowed under
state law; information on the application re commendation and approval process involving the
WBC and State Land and Investment Board, and project funding and protections to the City.  In
response to inquiry  conce rning a def ault loan pay ment scena rio, Mr. Sutherland provided
information on what Granite P eak would be p utting up as co llateral for th e lo an and W BC
involvement in any default situation, stating any default will not affect the City.  Co mments
followed on wording in the resolution that authorizes submission of the application and whether
the governing body would be presented with the opportunity to review the loan documents if the
application were approved.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, clarified the resolution, as
currently written, would authorize sig ning of  the loan docume nts in the event the loan w as
approved, however, if the governing body desires to have the loan documents presented for review
prior to signature that could be achieved through a change to the last paragraph of the resolution.
Mr. White further r eviewed sever al p rotections for the City  that have be en wr itten into the
agreement.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the governing body present.
In response to comment on the property’s location, Mr. Sutherland explained that approximately
half of the rail line will be within newly annexed city limits and half will be in the county, noting
that probable future annexation request will be made to extend additional property into the City.
Mr. Shanor moved to amend the last paragraph of the resolution beginning with “Be It Further
Resolved ...” by  inserting the lang uage “after the governing body has authorized execution”,
seconded by Mr. B rown.  I t was noted the p roposed amending language would re sult in t he
following phrase: “ ... that the Mayor, or his designated representative, after the governing body
has authorized execution, is authorized to ex ecute a grant agreement and loan documents ...”.
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” –  a ll members of the governing body present.  Main
motion as twice amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#5537 RES/ #6092 CON)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an Application to the Wyoming State Loan
and Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Clean Water State Revolving fund for an
amount not to exceed $1.3 million for engineering costs for the Phase One Southern Se wer
Interceptor Main Project and Authorizing the Mayor, City Clerk and the Director of the Board of
Public Utilities to execute the application and all related loan documents.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5538)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming to finance Specific Purpose
Sales an d Us e T ax Election p rojects i ncluding b ut n ot l imited t o t he c osts o f t he p lanning,
construction, furnishing, equipping, and acquiring materials for improvement of land, including
the Public Safety Center  and the payment of lease service payments and the costs of the financed
project, and related thereto authorizing the execution and delivery of a Purchase Agreement, as
seller, with U.S. B ank National Association, as buyer, and a lea se with option to purchase , as
lessee, with U.S. Bank National Association, as lessor, with respect to the sale and lease of certain
real property as part of a financing arrangement and ratifying, approving and  confirming previous
actions of officers and members of the Governing Body of the City and employees thereof.  Mr.
Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  During discussion, Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
explained the city has been trying to find a mechanism to fund large Specific Purpose projects,
including the Public Safety Center, prior to the collection of the entire amount of the tax.  She
provided information on proposed financing arrangements for the Public Safety Building which
will involving selling the building to U.S. Bank and leasing it back with financial arrangements
structured as a line of credit.  Staff was commended on the innovative financing mechanism being
proposed.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5539
RES/#6093 CON)
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement,
with Swan Ranch, LLC, Lot 1, Block 1, Swan Ranch Rail Park, 2  Filing, Laramie County,nd
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Valdez).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the
amount of $43,734.31 pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502 -- referred to Finance Committe (sponsor
-- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Benz Subdivision, a replat of Tract 13 and the South 186.91 feet of Tract 14, Prosser Tracts,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of Avenue C-1 and Reiner Court) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Deerhaven Subdivision, 3rd Filing, a replat of Lot 1, Block 2, Deerhaven Subdivision, 2nd Filing,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Montalto Drive
and E. Fox Farm Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Promulgating maximum approved towing rates for tows within the City
of Cheyenne when towing service is requested by the Cheyenne Police Department -- referred to
Finance Com mittee (s ponsors - - M s. B royles, Mr . L una, M r. Sha nor, M r. Valdez an d M s.
Williams).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Repealing Resolution No. 2463 and Resolution No. 2616, pertaining to
towing services standards and standards for operations, for those towing firms approved to be on
the Chey enne Police D epartment rotation call list, in their entirety  -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee (sponsors -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Requiring the Mayor to submit to the Governing Body a five-year Capital
Improvement Plan that prioritizes expenditures on capital investments by department -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen and Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - In Support of the Creation of a Presidential Youth Council that will serve
as the voice of young people across the United States -- referred to Public Services Commitee
(sponsors -- Ms. Broyles and Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A dopting the F ox Farm Corridor Plan --  referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen and Ms. Williams).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne to enter
into an agreement for the purchase of real property, described as a parcel of land generally located
east of Mounta in Road, south of Plainview Road and we st of Ch apel Hill, consisting of
approximately 121,669 square  feet (estimat ed value of  $400,000.00), fr om Highland United
Presbyterian Church for the purpose of land acquisition for a neighborhood park (Community
Facilities Fees) -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Chey enne, Police D epartment, and the State of
Wyoming Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program for mobile impaired command
post with accessories.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6089) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department, and Kaiser-Frontier
Midstream, an Oklahoma LLC, to permit limited use of the public right-of-way for the installation
of a natural gas pipeline and setting a fee.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6090)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks & Recreation Department, and Robert
Peccia & A ssociates for a Municipal Cemete ry Expansion Master Plan - - referred to F inance
Committee.
[CA] Agreement for services between the City of Cheyenne and the Church of St. Mary to define
the responsibility for ground maintenance, operations and office administration services to be
provided by City staff for the church at Olivet Cemetery -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the State of Wyoming, Office of Homeland Security,
and the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue Department, for the Gr ant Award from the United
States Depa rtment of Homela nd Security  (DHS) , Fe deral Emerg ency Manag ement Ag ency
(FEMA), Grant Program Directorate, State Homeland Secur ity Grant Program (SHGP) Fiscal
Year 2013, for  the Reg ion 7 Sta te Regional Emerg ency Response Tea m, in the amount of
$100,000.00 -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the State of Wyoming, Office of Homeland Security and
the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, for the Grant Award from the United States
Department of  Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),
Grant Program Directorate, State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHGP) Fiscal Year 2013,
for Law Enforcement and Terrorism Prevention-Oriented Activities (LETPA), in the amount of
$34,814.94 -- referred to Finance Committee.
Consideration of Bid #R-5-14 for furnishing one new mobile command unit for the City
of Chey enne, Police D epartment (L aw Enf orcement Gra nts).  L ieutenant Na than B useck,
Cheyenne Police Department, advised due to the grant amount approved (agenda item previously
approved during the meeting), staff determined they would like to upgrade the vehicle size to be
acquired with additional amenities.  He stated the unit will be used for  DUI mobile testing and
enforcement purposes, and will also be utilized for assistance to other communities, and requested
current bids be rejected to enable re-bidding with different specifications.  Mr. Brown moved to
reject all bid s, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-1-14 for the sale of surplus property described as the South 75
ft. of Lots 7 and 8, Block 229, Original City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (a/k/a 2100
Pioneer Avenue).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from Richard Cutler, DDS,
Cheyenne, in the amount of $250,000.00 (Revenue to BOPU)).
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-6-14 for  a contr act for the F iscal Year 2014 Misce llaneous
Concrete and Street Repairs Project between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department, and
S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Ta x) -- referred to Fina nce
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-9-14 for a contract for the Pioneer Park Fencing Project between
the City of Cheyenne, Parks & Recreation Department, and Waterford Corporation, Fort Collins,
Colorado (Parks Projects) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 25, 2013, at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership
for a  re tail liquor lic ense a pplication f iled w ith the  City  Cle rk's O ffice fo r Wa dsworth O ld
Chicago, Inc. d/b/a Old Chicago Resta urant, 1734 Mea dowland Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(License currently held by OC Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Old Chicago Restaurant, 1734 Meadowland
Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 25, 2013, at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership
for a  reta il liquor li cense application filed w ith the Cit y Clerk's Of fice for Hig h Plains
Entertainment, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package Liquor, 2105 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (License currently held by Wigwam, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package Liquor,
2105 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Announcement was made of the appointments of Caroline Alston, Elizabeth Babbitt, Tyler
Bedwell, Alex Cole, Alex Farkas, Alexis Ferrari, Juliette Givhan, Rachel Moseley, Emily Piel,
Kesslee Stewart, Jason W eber, and Darnell Wheeler to the Ma yor’s Youth Council, to be
confirmed November 25, 2013. 
There being no further  business t o come before the governing body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:24 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 November 25, 2013