MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-11-25 | CLIP_ID: 403 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 403

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 November 25, 2013
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor,
Mr. V aldez an d M s. Willi ams.  Al so pr esent: Ca rol I ntlekofer, City  Cle rk; L ois Hu ff, Ci ty
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the governing body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two other membe rs is rec eived.  Any  item removed f rom the Co nsent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to
support received by Mr. Allen and Dr. Rinne, Agenda Item #25 was removed from the Consent
Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Allen and Mr.
Luna, Agenda Items #21 and  #22 were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Dr.
Rinne, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Allen and Mr. Brown, Agenda Item #26 was
removed from the Consent A genda.  Mr. Allen move d to approve remaining Consent Agenda
items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body.
CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 12, 2013.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment
of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemecek, Public Works
Department, clarified a voucher payable to Doug’s Towing was for towing services involving
residents’ vehicles in a scheduled construction work area.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the
vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a transfer of
ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Wadsworth
Old Chicago, Inc. d/b/a Old Chicago Restaurant, 1734 Meadowland Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(License currently held by OC Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Old Chicago Restaurant, 1734 Meadowland
Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  There being no comments and purpose of the public hearing having
been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a transfer of
ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for High Plains
Entertainment, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package Liquor, 2105 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (License currently held by Wigwam, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package Liquor,
2105 East L incolnway, Cheyenne, Wy oming).  Upon inquiry , Br yan Gr zegorczyk, curr ent
licensee, advised Kevin Lesperance, High Plains Entertainment, Inc., is purchasing the business.
Mr. Lesperance advised he has worked in the liquor retail marketing business and is in the process
of moving to Cheyenne from Texas.  There being no further comments and purpose of the public
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance
Committee.
ORDINANCE - Amending the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), as approved
by Ordinance No. 3943 on January  23, 2012, to adopt am endments identified as Elec tion and
Ideological Sign A mendments from 2013 Annua l Rev iew.  Reporting for Public Service s
Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Mr. Allen moved to postpone to December 9, 2013, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  It was advised a
postponement will allow time to review additional information relative to proposed amendments.
Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendme nts, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density
District to MR-2 Medium Density Residential – Developing for Lots 1-10, Block 1, and Lots 1-10,
Block 2, Saddle Ridge, Sixth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the
intersection of Countryside Avenue and Medicine Man Trail).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Mr. L una.  Motion carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body.
ORDINANCE -  Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Co de, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from A- 1 Ag ricultural a nd Rural
Residential (County) to NR-2 Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density  for a  replat of a
portion of Blocks 80 and 81, formerly known as Interior Heights Addition, now vacated, being
a portion of the NE¼ of Section 7, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known
as Shiraz Enclave (located east of and adjacent to Snyder Avenue, north of W. Allison Road).  Mr.
Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Upon inquiry, Brad Emmons,
AVI Engineering and agent for the applicant, advised that currently there are no further meetings
with the neighborhood scheduled, and stated a new drainage study has been submitted as well as
an u pdated tr affic study .  H e sta ted a t th e c urrent t ime the  de veloper i s p roposing to b uild
townhouses, not single family homes.  Upon further inquiry, Mr. Emmons provided information
on drainage plans; storm sewer pipe, and possible formation of a home owners association (HOA)
to address maintenance responsibilities.  Shawn Ajdari, de veloper, advised c ovenants will be
drafted that will include homeowner’s responsibilities.  Mo tion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.
ORDINANCE -  Cr eating Cha pter 5 .78, To wing a nd Wrecker R ecovery Op erations,
Amending Chapter 5.04, Sec tion 5.04.03 0, Types of B usinesses, Activities and Eve nts, and
Chapter 5.08, Sec tion 5.08.270, Towing ( Vehicular) of  Title 5, Business L icenses and
Regulations, and Repealing in its entirety Section 10.12.190, Towing Firm Standards, of Chapter
10.12,  Administrative and Enforcement, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City
of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, provided a brief background on
the purpose of the proposed ordinance and explained the Police Department rotation call list.  He
reviewed calls for service; complaints received from citizens regarding towing charges; lack of
standardization of fees; requests from towing companies who want a “level playing field”; desire
to establish reasonable standards and rates, and meetings the Police Department has held with the
towing c ompanies and a sur vey completed by  the companie s that assisted with drafting  the
ordinance.  He reviewed various elements of the ordinance, including towing standards, response
times, state licenses a nd City  business license r equirements, operator training , storag e y ard
requirements, and time frame for vehicle “holds” relative to tows involving DUI incidents, and
advised the ordinance is based on best practices throughout the country and the towing industry.
Mike Basom, attorney representing Wyoming Professional Tow Association, spoke in opposition
to the ordinance and expressed concerns regarding legal interpretation regarding exemption from
federal r egulation; i nterpretation of  sta te sta tute re lative to a  sta te sa lvage y ard lic ense
requirement, and towing operator training.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised there
was no intention in the ordinance to grandfather existing towing firms relative to meeting the state
salvage license  require ments, and conf irmed that, under  the proposed or dinance, towing
companies must have a state salvage yard license to acquire the City business license.  In response
to q uery b y M r. B asom r egarding f requency a nd c ost o f tr aining, Ch ief K ozak p rovided
information on the frequency of Traffic Incident Management System (TIMS) training and who
would be trained, stating the Police Department will provide training at no cost to participants and
that owners/participants attending can the n train others.  Jodi S hea, attorney with Pence a nd
MacMillan, representing I-80 Towing and its affiliate towing companies, requested the ordinance
be tabled for further discussion.  She commented on day to day effects on towing companies the
ordinance will have, including financial concerns; safe, effective and efficient services; fees for
services, and common goals for improvements.  Ms. Shea proposed alternative solutions involving
tabling of the ordinance to allow towers to address issues and enable additional communication
efforts, and developing a committee to evaluate complaints, identify issues and propose solutions
to concerns that have been r aised.  Ms. Shea f urther discussed issues she fe lt need to be r e-
addressed, including fee schedules; requirement of being open four hours on weekends; forms of
payment for services; vehicle “hold” time; salvage license requirement, and personal property
contents within towed vehicles.  Randy  L eBeaumont, Randy’s Towing ; Bob Cairns, Rocky
Mountain Towing; Lawrence Anaya; M. Lee Hasenauer, Laramie County Commissioner; Todd
Brown, T &  T Auto Center, a nd Thomas Mullan, For t Towing an d I-80 Towing, expressed
concerns with the proposed ordinance and resolution setting a fee schedule for those on the Police
Department’s rotation ca ll lis t.  T opics discussed included: Opposition to the ordinanc e;
opposition to affiliated rate setting resolution; financial effect on company operations; differing
fees for certain scenarios involving towing services; uniformity and support for small businesses;
storage lot zoning and c ompliance; cur rent police  rotation list requirements a nd reg ulating
companies through rotation list enforcement; allowing towing companies to work together to
address issues and concerns; support for postponement and formation of a committee to study and
offer solutions to i ssues of conc ern, and upcoming meeting (invitation ex tended to g overning
body, law enforcement and others interested) of local towing companies to revamp the towers’
group and further discuss the proposed ordinance and call list rate resolution.  Speaking in favor
of the ordinance were Jaymi Lambert and Candy Kelch, citing personal experiences with high fees
for towing services, and Russ Fleetwood, M & F Towing, and Kathy Julius, Doug’s Towing, who
noted the ordinance is the result of bad towing practices by a few companies and commented in
support of providing some type of guidelines, standardization, and review of towing fees assessed
by some companies to prevent overcharging for services.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr.
Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to
amend b y s ubstitute, s econded b y M r. V aldez.  U pon in quiry, L t. M ark M unari, Po lice
Department, advised changes contained in the substitute were at the request of towing company
representatives, and re viewed the changes in the propose d substitute that involve insertion of
“Whereas” clauses explaining the purpose of the ordinance,  and mandated training requirement.
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception
of Mr. Cook and Mr. Luna voting “no”.  Ensuing discussion on the main motion, as amended,
included the f ollowing topics: Support for a ddressing towing se rvices concerns to protec t the
community; elements of the ordinance involving timely response, types of payment allowed, and
salvage y ard r equirements; reg ulation of ce rtain towing  service s; stand ardizing towing f ees
through a reasonable rate structure for those on the rotation call list; current towing companies
being allowed to remain on the rotation list based on complaints that have been received; issue
of towing service fees being discussed at the state level; providing the towing association/group
the opportunity to offer suggestions on issues of concern that have been raised; storage of vehicles
relative to state statute, and working toward solutions through collaboration efforts.  In response
to query d uring d iscussion, Ch ief K ozak a dvised c urrently th ere is  n o a uthority to  e nforce
standards as it is s et through a resolution, not an ordinance; provided information on how the
proposed fee schedule rates (affiliated resolution) were derived and how future rate changes may
be made (through the governing body), and explained the current business license requirement
relative to rates that the applicant has to submit.  Main motion to approve on second reading, as
amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - A nnexing to the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming, a parcel of land be ing
situated in a portion of Section 13, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming to be known as the CST Annexation (located northwest of the intersection of
West College Drive and Southwest Drive).  M r. Allen moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - A nnexing to the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming, a parcel of land being
situated in a portion of Section 26, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming to be know n as the Kor itnik Annexation (located at 3904 Whitney  Road
approximately 200 feet west of the northwest corner of the intersection of Whitney Road and
Countryside Avenue).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Authorizing the issuance by the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, of a 2013
Refunding Revenue Water Note, in a maximum principal amount of $8,740,000 and an interest
rate of 2.41% and a maturity date of not to exceed December 1, 2025, for the purpose of advance
refunding a portion of the refunding Revenue Water Bonds, Series 2007; prescribing the form of
said 2013 note; providing for the payment of the 2013 note and the interest thereon; authorizing
the execution and delivery by the City of the 2013 note, and the sale of such 2013 note to BOKF,
NA d/b/a Colorado State B ank and T rust, a pay ing agent and r egistrar agreement, an e scrow
agreement, closing  documents and a ny other doc uments nece ssary in co nnection therewith;
ratifying certain action heretofore taken and providing other details in connec tion therewith --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
ORDINANCE - Amending Note 2 of the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation Fee Schedule
established by Ordinance No. 3982 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and
Mr. Shanor).
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water/Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement,
with Swan Ranch, LLC, Lot 1, Block 1, Swan Ranch Rail Park, 2  Filing, Laramie County,nd
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5540)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the
amount of $43,734.31 pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5541)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion  (per Consent Age nda)
carried. (#5542)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Benz Subdivision, a replat of Tract 13 and the South 186.91 feet of Tract 14, Prosser Tracts,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of Avenue C-1 and Reiner Court).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5543)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Deerhaven Subdivision, 3rd Filing, a replat of Lot 1, Block 2, Deerhaven Subdivision, 2nd Filing,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Montalto Drive
and E. Fox Farm Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5544)
RESOLUTION - Promulgating maximum approved towing rates for tows within the City
of Cheyenne when towing service is requested by the Cheyenne Police Department.  Lt. Mark
Munari, Police Department, explained research conducted regarding rates for different towing
services a round th e c ountry, a nd sta ted th e ma ximum pr oposed r ates f or no rmal tows is a
reasonable a mount, noting that only  those towing  companies w ho wish to be on the Police
Department rotation call list will have to comply with the set rates.  He provided information on
elements involved in different types of tows, and discussed meetings that had been held with
towing representatives to receive input on the proposed new ordinance and affiliated rat e
regulation.  Jodi Sh ea, attorney with Pence and MacMillan, representing I-80 Towing and its
affiliate towing companies; Thomas Mullan, I-80 Towing; Shane Swett, A-1 Recovery, Laramie,
and Bob Cairns, Rocky  Mountain Towing , expressed conc erns with propose d imposit ion of
maximum fees that could be assessed by towing companies for services requested through the
Police Department call list.  Discussion topics included:  Different towing scenarios; regulation
not being necessary; favorable reputation of the majority of towing firms providing local services;
flexibility provided in proposed rates for adjustments due to towing circumstances; review of rates
for different types of tows and equipment involved; current City regulations; insurance and vehicle
owners' option to file claims with insurance c arriers to cove r towing costs; conseque nces and
expenses to towing companies when vehicle owners fail to pay, and current requirements to be
eligible for placement on the Police Department rotation call list.  During comments, Lt. Munari
provided information on fee schedules submitted by towing firms per current City resolution in
place and the difference enforcement-wise between an ordinance and a resolution; reviewed other
communities' towing rates, and stated that the new proposed affiliated towing ordinance will not
force any company to be on the department call list.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.
Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone to December 9, 2013, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  It was
advised postponement will allow for action on the item to coincide  with the next age nda item
(Resolution repealing towing services standards) and the proposed towing ordinance acted upon
earlier in the meeting.  Pursuant to inquiry by Mr. Mullan regarding the postponement process
Mayor Kaysen advised if the motion to postpone passed, the r esolution, along with the next
agenda item if it also we re approved to be postponed, would be reviewed at the next Finance
Committee meeting, which would be on December 2nd beginning at 11:00 a.m. in meeting Room
122, and verified the meeting is open to the public.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting "yes" --
all members of the governing body.
RESOLUTION - Repealing Resolution No. 2463 and Resolution No. 2616, pertaining to
towing services standards and standards for operations, for those towing firms approved to be on
the Cheyenne Police Department rotation call list, in their entirety.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone to December 9, 2013, seconded by Mr.
Valdez.  I t was advised postponement will allow for ac tion on the item to coincide with the
previous agenda item and the proposed towing ordinance.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting
"yes" -- all members of the governing body.
Following a ten minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:13 p.m.
RESOLUTION - Requiring the Mayor to submit to the Governing Body a five-year Capital
Improvement Plan that prioritizes expenditures on capital investments by department.  Mr. Brown
reported there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Comment followed on the purpose of the resolution, which
is to identify capital projects, funding, and prioritization of projects as an ongoing plan.  Motion
carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body. (#5545)
[CA] RESOLUTION - In Support of the Creation of a Presidential Youth Council that will serve
as the voice of young people across the United States.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5546)
RESOLUTION - Adopting the Fox Farm Corridor Plan.  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty
Group, expressed his belief that ther e may be a pote ntial property rights issue and sug gested
conditioning approval of the  plan upon additional input being  obtained fr om applicable land
owners with regard to any future improvements, as noted in the plan, at the intersection of Fox
Farm Rd., Morrie Ave. and Avenue C.  Kevin Burke, Holly Frontier, advised if the option of a
roundabout is implemented in the future at the Fox Farm and Avenue C intersection, it will not
allow for certain truck traffic (long trucks with trailers) to navigate through it enroute to/from the
refinery and if that traffic were re-routed to the alternate routes it would affect traffic flows and
delays.  Mr. Burke advised if the intersection were to be controlled, it should be through use of
a lighted intersection.  M. L ee Hasenauer, Laramie County Commissioner and member of the
South S ide Deve lopment Boa rd, advised ne ighbors in the are a ar e ag ainst any  proposed
roundabout, and stated the County Commissioners approved the plan with recommendations and
requested City Council approve with the same recommendations.  Commissioner Hasenauer also
offered suggestions on other portions of the plan involving bike lanes and traffic flow.  Mr. Allen
moved to adopt, sec onded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Shanor  moved to amend by  substitute dated
11/25/13, seconded by Mr. Allen.  It was advised the proposed amendment includes 3 conditions,
2 of which are identical to those adopted by the County Commissioners, and would also provide
(condition #3) that the governing body reserves the right to deviate from the plan.  Tom Mason,
MPO Director, advised that Tom Cobb and Brad Emmons, AVI Engineering, assisted with the
corridor plan; clar ified the City  Planning Commission recommende d adoption of the plan a s
presented (without any amendments), and expressed his opinion that condition #3 may  not be
needed as wording in the Resolution's Be It Resolved clause indicates the plan, if adopted, would
be a "guide" for future corridor improvements.  Tom Cobb, AVI, advised the plan does not make
a recommendation for the Avenue C intersection, leaving options open for further evaluation, and
indicated information in the plan on truck routes, as referenced by Mr. Burke, was obtained from
Holly Frontier.  During comments, Mr. Brown raised a point of order that discussion pertain to
the topic affiliated with the motion to amend on the floor with Mayor Kaysen concurring.  Mr.
Wiggam spoke in support of the f irst two conditions in the proposed motion to amend, a nd
Commissioner Hasenauer commented on truck traffic in the corridor affecting small businesses.
Mr. Brown raised another point of order that discussion remain germaine to the motion to amend
with Mayor Kaysen concurring.  Mayor Kaysen reviewed the content of the 3 conditions in the
proposed amendment.  Discussion included the following topics:  Additional time to review the
topics contained in the proposed amendment and procedural review by the City Attorney; oral vs.
written a mendments; in tent o f t he c onditions; s idewalk safety; tr affic vo lume; bi ke la nes;
corridor's location within the City and County, and City and County involvement in determining
corridor improvements.  Upon inquiry regarding the Fox Far m corridor's location, Mr. Mason
stated that of the portion included in the study approximately 70% of the existing corridor is in
the County and 30% is within the City.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting "yes" -- Mr. Allen, Mr.
Cook, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Willi ams.  Voting "no" -- Mr. B rown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Luna, Dr.
Rinne, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Comment followed on conc erns with the r oundabout
option, bike path safety and beautification of the area.  Main motion failed (tie vote).  Voting "yes"
-- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Shanor and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting "no" -- Mr. Allen,
Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.   Under other business later in the meeting,
Dr. Rinne moved to reconsider the action taken on the main motion, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, confirmed Dr. Rinne had voted on the prevailing side
and was eligible to make the motion, and read the entitlement of the Resolution for the record.
Buck Holmes, Laramie County Commissioner, expressed support for the motion.  Following brief
discussion on the purpose of reconsideration, motion to reconsider carried.  Voting "yes" -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Luna and Ms. Williams voting "no."
Ms. Broyles moved to adopt the resolution, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Following comment that past
practice of the  g overning body  h as been to postpone items that have bee n approve d for
reconsideration under other  business, Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to Dec ember 9, 2013,
seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mr. Luna voting "no".  Mayor Kaysen advised the item would be back
before the Public Services Committee at its December 3, 2013 meeting which begins at noon in
Room 122.
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk of the City of Cheyenne to enter
into an agreement for the purchase of real property, described as a parcel of land generally located
east of Mounta in Road, south of Plainview Road and we st of Chapel Hill, con sisting of
approximately 121,669 square  feet (estimated value  of $4 00,000.00), from Highland United
Presbyterian Church for the purpose of land acquisition for a neighborhood park (Community
Facilities Fees).  F rank Cole, president, United Western Corporation, spoke in o pposition to
acquiring the land for a park.  He noted parks, open spaces and school grounds currently in the
vicinity and discussed pending plans for new parks/open spaces affiliated with detention/drainage
areas, and expressed concern with the cost of purchasing the property.  Mr. Brown moved to
adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  D iscussion included the following topics:  Unavailability to
utilize school grounds at times; recreational needs of the Buffalo Ridge neighborhood and concern
with park amenities as part of detention ponds, and area population density.  Upon inquiry, Rick
Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, provided information on resources relative to operation and
maintenance costs and staffing; PlanCheyenne identifying the need for a neighborhood park in the
area; opportunity to acquire the property, and plans to apply for a grant to assist with development
of the p ark.  Motion carried.  Voting   "y es" -- a ll members of the g overning body with the
exception of Mr. Luna voting "no". (Res#5547/Cont#6096)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for Recreational Trails
Program (RTP) funds to enhance the North Cheyenne Community Park Trail System -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne).
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Shiraz
Enclave, a replat of a portion of Blocks 80 and 81, formerly known as Interior Heights Addition,
now vacated, being a portion of the NE¼ of Section 7, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P .M., Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Snyder Avenue, north of West Allison Road) -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle
Ridge, Sixth Filing, a replat of Lot 14, Block 1, Saddle Ridge, Fifth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southw est corner of the intersection of Countryside Avenue and Medicine Man
Trail) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to lease, with an option
to purchase, s anitation, r ecycling a nd la ndfill e quipment - - r eferred to  F inance Co mmittee
(sponsors -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water
Conservation F und Grant for a neig hborhood par k in Buff alo Ridge  -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks & Recreation Department, and Robert
Peccia & Associates for a Municipal Cemetery Expansion Master Plan.  Motion (per C onsent
Agenda) carried. (#6097)
[CA] Agreement for services between the City of Cheyenne and the Church of St. Mary to define
the responsibility for ground maintenance, operations and office administration services to be
provided by City staff for the church at Olivet Cemetery.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#6098)
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the State of Wyoming, Office of Homeland Security,
and the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue Department, for the Gr ant Award from the United
States Depa rtment of Homela nd Security  (DHS ), Feder al Emerg ency Manag ement Ag ency
(FEMA), Grant Program Directorate, State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHGP) Fiscal
Year 2013, for  the Reg ion 7 State Reg ional Emerg ency Response Team , in the amount of
$100,000.00.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6099)
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the State of Wyoming, Office of Homeland Security and
the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, for the Grant Award from the United States
Department of  Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),
Grant Program Directorate, State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHGP) Fiscal Year 2013,
for Law Enforcement and Terrorism Prevention-Oriented Activities (LETPA), in the amount of
$34,814.94.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6100)
[CA] Contract between Wyoming Department of Family Services, Social Services Division,
Laramie County, and the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives Division, for in-home
support and mentoring services to under-served families to strengthen the ability of parents to
provide supportive care for their children -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to  Contract No. 5910 between the City of Cheyenne and
WINHealth Partners for a premium rate increase to the City Employee Health Coverage Plan --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-6-14 for  a contr act for the F iscal Year 2014 Misce llaneous
Concrete and Street Repairs Project between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department, and
S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax ).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $604,150.70). (#6101)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-9-14 for a contract for the Pioneer Park Fencing Project between
the City of Cheyenne, Parks & Recreation Department, and Waterford Corporation, Fort Collins,
Colorado (Parks Projec ts).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried ( amount not to ex ceed
$57,385.00). (#6102)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-10-14 for furnishing one new rotary mower and to trade in a 1999
Jacobsen rough mower for Parks & Recreation Department, Golf Division (Capital Equipment
fund) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Appointments of Caroline Alston, Elizabeth Ba bbitt, Tyler Bedwell, Alex Cole, Alex
Farkas, Alexis Ferrari, J uliette Givhan, Rac hel Moseley, Emily Piel, Kesslee Stewa rt, J ason
Weber, and Darnell Wheeler to the May or’s Youth Council.  Mr.Shanor move d to approve ,
seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body with
the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne
at the February 26, 2014 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Business  Meeting -- referred
to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 9, 2013, at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership
for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Texas Roadhouse
Holdings, LLC d/b/a/ Texas Roadhouse, 1931 Bluegrass Circle, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License
currently held by Texas Roadhouse of Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Texas Roadhouse, 1931 Bluegrass
Circle, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Announcement was made  of the Appointments of Kimber ley Withers to the
Cheyenne/Laramie Cou nty Ec onomic De velopment Joi nt P owers Board; Jef fie J. Wig gins-
McMullen to the Fire Civil Service Commission; Richard Bryant and Katherine Palmer to the
Historic Preser vation Boa rd; Lt. R ob Da foe a nd Mo nique Me ese to t he L aramie Cou nty
Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board; Mary E. Richey and Edwin G. Avery to the
Mayor’s Council for People  with Di sabilities; S cott D. Roy bal to the Police Civil S ervice
Commission; Tere nce Roke r to the Public Transit Advisory  Boa rd; Victoria F ry and Gr eg
Palmquist to the City  Planning Com mission; John D. Hall and Jody  Shields to t he Board of
Adjustments, and Jared S. Olsen to the Housing and Community Development Advisory Council,
to be confirmed December 9, 2013.
Announcement was made  of the Re- appointments of Ke n McCann to the Chey enne
Regional Airport Board; Mark Archer, M.J. Gertsch and Noel R. Griffith Jr.  to the Contractor
Licensing Board; Ray Fertig, Jr., Nicholas Pickering and Darin Westby to the Building  Code
Board of Appeals; Gene Palen to the Historic Preservation Board; Gregory Crisp, Howard A. Hill
Sr., Mark E. McKay and JoAnne Weigand to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities;
Sue Mecca and Rita Watson to the Personnel Commission; Marc Woods and Gene MacDonald
to the City Planning Commission, and Stephen M. Ganison, April Matthie and Carol Slane to the
Housing and Community Development Advisory Council, to be confirmed December 9, 2013.
Under other business, motion to reconsider  Agenda Item #25 carried - refer to minutes
section above (re: Resolution Adopting the Fox Farm Corridor Plan).
Appreciation w as e xpressed to  Ma yor Ka ysen f or pr oviding in formation to  Cou ncil
members on pr oposed appointee s and re -appointees to various  boards and committees a s
announced on the meeting agenda.
There being no further  business to come before the g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 9:13 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 9, 2013