MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-12-09 | CLIP_ID: 405 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 405

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 December 9, 2013
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor
and Ms. Williams.  Absent:   Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to
be routine items by  the governing body and will be ena cted by one motion.  There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support
by two other membe rs is rec eived.  Any  item removed f rom the Co nsent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to
support received by Mr. Allen and Mr. Cook, Agenda Items #19 and 20 were removed from the
Consent Agenda.  Mr. Allen moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 25, 2013.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr.
Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a transfer of
ownership for a r etail liquor license a pplication filed with the City  Clerk's Office for Texas
Roadhouse Holdings, LLC d/b/a/ Texas Roadhouse, 1931 Bluegrass Circle, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(License currently held by Texas Roadhouse of Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Texas Roadhouse, 1931
Bluegrass Circle, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  There being no comments and purpose of the public
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance
Committee.
ORDINANCE - Amending the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), as approved
by Ordinance No. 3943 on Ja nuary 23, 2012, to adopt amendments identified a s Election and
Ideological Sign Amendments from 2013 Annual Review.  Expressing their concerns with the
proposed ordinance were:  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group; Tim Bieligk; Taylor Haynes;
Tim Kingston; Jennifer Horvath, American Civil Liberties Association; James Perrott Macneil;
Paige Smith and M. Lee Hasenauer, Laramie County Commissioner.  Topics of concern included:
Censuring free speech; limiting use of private property; first amendment rights; aesthetics vs. the
U.S. c onstitution; op position to a ny e fforts t o r estrict or  re gulate fr ee sp eech a nd/or pr ivate
property rights; placement and size of signs; past court case challenging the City’s restriction on
signs and time limits for placement; addressing safety concerns large or multiple signs may pose
through other means; potential offensiveness of ideological sign contents and personal property,
safety and neighborhood effect.  Mr. Wiggam, Mr. Kingston and Ms. Horvath spoke in support
of passing  the ordinanc e as a pproved on seco nd reading.  Re porting for Public Service s
Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Mr. Allen moved to amend by substitute ordinance (stamp date 12/6/2013), seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Mr.  Allen noted that Public Service Committee member s also supported that the
governing body consider other proposals or recommendations that staff or anyone else may bring
forward prior to approval of the ordinance on third and final reading.  Review of changes in the
proposed substitute was provided.  Mr. Wiggam spoke in opposition to the proposed amendment,
reiterating his support for the ordinance as approved on second reading.  Comment followed on
the initial intent of ordinance changes to address the number of signs on private property and size
of signs involving election and ideological signs, and suggestion of postponement of the item for
further review.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body
present.  Mr. Allen moved to postpone to December 23, 2013, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Speaking
against the motion to postpone were:  Mr. Macneil, Mr. Wiggam and Commissioner Hasenauer.
Ms. Smith spoke in support of postponement.  Discussion followed regarding constitutionality
concerns; applicable sign permits; content of ideological sign messages and potential effect on
property values and neighborhoods, and comments in support of postponement.  Upon inquiry
regarding required sign pe rmits, Mayor Kaysen advised the re currently is no sign per mit/fee
required for placement of election and ideological signs.  Motion to post pone carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
Mayor Kaysen not ed that the item will be back before the Public Services Committee at its
December 17, 2013 meeting, which begins at 12:00 p.m. in Room 122 , Municipal Building, and
at the December 23, 2013 governing body meeting for final reading, which begins at 6:00 p.m.,
City Council Chambers, and that all meetings are open to the public.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendme nts, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density
District to MR-2 Medium Density Residential – Developing for Lots 1-10, Block 1, and Lots 1-10,
Block 2, Saddle Ridge, Sixth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the
intersection of Countryside Avenue and Medicine Man Trail).  James Perrot Macneil commented
on his family ’s ancestry, providing a handout relating to same (on f ile with the City  Clerk’s
office), and expressed his belief the current property owner is not the rightful owner.  Mr. Allen
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4007)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5 .1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, chang ing the  zoning classific ation from A- 1 Ag ricultural a nd Rural
Residential (County) to NR-2 Ne ighborhood Residential – Medium Density  for a  replat of a
portion of Blocks 80 and 81, formerly known as Interior Heights Addition, now vacated, being
a portion of the NE¼ of Section 7, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known
as Shiraz Enclave (located east of and adjacent to Snyder Avenue, north of W. Allison Road).  Mr.
Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry, Brad
Emmons, AVI and agent for applicant, provided information on surrounding and adjacent property
uses, and identified the difference between town homes and twin homes.  Ms. Williams requested
it be noted for the record that information contained in the table titled “Surrounding Land Uses”,
included in the backup staff report for the item, may not have been presented accurately regarding
surrounding land uses.  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#4008)
ORDINANCE -  C reating C hapter 5 .78, T owing a nd W recker R ecovery O perations,
Amending Chapter 5.04, Section 5.04.030, Ty pes of B usinesses, Activities and Eve nts, and
Chapter 5.08, Sec tion 5.08.270, Towing ( Vehicular) of  Titl e 5, B usiness L icenses and
Regulations, and Repealing in its entirety Section 10.12.190, Towing Firm Standards, of Chapter
10.12,  Administrative and Enforcement, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City
of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, referenced remarks he had made
and information he previously provided at the last City Council meeting.  He noted procedural
changes that will be made, if the ordinance is approved, including compilation of an inventory of
personal property within vehicles being towed through the Police Department rotation call list
requests, and formation of a c ommittee to recommend future changes.  He also explained the
purpose of  including pr oof of a  state salva ge yard license in c onjunction with application
requirements to obtain the City business license.  Jodi Shea, attorney with Pence and MacMillan,
representing I -80 Towing  and its aff iliate companies, discussed  issues that they  would like
addressed, such as formation of a committee now and not in the future and the requirement that
a state salvage yard license must be obtained, and requested postponement of the ordinance to
further work on the issues.  Ms. Shea noted the inve ntory of per sonal property, as mentioned
previously by Chief Kozak, was appropriate and that the “holding” time of vehicles for incidents
involving DUI’s will include a form provided by the Police Department relative to release of a
vehicle.  Taylor Haynes spoke against the regulation of towing fees by the City and suggested
requiring towing companies to publish their entire list of fees as an alternative.  James Perrott
Macneil recited a personal towing incident and commented on towing fees, suggesting fees be
within a range and not absolutely set.  Mike Basom, attorney representing Randy LeBeaumont
(Randy’s Towing) and Wyoming Professional Tow Association, re ferenced statements he had
made at the previous City Council and Finance Committee meetings and spoke against imposition
of the state salvage yard license requirement and regulation of towing fees, commenting on the
burden to towing companies regarding same.  He urged the ordinance be withdrawn and that the
process start over, expressing his belief the consideration process had been flawed as a substantial
amount of information relative to the ordinance had been provided by the Assistant City Attorney,
who, according to Mr. Basom’s records and the State Bar Association, is not a member of the state
bar.  M. Lee Hasenauer, Laramie County Commissioner, spoke against setting mandated fees for
private business and in support of postponement of the ordinance.  Thomas Mullan, I-80 Towing,
expressed his opinion that past communications with law enforcement on the towing topic had not
been effective; stated definitions for essential and non- essential tows should be provide d, and
commented on complaints that had been received at the local vs. state level.  Russ Fleetwood, M
& F  Towing , rela ted his experience  in timely  obtaining his st ate salvage y ard lice nse and
expressed his understanding of the purpose of the ordinance.  Upon request by Mayor Kaysen,
Dan White, City  Attorney , clar ified the Assist ant City  Attorney ’s profe ssional status and
qualifications, and reviewed Wyoming Rules of Prof essional Conduct regarding specific rules
allowing limited forms of practice by in-house counsel.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr.
Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Mr. Brown moved
to amend by substitute ordinance (stamp date 12/02/2013), seconded by Mr. Allen.  It was noted
that changes in the substitute pertained to adding “Towing vehicle” in Section 5.78.040, B., 4.,
a., and affiliated clerical corrections.  Brief comment followed by Ms. Shea and Mr. Macneil.  Mr.
Brown raised a point of order that comments remain germane to the motion on the floor with
Mayor Kaysen concurring.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members
of the governing body present.  Ms. Broyles moved to amend by a second substitute ordinance
(stamp date 12/5/2013), seconded by Mr. Allen.  It was noted the substitute contains the changes
approved in the previous substitute and also changes wording in Section 5.78.040, B., 4., g., that
addresses conc erns that ha d been r aised re garding towing c ompanies ava ilability to acc ept
payments on wee kends.  Discussion included the f ollowing topics: Concern with towing
companies’ availability to accept weekend payments through business offices being open vs. by
telephone; additional charges that may imposed; vehicle owners having weekend communication
information to contac t a towing  co mpany, and addressing complaints that may  arise.  U pon
inquiry, Chief Kozak provided information on how he envisioned retrieval of vehicles would
occur on weekends, and the process that would be used to address complaints.  Motion to amend
by second substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no.”  Discussion followed on the purpose of requiring proof of a
state salvage yard license in conjunction with the City  business li cense; storage of abandoned
vehicles vs. tows a nd vehicl e storage conduc ted pursuant to re quest throug h the Police
Department’s r otation c all l ist; z oning c oncerns r elative t o s alvage ya rds w ithin t he C ity;
percentage of non-consent tows vs. towing of abandoned vehicles; interpretation of state statute
section requiring a salvage yard license, and vehicle owner notifications.  Providing information
on topics raised were Chief Kozak, Ms. Shea and Mr. Basom.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend the
previously approved second substitute by  striking the f ollowing phrase contained in Sec tion
5.78.030, B. 2.: “including a copy of a current and valid vehicle salvage yard storage and disposal
facility license as requ ired under Wyo. Stat. Section 31-13-114, evidencing compliance with
applicable rules and regulations”, and by striking Section 5.78.040 B. 1. in its entirety, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Speaking on the proposed a mendment were: Dave Rose, Big Al’s Towing; Mr.
Fleetwood, Mr. Basom and Mr. Mullan.  Topics presented included: Process to acquire the state
salvage storage yard license; support for the amendment, and purpose of the state license.  During
discussion, information was provide d by  Chief Kozak re garding inform ation that must be
maintained by those holding the state salvage yard license relative to Federal Theft Act reporting
requirements, and Mr. White responded to inquiry regarding wording contained in Wyo. Statute
Section 31-13-112 (a), noting the salvage yard license would appear to provide  towing/storage
companies with an additional layer of liability protection.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes”
– Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” – Mr. Allen, Mr.
Brown, Ms. Broyles and Mayor Kaysen.  Discussion followed on the main motion as amended and
included the following topics: Insurance requirements affiliated with the City business license;
City RFP (request for proposals) process vs. utilization of a rotation call list for requesting towing
services; expectations of services, and potential committee formation to review future changes to
the ordinance and f ee schedule (affiliated resolution) that may  be desired.  Main motion as
amended (3 times) carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4009)
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:25 p.m.
ORDINANCE - A nnexing to the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming, a parcel of land be ing
situated in a portion of Section 13, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming to be known as the CST Annexation (located northwest of the intersection of
West College Drive and Southwest Dr ive).  James Perrot Mac neil spoke in opposition to t he
annexation or re-zoning of the land due to ownership concerns.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on
third and final r eading, seconde d by Ms. Broy les.  Comment was made tha t Mr. Macne il’s
statements involved issues outside of the governing body’s authority.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4010)
ORDINANCE - A nnexing to the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming, a parcel of land be ing
situated in a portion of Section 26, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming to  be known as the K oritnik Annexation (located at 3904 Whitney  Road
approximately 200 feet west of the nor thwest corner of the interse ction of Whitney Road and
Countryside Avenue).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4011)
ORDINANCE - Authorizing the issuance by the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, of a 2013
Refunding Revenue Water Note, in a maximum principal amount of $8,740,000 and an interest
rate of 2.41% and a maturity date of not to exceed December 1, 2025, for the purpose of advance
refunding a portion of the refunding Revenue Water Bonds, Series 2007; prescribing the form of
said 2013 note; providing for the payment of the 2013 note and the interest thereon; authorizing
the execution and delivery by the City of the 2013 note, and the sale of such 2013 note to BOKF,
NA d/b/a Colorado State B ank and Trust, a pa ying agent and r egistrar agreement, an esc row
agreement, closing  documents and a ny other doc uments necessary in connec tion therewith;
ratifying certain action heretofore taken and providing other details in connection therewith.  Mr.
Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Amending Note 2 of the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation Fee Schedule
established by Ordinance No. 3982.  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Department, explained the
ordinance provides for a definition of the word “building” relative to c larification needed to
address inequities involving fee assessments for sanitation services.  Mr. Brown moved to approve
on second r eading, seconded by Mr. L una.  Upon inquiry , Jim Elias, Publ ic Works Direc tor,
provided information on monthly service fees for apartments, multi-plexes, and assisted living
facilities, and those responsible for service payments involving abandoned properties.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to S ection 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from NB Neighborhood Business to NR-2
Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density for Lots 15 and 16, Block 17, Crest Ridge, 4th
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Storey Boulevard, between Canyon
and Ridge Roads) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Purs uant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential
– Established and MUR Mix ed Use Residential Emphasis to M UR Mixed Use Residential
Emphasis for the N1/2 of Lot 2, and all of Lots 3 & 4, Block 236, Original City (to be known as
Keefe Cottag es Subdivision), Chey enne, Wy oming ( located a t the southeast corne r of the
intersection of Evans Ave nue and E . 22nd Street) - - re ferred to Public Service s Commi ttee
(sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential-
Established to MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for Lot 1, and the East 34-feet of Lot 2, Block
382, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of
Pebrican Avenue and E. 17  Street) -- referred to Public S ervices Committee (sponsor -- Mr.th
Allen).
RESOLUTION - Promulgating maximum approved towing rates for tows within the City
of Cheyenne when towing service is requested by the Chey enne Police D epartment.  Tay lor
Haynes requested the g overning body proceed with ca ution regarding the setting of fe es and
suggested companies instead be  required to publish t heir rates. John Allis ex plained a r ecent
personal incident involving tow truck services relative to rates charged and payment options, and
spoke in favor of the resolution.  Jody Shea, attorney with Pence and MacMillan, representing I-80
Towing and its affiliate towing companies, advised there is no guarantee that tow companies will
receive payment for non-consensual tows and spoke in opposition to set rates as proposed in the
resolution, stating the police chief has the option of reviewing rates and enforcing provisions that
may allow removal of a towing company from the police department call list.  James Perrott
Macneil commented in support of reasonable rates, and Thomas Mullan, I-80 Towing stated he
would rather work “with” not “for” the City.  Russ Fleetwood, M&F Towing, spoke in support
of the  resolution e stablishing rates.   Mr . Brown mov ed to  a dopt, se conded b y Ms.  Broyles.
Discussion topics included: Additional fees that towing companies may assess under extenuating
circumstances; reasonable maximum base fees for services; fees to be assessed only applicable
to those providing se rvices throug h the Police Depa rtment’s rotation ca ll lis t; voluntary
contractual arrangement between the companies on the call list and the City, and rate changes that
can be made in the future.  Upon inquiry, Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, clarified the
ordinance approved previously during the current meeting will assist with enforcement and the
proposed r esolution assists wit h the deter mination of rea sonable maximum  fee s that can be
charged by those towing companies on the police rotation call list.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present. (#5548) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Repealing Resolution No. 2463 and Resolution No. 2616, pertaining to
towing services standards and standards for operations, for those towing firms approved to be on
the Cheyenne Police Department rotation call list, in their entirety.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt,
seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body
present. (#5549)
RESOLUTION - Adopting the Fox Farm Corridor Plan.  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty
Group, reiterated concerns he had expressed at the last meeting regarding property owner rights
involving any potential property acquisition at the interse ction of F ox Farm Rd., Morrie a nd
Avenue C for future improvements.  James Perrott Macneil commented on his residence in the
area.  Mr. B rown raised a point of orde r that comment s remain germane to the subjec t of the
motion on the floor with Mayor Kaysen concurring.  Mr. Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Mr. Allen moved to amend by substitute (stamp date 12/4/13), seconded by Mr. Cook.
It was advised the proposed substitute adds three conditions as follows:  (1) That the intersection
of Fox Farm and Avenue C be further reviewed and analyzed over time so as to determine a final
design that improves the overall function of the intersection and corridor for all users, including
trucks.  The a bility to continue to service  larg e truc ks in the are a is important.  The fina l
intersection design should however balance the safety of truck drivers using the corridor, students
using the existing Safe Routes to School pathway to Arp Elementary School, and residents of the
Fox Farm neighborhood.  (2) That the buffered bike lanes proposed on Fox Farm Road be re-
analyzed prior to construction so that the safety of bicyclists is considered and adequate separation
is provided to other modes from truck traffic on this corridor.  (3) The governing body hereby
reserves the right to deviate from the Fox Farm Road Corridor Plan.  Comments followed in
support as well as non-support of the proposed amendment; support for the overall corridor plan
and inclusion of conditions t o mirror a ction approve d by  the County  Commi ssioners, and
opposition to a potential roundabout in the future.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne and Mayor
Kaysen voting “no”.  Ma in motion as amended c arried.  Voting  “yes” -- all members of  the
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Luna voting “no”. (#5550)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for Recreational Trails
Program (RTP) funds to enhance the North Cheyenne Community Park Trail System.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5551)
 
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Shiraz
Enclave, a replat of a portion of Blocks 80 and 81, formerly known as Interior Heights Addition,
now vacated, being a portion of the NE¼ of Section 7, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P .M., Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located east of and a djacent to Snyder Avenue, north of West Allison R oad).  Mr.
Allen moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#5552)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle
Ridge, Sixth Filing, a replat of Lot 14, Block 1, Saddle Ridge, Fifth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Countryside Avenue and Medicine Man
Trail).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5553)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to lease, with an option
to purchase, sanitation, recycling and landfill equipment.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5554)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water
Conservation F und Gra nt for a ne ighborhood park in B uffalo Ridge.  Motion (pe r Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5555)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Contract between Wyoming Department of Family Services, Social Services Division,
Laramie County, and the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives Division, for in-home
support and mentoring services to under-served families to strengthen the ability of parents to
provide supportive care for their children.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6104)
[CA] Master A greement for Me tropolitan Transpor tation Planning betwe en the Wy oming
Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, and the Cheyenne Metropolitan
Planning Organization -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for City Risk Sharing
Program July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Volleyball Officiating Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Recreation Division, and
Officials for Fun Club for adult City league volleyball officiating services -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] 2013- 2014 Collective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and
Cheyenne Firefighters Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and FCI Construction of Wyoming LLC, for the
pre-construction and c onstruction phase se rvices for the Cheyenne Public Safe ty Center ( 1%
Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax)-- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,
and Ayres Associates, for engineering design for the On-Street Bicycle System Implementation
Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax, Grant funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to  Contract No. 5910 betwe en the City of Cheyenne and
WINHealth Partners for a premium rate increase to the City Employee Health Coverage Plan.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5910)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Cont ract No. 5921 betwee n the C ity of Cheyenne and
Reiman Corporation to reduce retainage for East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project Phase
IV (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax, B oard of Public Utilities, Federal H ighway Ad ministration
Funding) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-10-14 for furnishing one new rotary mower and to trade in a 1999
Jacobsen rough mower for Parks & Recreation Department, Golf Division (Capital Equipment
fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from C&M Golf & Grounds, Denver,
CO, in an amount not to exceed $37,697.10, including trade-in).
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's
Office for Wadsworth Old Chicago, Inc. d/b/a Old Chicago Restaurant, 1734 Meadowland Drive,
Cheyenne, W yoming (License c urrently h eld b y OC  C heyenne, L LC d /b/a O ld C hicago
Restaurant, 1734 Meadowland Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's
Office for High Plains Entertainment, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package Liquor, 2105 E.
Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming ( License curr ently held by  Wigwam, I nc. d/b/a Redwood
Lounge and Package Liquor, 2105 East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Appointments of  Ki mberley With ers to t he Che yenne/Laramie Cou nty Ec onomic
Development Jo int P owers B oard; Je ffie J.  Wi ggins-McMullen to  th e F ire Ci vil Se rvice
Commission; Richard Bryant and Katherine Palmer to the Historic Preservation Board; Lt. Rob
Dafoe and Monique Meese to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers
Board; Mary E. Richey and Edwin G. Avery to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities;
Scott D. Roybal to the Police Civil Service Commission; Terence Roker to the Public Transit
Advisory Board; Victoria Fry and Greg Palmquist to the City Planning Commission; John D. Hall
and Jody Shields to the Board of Adjustments, and Jared S. Olsen to the Housing and Community
Development Advisory Council.  Ms. Broyles moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion
carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Re-appointments of Ken McCann to the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board; Mark Archer,
M.J. Gertsch and Noel R. Griffith Jr.  to the Contractor Licensing Board; Ray Fertig, Jr., Nicholas
Pickering and Darin Westby to the Building Code Board of Appeals; Gene Palen to the Historic
Preservation Board; Gregory Crisp, Howard A. Hill Sr., Mark E. McKay and JoAnne Weigand
to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities; Sue Mecca and Rita Watson to the Personnel
Commission; Marc Woods and Gene MacDonald to the City Planning Commission, and Stephen
M. Ganison, A pril M atthie a nd Ca rol S lane to  th e H ousing a nd Co mmunity D evelopment
Advisory Council.  Ms. Broy les moved to approve , seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion car ried.
Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen
who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne
at the February 26, 2014 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Business  Meeting.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (Mayor Richard L. Kaysen, Official Voting Delegate; City Clerk Carol
Intlekofer, Alternate Delegate).
Under other business:
Buck Holmes, L aramie County Commi ssioner, commente d that County  staff will be
contacting City staff to review access/egress at the new Boys and Girls Club building area.
There being no other business raised by the public and City Council members, Dan White,
City Attorney, requested the governing body meet in executive session for the purpose of briefing
the governing body on a pending lawsuit brought against the City by Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
regarding the Public Meetings Act.  Mr. Shanor moved to meet in executive session, seconded by
Ms. Williams.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes” – a ll members of the governing body present.
Mayor Kaysen announced members would meet in executive session in Council Chambers, not
open to the public; requested the City Attorney, City Clerk, and other staff as requested by the City
Attorney, be present at the executive session, and stated there would be no action taken by the
governing body as a result of the executive  session, and that the regular City Council meeting
would officially conclude at the close of the executive session.  (Clerk’s Note: Executive session
convened at 9:22 p.m.)
The meeting was officially adjourned at 9:46 p.m. following conclusion of the executive
session.
 Submitted by,
 
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 20, 2013 