MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2013-12-23 | CLIP_ID: 406 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 406

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 December 23, 2013
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  P resent were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and
Ms. Williams.  Absent:  Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to support received
by Mr. Allen and Mr. Luna, Agenda Item #13 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Ms. Broyles
moved to approve  remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by  Mr. Allen.  Motion car ried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 9, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to Labor
Ready, J im Elias, Public W orks Dire ctor, provide d information on use of te mporary staffing
services to provide cove rage for solid waste sanitation servic es due to labor  shortages.  Mayor
Kaysen advised the City provides the temporary laborers with some safety training and preparation
for tasks to be pr ovided.  Motion carr ied.  Votin g  “yes” -- all members of th e governing body
present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council
Chambers.
ORDINANCE - Amending the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), as approved
by Ordinance No. 3943 on January  23, 2012, to adopt amendments identified a s Election and
Ideological Sign Amendments from 2013 Annual Review.  Upon request by Mayor Kaysen, Dan
White, City Attorney, explained the status of various document versions that have been involved
with the ordinance, including a proposed substitute ordinance as recommended at the last Public
Services Committee meeting.  Expressing concerns with the current UDC sign provisions involving
election and ideological signs were:  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group; Tim Kingston, local
attorney; Robert Monger; Lynn Hutchings, State House Representative; M. Lee Hasenauer, Laramie
County Commi ssioner, Thomas Hutc hings, a nd L uke Smith.  Topics presented inc luded the
following: C ommunity an d p rivate p roperty concerns; graffiti; t emporary s igns; s ign m essage
contents; freedom of speech; civil discourse; opposition to regulation; enforcement; potential future
changes involving sign regulations, and purpose of UDC sign regulations changes.  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by
Mr. Shanor.  Mr. A llen moved to amend by  substitut e ordina nce, se conded by  Mr. Shanor.
Explanation was provided that the proposed substitute is more of a “content neutral” approach and
is an attempt to addre ss constituti onal principles and community  aesthetics.  Speaking  on the
proposed substitute were:  Mr. Hasenauer, Ms. Hutchings, Mr. Kingston, Mr. Hutchings, James
Perrott Macneil, Albert Simpson, Mr. Wiggam and Buck Holmes, Laramie County Commissioner.
During comments and upon inquiry , Mr. White provided information on an amendment to the
ordinance that was approved on second reading pertaining to the size of signs in residential districts,
and the proposed substitute which provides for an aggregate total square footage sign size per lot.
Discussion followed and included topics r elative to sig n size in re sidential vs. non-reside ntial
districts; a ddressing c onstitutional c oncerns; a pplicable ho meowners’ a ssociation r estrictions;
reasonable time, place and manner provisions, and whether signs may constitute a nuisance.  During
discussion and upon inquiry, Mr. White provided information on the petition process allowed by
state statute to contest an approved ordinance.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes”
-- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr.
Brown, Mr. Cook and Mayor Kaysen.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend the second sentence contained
in Section 8 of the substitute by inserting the phrase “in Zone P” between the words “place” and
“over”, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Comments were made that the proposed amendment would assist
with special event signs on publicly zoned property, and that the proposed amendment wording may
be better to insert following another amendment that would be offered.  Motion to amend failed.
Voting “yes” -- Ms. Broyles and Dr. Rinne.  Voting “no” – Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr.
Luna, Mr. Shanor, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Mr. Shanor, seconded by Mr. Allen, moved
to amend the substitute ordinanc e as f ollows: ( 1) In Section 8, strike the sec ond sentenc e as
contained in UDC Section 6.5.4(b)(2)(h) and replace it with the following wording as a new section
(6.5.4(d)) – “Any applicant that desires to place more temporary signs on its lot than allotted for
elsewhere in this Section may do so for not more than two (2) periods of consecutive time, neither
period to exceed twenty (20) days in length, per calendar year.  During this period of time, unlimited
signage is permitted on the lot.  The applicant, prior to displaying the additional temporary signs
pursuant to this paragraph, shall submit to the Development office the dates it is choosing to use
for the twenty day  period.” ; (2) I n Section 6, first bullet item, strike “Other  than
Neighborhood/District Identification Signs and change the word “parcels” to lots”; (3) In Section
6, first bullet item, strike “in a residential zoning district” at the end of the sentence, and (4) In
Section 8, first sentence, change the word “site” to “lot”.  Discussion on the proposed amendments
followed and included concern with potential legal challenges, and the opportunity to make future
UDC changes during the annual review process.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr.
Allen, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” – Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles,
Mr. Cook and Mayor Kaysen.  Dr . Rinne, seconded by Mr. Shanor, moved to amend the first
sentence in Section 6.5.4(d) by striking the words “on its lot” and inserting the phrase “in Zone P
(Public) other” which would result in the sentence reading as follows: “Any applicant that desires
to place more temporary signs in Zone P (Public) other than allotted for elsewhere in this Section
may do so for not more than two (2) periods of consecutive time, neither period to exceed twenty
(20) days in length, per calendar year.”.  Expressing concern with the proposed amendment were
Mr. Wiggam and Mr. Macneil.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles,
Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” – Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook and
Mayor Kaysen.  Discussion followed on the main motion as amended (3 amendments) and included
the following topics:  Previously recommended ordinance wording as approved by staff and the City
Attorney; origination of current UDC language; communications received from residents regarding
signage, c ontent a nd a esthetic c oncerns; c onstitutional c oncerns a nd i ssues; “ content n eutral”
ordinance version; addressing additional concerns through future ordinance changes; enforcement;
providing time for staff and City Attorney input on amendments that had been offered and approved
at the current meeting, and freedom of speech.  Ms. Broyles moved to postpone the item to January
13, 2014, seconde d by Mr. B rown.  Spea king on the  motion to pos tpone were Mr. Simpson,
commenting in opposition to postponement, and Mr. Hasenauer, requesting City Attorney response
on whether the proposed ordinance, as amended, would meet constitutional compliance.  Mayor
Kaysen stated he  would not r equest the City  Attorney to express an opinion on constituti onal
compliance without the attorney having the opportunity to fully review.  Motion to postpone failed.
Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles and Mr. Cook.  Voting “no” – Mr. Allen, Mr. Luna, Dr.
Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Following further discussion on the proposed
ordinance as amended, main motion to approve on third and final reading failed (Clerk’s note: Main
motion to approve an ordinance on final reading requires a minimum of 6 affirmative votes to pass).
Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr.
Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook and Mayor Kaysen.
ORDINANCE - Authorizing the issuance by the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, of a 2013
Refunding Revenue Water Note, in a maximum principal amount of $8,740,000 and an interest rate
of 2.41% a nd a maturity  date of  not to exceed December 1, 2025, for the pur pose of a dvance
refunding a portion of the refunding Revenue Water Bonds, Series 2007; prescribing the form of
said 2013 note; providing for the payment of the 2013 note and the interest thereon; authorizing the
execution and delivery by the City of the 2013 note, and the sale of such 2013 note to BOKF, NA
d/b/a Colorado State Bank and Trust, a paying agent and registrar agreement, an escrow agreement,
closing documents and any other documents necessary in connection therewith; ratifying certain
action heretofore taken and providing other details in connection therewith. Reporting for Finance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr.
Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Randy Hays, Board of Public
Utilities, advised the amendment eliminates a paying agent being involved as it is not a requirement
and would save funds.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.  Main motion, as amended by substitute, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present. (#4012)
ORDINANCE - Amending Note 2 of the City of Cheyenne’s Sanitation Fee Schedule
established by Ordinance No. 3982.  M r. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#4013)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Of ficial Z oning Ma p, o f the Cheyenne U nified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from NB Neighborhood Business to NR-2
Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density for Lots 15 and 16, Block 17, Crest Ridge, 4  Filing,th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and a djacent to St orey Boulevard, between Canyon and
Ridge Roads).  De bbie Hall expressed c oncerns with density level and pa rking for the a rea and
questioned what type of development might be constructed on the property.  Mayor Kaysen advised
the ag enda item c oncerns re- zoning of the pr operty and  to date final deve lopment plans are
unknown.  James Perrot Macneil suggested interested persons check on the ownership status of the
property.  Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, noted there was an expectation
that the platting process will come before the governing body and any conditional use approval will
go before the Board of Adjustment, stating public notice will be provided for those processes.
Mayor Kaysen advised the motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.  Pursuant to a point of order raised by Mr. Allen regarding whether there had been a motion
on the floor for the item, Mayor Kaysen concurred that a motion had not been made and requested
a procedural correction.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.
Comment followed on a conceptual development plan that had been submitted by the developer and
that further information may be received prior to final reading.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Of ficial Zoning Map, of the Che yenne U nified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential
– Established and MUR Mix ed Use Residential Emphasis to MUR  Mixed Use R esidential
Emphasis for the N1/2 of Lot 2, and all of Lots 3 & 4, Block 236, Original City (to be known as
Keefe Cottages Subdivision), Chey enne, Wy oming ( located a t the southeast cor ner of  the
intersection of Evans Avenue and E. 22nd Street).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carr ied.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the g overning body
present.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and  Section 5.1.3, Offic ial Z oning Ma p, of the Chey enne U nified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential-
Established to MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for Lot 1, and the East 34-feet of Lot 2, Block
382, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corne r of the inter section of
Pebrican Avenue and E. 17  Street).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded byth
Mr. Shanor.  Comment followed that the applicant has shown a vested interest in maintaining the
historical value of the neighborhood.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Shanor moved to divide the question to allow for a separate vote on the line item
entry re-appropriating $140,000 to the Fire Department budget, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion to
divide the question carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Pursuant
to a point of order raised by Mr. Allen pertaining to discussion from the public on the motion to
divide the question, May or Kaysen advised a motion to divi de the que stion was not debatable .
Discussion followed on using non-recurring funds to pay for recurring expenditures; state funding
sources; current state legislative discussions concerning Fire Plan A Pension program status; that
funding of the $140,000, due to the recent Fire union arbitration decision, should be utilized from
another source; budgetary concerns, and a llowing an administrative dec ision to be made on a
different funding source.  Mr. Brown raised a point of order requesting clarification of the motion
on the floor with Mayor Kaysen advising the motion on the floor was to approve re-appropriating
$140,000 from impact assistance funds to the Fire Department budget in response to the arbitration
award.  Discussion followed on possible other statewide fire arbitration decisions that may assist
in identifying funding needs prior to the next fiscal year budget cycle, and source of funds proposed
in the re-appropriation resolution (i.e. impact assistance funds).  Mayor Kaysen verified the impact
assistance funds are identified as part of the current general budget.  Motion to approve the line item
re-appropriating $140,000 to the Fire Department budget failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the
governing body present.  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised, for clarification, that since approval
of the line item re -appropriating the $140,000 had f ailed, it would no longe r be a  part of the
remaining main motion to adopt the resolution.  Upon indication by Ms. Broyles that she wished
to c hange he r v ote, Mayor Kaysen expl ained th at on ce a  vo te ha s b een ta ken a nd the  re sult
announced, a vote can not be changed.  Mr. Allen raised a point of order suggesting that an option
available to Ms. Broy les would be to bring  the item up for r econsideration.  M ayor Ka ysen
confirmed that the administration  would need to identify another funding source relative to the
$140,000 amount and the arbitration decision.  Main motion as revised (due to action taken as a
result of the motion to divide the question) carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Ms. Broyles and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”. (#5556)
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsor – Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Keefe
Cottages Subdivision, a replat of the North ½ of Lot 2, and all of Lots 3 and 4, Block 236, Original
City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Evans Avenue and
E. 22nd Street) – referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor – Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the five year Transit Development Plan for the Cheyenne
Transit Program as a flexible planning tool for future improvements to the Cheyenne area transit
program  – referred to Finance Committee (sponsors – Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne and Mr.
Valdez).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the City  of Chey enne to g rant an easement to the United
States of America, Department of Energy, Western Area Power Administration, for the installation
of buried fiber optic and other communications cables within Western Area Power Administration’s
existing electric transmission line easement over a parcel of land owned by the City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming  – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor – Mr. Brown).
Master A greement for Me tropolitan Transpo rtation Planning be tween the  Wy oming
Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, and the Cheyenne Metropolitan
Planning Organ ization.  Mr. B rown reported there was no rec ommendation on the item from
Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Luna voting
“no”. (#6111)
[CA] Contract between the Cit y of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for  City Risk S haring
Program July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6112)
[CA] Volleyball Officiating Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Recreation Division, and
Officials for Fun Club for adult City league volleyball officiating services.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6113)
[CA] 2013- 2014 Coll ective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and
Cheyenne Firefighters Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6114) 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and FCI Construction of Wyoming LLC, for the pre-
construction and construction phase services for the Cheyenne Public Safety Center (1% Specific
Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6115)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,
and Ayres Associates, for engineering design for the On - Street Bicycle System Implementation
Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax, Grant funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $40,437.00). (#6116)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Stride Learning Center for
use of a  2006 Chevrolet El Dora do bus for ser vices for  Stride clients – ref erred to Fina nce
Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Frontier Refining, LLC, designating Holly
Frontier Refining Corporation as the title sponsor of the annual Superday event for 2014, 2015 and
2016 – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Cont ract No. 59 21 between the City  of Chey enne and
Reiman Corporation to reduce retainage for East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project Phase
IV (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax, Board of Public Utilities, Federal Highway Administration Funding).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5921)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5965 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Depa rtment, and DH M Desig n Corporation for  additional desig n s ervices for the
Converse Softball Complex Renovation project (Menard property sale proceeds) – referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Authorization to purchase traffic striping paint and beads under Wyoming Department of
Transportation Bid #14-002TZ and #14-003TZ (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office
for Texas Roadhouse Holdings, LLC d/b/a/ Texas Roadhouse, 1931 Bluegrass Circle, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (License currently held by Texas Roadhouse of Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Texas Roadhouse,
1931 Bluegrass Circle, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
Under other busi ness, May or Ka ysen announc ed that communica tion from Charter
Communications (local cable services provider) had been received advising that due to the holiday
work schedule, broadcasting of the evening’s City Council meeting on Channel 19 would be later
than usual and occur on January 1, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. and again on January 4, 2014 at 11:00 a.m.

There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:36 p.m. 
 Submitted by,
 
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 7, 2014