MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-01-13 | CLIP_ID: 409 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 409

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 January 13, 2014
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: MAYOR - Richard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and
Ms. Williams.  Absent: Mr. Allen.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Recognition was made and congratulations extended to Michael Martinez-Montano, Cassidy
Weber, Elissa Pino and Kiahna Pisano for being selected as the Cheyenne Boys and Girls Club Youth
of the Year.  It was noted that Ms. Pisano will be Wyoming’s representative at the national level.
ELECTION OF CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENT FOR 2014.  Mayor Kaysen noted for the
record that, pursuant to City Code, he would be conducting the election for the office of City Council
President but would not be voting, and advised nominations were in order.  Mr. Shanor moved to
nominate and elect Dr. Rinne as City Council President for 2014, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  There
being no further nominations, Mr. Shanor moved that nominations cease, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of
Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.  Comment followed in support of the nominee.  Motion to nominate
and elect Dr. Rinne carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.
ELECTION OF CITY COUNCIL VICE-PRESIDENT FOR 2014.  Mayor Kaysen noted for
the record that, pursuant to City Code, he would be conducting the election for the office of City
Council Vice-President but would not be voting, and advised nominations were in order.  Ms. Broyles
moved to nominate and elect Mr. Allen as City Council Vice-President for 2014, seconded by Dr.
Rinne.  There being no further nominations, Mr. Shanor moved that nominations cease, seconded by
Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.  Motion to nom inate and e lect Mr. Allen c arried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who
did not vote.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member  of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to support received by
Ms. Broyles and Dr. Rinne, Agenda Item #15 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Shanor
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 23, 2013.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and Radio Station KYOY-F M respectively) and vacated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez returned to Council
Chambers.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from NB Neighborhood Business to NR-2 Neighborhood
Residential – Medium Densit y for L ots 15 and 16, Bloc k 17, Crest Ridge , 4  Filing, Cheyenne,th
Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Storey Boulevard, between Canyon and Ridge Roads).
Roger Alexander, a djacent property  owner , spoke in ag reement with the propose d zoning
classification but expressed concerns with proposed development plans for the property relative to
such topics as buff ering, scre ening and lig hting, a nd the deve lopment being inconsistent and
incompatible with the existing neighborhood.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Discussion followed on zoning
criteria being met by  the deve loper, and the possibilit y to addre ss additional development plan
concerns, which would include  the opportunity  for public input, as the pr oject proceeds.  U pon
inquiry, Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, advised that options available that
have been discussed may involve either a conditional use approval or plat approval process.  Upon
further inquiry, Mayor Kaysen confirmed if a plat came before the governing body the process would
provide for public input.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#4014)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential – Established and
MUR Mixed Use Residential Emphasis to MUR Mixed Use Residential Emphasis for the N1/2 of
Lot 2, and all of Lots 3 & 4, Block 236, Original City (to be known as Keefe Cottages Subdivision),
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Evans Avenue and E. 22nd
Street).  Mr. Shanor  moved to approve  on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Upon
inquiry, Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, stated it was his understanding
the applicant is seeking the zone change as a housekeeping effort since most of the property is already
zoned MUR, and the change will provide for continuation of existing uses (detached garages) and
that he wa s not awar e of a ny properties within the block being  used for  a commer cial purpose.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4015)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential-Established to
MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for Lot 1, and the East 34-feet of Lot 2, Block 382, Original
City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Pebrican Avenue
and E. 17  Street).  Jan Nelson-Schroll expressed concerns with the MUB zone classification relativeth
to allowing more business activities within the residential neighborhood.  She suggested a policy be
put into place whe reby a house, or  the pr operty site, could be e asily transitioned bac k into a
residentially zoned use.  She commented in support of pr eservation efforts concerning proposed
renovation of the house located upon the property.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final
reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Discussion followed on concerns with commercial developments
and ventur es enc roaching into re sidential are as, and w hether there  would be any  problem
procedurally if, in the future, use of the  proper ty wer e to re turn to residential use.  Jonathan
Woodward, Development Office, advised that a residential use is permitted within a MUB zone so
a zone change action would not be required if a property owner wanted to change the business use
back to residential use.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Dr. Rinne and Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#4016)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to MUR Mixed-Use Residential
Emphasis for Lot 8, Block 223, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner
of the intersection of Dillon Avenue and W. 21  Street) -- referred to Public Services Committeest
(sponsor -- Mr. Allen).
ORDINANCE - Vacating a portion of 16 foot alley in Block 353, Original City, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of W. 18  Street and Thomes Avenue) --th
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen). 
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5557)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for K eefe
Cottages Subdivision, a replat of the North ½ of Lot 2, and all of Lots 3 and 4, Block 236, Original
City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Evans Avenue and
E. 22nd Street).  Casey  Palma, Steil S urveying Ser vices, a gent for the  applicants, provide d
information regarding the affiliated zone change acted upon earlier in the meeting, noting the r e-
zoning of the pr operty provides for  retaining existing uses of the pr operty, and advise d the plat
includes designation of separate lots for areas currently having garage structures and provides for an
access easement to a shared alley.  During discussion and upon inquiry, Mr. Palma stated the lots are
small in size and any parking area for items such as boats and rec reational vehicles would be no
different than other  properties; that no additional traff ic volume due to the platting  action wa s
foreseen, and that curr ently there are no construction plans involving  the prope rty.  Mr. Shanor
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Following brief discussion, motion carried.  Voting “yes”
– all members of the governing body present. (#5558)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the five year Transit Development Plan for the Cheyenne Transit
Program as a flexible planning tool for future improvements to the Cheyenne area transit program.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5559)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to grant an easement to the United States
of America, Department of Energy, Western Area Power Administration, for the installation of buried
fiber optic and other communications cables within Western Area Power Administration’s existing
electric transmission line easement over a parcel of land owned by the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5560)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to execute a S tate Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government Grant Agreement for attendance at the 2014 Saving
Places Conference -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Allen). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - D esignating the Sunday s during 2014 th at annual liquor licensee s may
extend dispensing room hours of operation for sales until 2:00 A.M. the following day -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Stride Learning Center for
use of a 2006 Chevrolet El Dorado bus for services for Stride clients.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#6118)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Frontier Refining, LLC, designating Holly
Frontier Refining Corporation as the title sponsor of the annual Superday event for 2014, 2015 and
2016.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (revenue to the City  in the amount of $25,000.00
annually). (#6119)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City  of Chey enne, Police D epartment, and
Laramie County  Sheriff’s Depa rtment for Explosive Ordnanc e and D isposal (EOD) , Special
Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) and Crisis Negotiation Unit (CNU) operations and law enforcement
extraterritorial assistance and activities -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5965 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Depa rtment, and DH M Desig n Corporation for  additional desig n s ervices for  the
Converse So ftball Co mplex Re novation p roject ( Menard p roperty s ale p roceeds).  M otion ( per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $7,400.00). (#5965)
[CA] Authorization to purchase tra ffic striping paint and beads under Wyoming Department of
Transportation Bid #14-002TZ and #14-003TZ (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-8-14 for f urnishing tw o new 2014-2015 trucks for the City  of
Cheyenne, Public Works Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax & General Small Equipment fund)
– referred to Finance Committee. 
Announcement was made  of the Re- Appointments of Ann Picot and Dar yl Hensel to the
Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed January 27, 2014.
Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday on Monday, January
20, 2014, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the Municipal
Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee
will meet Tuesday, J anuary 21, 2014 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Service s Commi ttee will meet
Wednesday, January 22, 2014 at Noon.
Under other business:
Ms. Broyles st ated th at at  the  December 2 3, 20 13 City Cou ncil m eeting, th e mot ion to
approve on 3  and fina l rea ding the  ordinanc e involving sig n amendments to the Unifie drd
Development Code failed; that she had voted on the prevailing side and, pursuant to Chapter 2.04 of
City Code, moved to reconsider the vote taken on the ordinance on 3  and final reading, secondedrd
by Mr. Cook.  Upon request by Mayor Kaysen, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, read the entitlement of
the ordinance proposed for reconsideration into the record as follows: An Ordinance amending the
Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), as approved by Ordinance No. 3943 on January 23,
2012, to addre ss issues raised re garding City sign r egulations.  Ms. Broy les commented on the
purpose of her motion to reconsider the ordinance.  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” – all
members of the g overning body present.  Ms. Broy les moved to amend by  substitute ordinance,
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Comments followed on the proposed substitute addressing election/political
signs as a separate issue at this time, and concern that the proposed substitute does not adequately
address constitutional issues present in t he current ordinance.  Motion to amend c arried.  Voting
“yes” – Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” – Mr. Luna,
Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Ms. Broyles moved to postpone the item to January 27,
2014, seconded by Mr. Brown.  It was noted postponement will provide the opportunity for the public
to be awa re of  the re consideration action and provide  input on the substit ute ordina nce be ing
proposed.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.
Mayor Kaysen advised the item will be reviewed for recommendation at the next Public Services
Committee meeting, which will be held Wednesday, January 22, 2014 at Noon in Room 122,
Municipal Building, due to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday that week.
Upon inquiry, Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, advised staff is looking at options
with regard to swimming f acilities that may  be ava ilable to the public during  the closure  of the
Municipal Pool in Lions Park due to construction beginning this spring.
It was noted the annual Martin Luther King, Jr. dinner banquet will be held at the Holiday Inn
on January 19, 2014 beginning at 6:00 p.m., and the annual public march (from the Depot to Capitol
Building) will be held on January 20, 2014 in observance of the holiday.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 6:49 p.m. 
 Submitted by,
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 21, 2014