MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-01-27 | CLIP_ID: 411 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 411

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 January 27, 2014
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: MAYOR - Richard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White, City Attorney.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member  of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor  moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 13, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Council Chambers.  Mr. Va ldez moved  to approve  pay ment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to E/S3
Consultants, Inc., Jim Elias, Public Works Director, clarified the consultant is finishing up work on
the City’s energy efficiency project with regard to federal Buy America provisions.  Motion carried.
Voting “ yes” - - all member s of the g overning body prese nt in Council C hambers.  Following
announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - A mending the Ch eyenne Unified Development (UDC), as appr oved by
Ordinance No . 3 943 o n J anuary 2 3, 2 012, t o ad opt am endments i dentified as  el ection s ign
amendments from the 2013 annual review (postponed from Jan. 13, 2014).  Reporting for Public
Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.
Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to Feb. 10, 2014, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry, Dan White,
City Attorney, advised in view of  the lawsuit that has bee n filed ag ainst the City , outside leg al
counsel has been retained to review necessary pleadings and to offer advice on proposed ordinance
wording.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Mayor
Kaysen noted the item will be reviewed at the next Public Services Committee to be held on Feb. 4,
2014 at noon in Room 122, Municipal Building.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to MUR Mixed-Use Residential
Emphasis for Lot 8, Block 223, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner
of the intersection of Dillon Avenue and W. 21  Street).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on secondst
reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  U pon inquiry regarding non-conforming uses in the area, Brett
Walker, Development Office, stated it would probably be beneficial to have a small area plan in place
for future considerations and to include options that may be available based upon zoning requests
from other property owners in the area.  Comments followed on the purpose of re-zoning the area to
Light Industrial (LI) several years ago, and the need to re-evaluate area zoning relative to residential
uses.  Dan Edeen, Phoenix Builders, advised he was in attendance to answer any questions.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Vacating a portion of 16 foot alley in Block 353, Original City, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of W. 18  Street and Thomes Avenue).th
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  It was noted that a portion
of the alley is being requested to be vacated in preparation for construction of the new public safety
building.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
ORDINANCE - A mending the Chey enne U nified De velopment Code (U DC), to adopt
amendments to increase the maximum Administrative Adjustment from 10% to 50% for infill and
redevelopment as initiated from the 2013 annual review -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
 
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of the Chey enne Unified Development Code
(UDC), to add an Urban Loft Lot Type (NB3) and “Urban Loft Building” definition, allowed as a Use
Permitted By Right and Use Permitted after Conditional Discretionary Review in Residential, Mixed
Use and Neighborhood Business districts -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr.
Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the M ayor and the City Clerk to e xecute a State Historic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government Grant Agreement for attendance at the 2014 Saving
Places Conference.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5561 Res./#6122 Contract)
 
RESOLUTION - Des ignating the Sunday s during 2014 that annual liquor lice nsees may
extend dispensing room hours of operation for sales until 2:00 A.M. the following day.  K evin
Georges, President, Laramie County Liquor Dealers Association, advised the requested Sundays
(Super Bowl Sunday, Sunday of Memorial Day weekend, 1  Sunday of Frontier Days, and Sundayst
of Labor Day weekend) were chosen based on time frames involving special events and activities and
provides licensees with a choice of extending hours for sales to promote patronage of benefit to
businesses and in support of tourism.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to adopt,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, provided information
relative to the depa rtment’s report on violations/offenses oc curring during past years’ approved
Sundays, noting the total number of offenses in the report may not have involved alcohol.  Comment
followed on state legislative vs. local government involvement in addressing extended hours, and
concern with alcohol-based incidents and related vehicular accidents in general.  Motion carrie d.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Broyles voting “no”.
(#5562)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Ch apter 3) application to the State L oan and I nvestment Board for the Tra nsfer Station
Upgrade Phase II -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Mr. Allen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Setting aside monies in the 2015 fiscal year budget to be used to implement
corrective or  emer gency measures  for structures that are  deeme d vaca nt, unsafe, da ngerous or
otherwise unfit for human occupancy pursuant to the City of Cheyenne Dangerous Building Code --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Williams).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for  the
Cheyenne Public Safety Center, a replat of portions of Lots 1 thru 8, and that portion of vacated alley,
Block 353, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of
W. 18 th Street and Thomes Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor --  Mr.
Shanor). 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City  of Chey enne, Police Dep artment, and
Laramie County  Sheriff’ s Depa rtment for Explosive Ordnanc e an d Disposal (EOD) , Special
Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) and Crisis Negotiation Unit (CNU) operations and law enforcement
extraterritorial assistance and activities.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6121) 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Professional Services Contract No. 5917 between the City of Cheyenne,
Metropolitan Planning Organization, and Ayres Associates, Inc. for the Dell Range Corridor Study,
Phase II (Federal MPO funds, Federal Highway Safety Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-8-14 for furnishing two new 2014-2015 trucks for  the City  of
Cheyenne, Public Works Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax & General Small Equipment fund).
Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (accept bid from Spradley  Barr Motors, Chey enne, in a n
amount not to exceed $117,736.61).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-12-14 for constructing a wood structure, metal siding building,
(pole barn) for the City  of Chey enne, Parks & Recreation Department, Urban Forestry Division
(2011-2014 1%  Sa les Tax & C ontractual Maintenance Account Urban Forestry) -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne Public Works Department,
Transit Division an d Radio Engineering Industries, Inc., to provide Computer A ided Scheduling
Software with Mobile Data Terminals (Transit Federal funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
Re-Appointments of Ann Picot and Daryl Hensel to the Mayor’s Council for People with
Disabilities.  Ms. Broyles moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral
appointments).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 10, 2014, at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership for
a retail  liquor lice nse a pplication f iled w ith the  City  Cle rk’s Of fice fo r M inglemill, I nc. d /b/a
Mingles, 1618 Stillwater Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Stillwater, Inc.
d/b/a Mingles, 1618 Stillwater Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming). 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 6:25 p.m. 
 Submitted by,
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 February 7, 2014