MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-02-10 | CLIP_ID: 413 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 413

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 February 10, 2014
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: MAYOR - Richard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member  of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 27, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Council Chambers.  Mr. Va ldez moved  to approve  pay ment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Pursuant to inquiry regarding a voucher payable to
EQ Sound for wireless microphones used for a Civic Center production and whether there is a local
company that can provide the service, Mayor Kaysen advised he would contact applicable staff and
provide follow-up information.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council
Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a transfer of
ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Minglemill, Inc.
d/b/a Mingles, 1618 Stillwater Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Stillwater,
Inc. d/b/a Mingles, 1618 Stillwater Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  There being no comments or
input and  purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.  The
item was referred to Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE - Amending the Cheyenne Unified Development (UDC), as approved by
Ordinance No . 3 943 o n J anuary 2 3, 2 012, t o ad opt am endments i dentified as  el ection s ign
amendments from the 2013 annual review (postponed from Jan. 27, 2014).  Reporting for Public
Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Mr. Shanor moved to amend by substitute dated 02-04-14, seconded by Mr. Allen.  (City Clerk note -
title of substitute ordinance:  An Ordinance, pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Chey enne
Unified Development Code (“UDC”), amending Section 6.5.5.b. to add exemptions from the sign
permit requirements of Article 6.5 of the UDC relating to signs.)  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City
Attorney, clarified the purpose of the amendment is to exempt from the sign regulations of the UDC
those types of signs that are both easily placed and removed from the ground, without structures,
construction or specialized equipment, and which relate to candidates, issues, propositions or other
matters to be voted upon by the electors of the city, or which relate to p hilosophical, religious,
political, charitable or other similar noncommercial messages.  M. Lee Hasenauer, Laramie County
Commissioner, commented in support of addressing the constitutional issue and spoke in favor of
the amendment.  Upon inquiry for clarification, Mr. White confirmed the effect of the amendment
would be that political and ideological signs would have no restriction on the amount of time they
can be posted, or the size or number of signs that can be placed on a lot.  Discussion topics included:
Concerns with having unrestricted signs, such as sign size/total size; objectives of the sign ordinance
to maintain and enhance visual qualities and aesthetics to the community and promote pedestrian and
vehicle sa fety b y minimizing distra ctions, and addr essing reg ulations, if neede d, in the future.
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez,
Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook and Dr. Rinne.  Comments
followed regarding concerns that had been raised affiliated with non-regulation, including sign size,
number a nd setbac ks, and re ctifying the  constit utional issue throug h the proposed a mended
ordinance.  Ms. Broyles moved to postpone for two weeks.  Motion died due to the lack of a second.
Main motion on third and final reading, as amended by substitute, carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen,
Mr. Brown, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” --
Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook and Dr. Rinne. (#4017)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to MUR Mixed-Use Residential
Emphasis for Lot 8, Block 223, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner
of the intersection of Dillon Avenue and W. 21  Street).  Dan Edeen, Phoenix Builders, representingst
the property owners, briefly reviewed the purpose of the zone change, which is to allow the owners
to build a new residence on the site that will be up to codes.  Jan Nelson-Schroll spoke in support of
the area being zoned residential and not light industrial, and expressed concerns that there is nothing
in place through the City to help people restore older, antique homes in lieu of tearing them down and
rebuilding.  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, commented in support of the zone cha nge,
expressing that the property owner’s situation reflects a broader, wide-spread problem with zoning
classifications vs. uses on the west side of the City that should be addressed.  Mr. Shanor moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Following brief comment, motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4018)
ORDINANCE - Vacating a portion of 16 foot alley in Block 353, Original City, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of W. 18  Street and Thomes Avenue).th
Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4019) 
ORDINANCE - A mending the Chey enne U nified De velopment Code (UDC), to adopt
amendments to increase the maximum Administrative Adjustment from 10% to 50% for infill and
redevelopment as initiated from the 2013 annual review.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by substitute ordinance, seconded by
Mr. Allen. I t was advised the  purpose of  the substitute is t o include that an e xplanation to the
applicant and the public will be provided if the administrative adjustment is approved, and to include
a sunset  provision to determine effectiveness of the ordinance after one year.  D iscussion topics
included:  D ecision of the  director relative to a n applicant appeal process; consideration that a
notification process to residents in the area involved with the application be included; purpose and
benefit of including a sunset clause; amending the current administrative adjustment percentage to
assisting in spurring re-development; annual UDC review requirement, and responsibility of notifying
City Council members when the ordinance will sunset.  Upon query to City Council members by
Mayor Kaysen to allow him to voice an observation regarding the sunset clause, and there being no
objection raised, Mayor Kaysen noted that the a nnual UDC re view process may take c are of the
purpose of including a sunset clause.  Mayor Kaysen advised that administration staff will provide
notification to the governing body when the ordinance would “sunset” if the clause is included in the
final ordinanc e.  Motion to amend by  substitut e ca rried.  Voting “yes” - - all member s of the
governing body.  Mr. Allen, sec onded by Dr. Rinne, m oved to amend the substitute ordinanc e as
follows: Strike the words “is final and” in Section 6 under Specific Procedures so the last sentence
would instead read “The decision of the Director shall be given to the applicant in writing, and a copy
shall be made available for public review.”; change numbering of the next section from Section 6 to
Section 7, and in the newly re-numbered Section 7 insert the word “hereof” at the end of the first
sentence and strike the last sentence in its entirety.  It was verified that the proposed changes to
Section 7 would result in the section reading as follows: “That this ordinance shall be in full force
and effect upon its approval and publication for a period of one year hereof.”  It was noted that the
amendment is to incorporate some suggestions offered by the City Attorney.  Motion to amend the
substitute carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body.  Discussion followed on
possible future amendment that may be proposed at the next Public Services Committee meeting with
regard to a neighborhood notification requirement; purpose of the ordinance, which is to assist with
re-development of existing properties; sunset clause to allow for review by the governing body, and
notification requirements (signage) affiliated with the site plan process.  Main motion to approve as
twice amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
 
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of the Chey enne Unified Development Code
(UDC), to add an Urban Loft Lot Type (NB3) and “Urban Loft Building” definition, allowed as a Use
Permitted By Right and Use Permitted after Conditional Discretionary Review in Residential, Mixed
Use a nd Ne ighborhood Bu siness d istricts.  M r. S hanor m oved t o approve o n s econd re ading,
seconded by Mr. Allen.  Comments followed regarding uses permitted by right and after conditional
discretionary review, and that an urban loft use is already permitted in a Community Business District
(CBD) zone.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, c hanging the  z oning c lassification f rom CB  Com munity B usiness t o M UR Mixe d-Use
Residential Emphasis for the south 79 feet of Lot 8, Block 311, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of E. 18  Street and Logan Avenue) -- referredth
to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to LI Light Industrial for Lot
1, Block 1, Public Works Addition, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located on the west side of North College
Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the Transfer S tation
Upgrade Phase II.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5563)
RESOLUTION - Setting aside monies in the 2015 fiscal year budget to be used to implement
corrective or  emer gency measures f or structure s that are  deeme d vaca nt, unsafe, da ngerous or
otherwise unfit for human occupancy pursuant to the City of Cheyenne Dangerous Building Code.
Mr. Shanor recused himself from discussion and voting on the item to avoid the appearance of any
potential or perceived conflict of interest, and vacated Council Chambers.  Pete Laybourn spoke in
support of the resolution, referencing a past ordinance that applied to abandoned residential structures
which was no longer in effect due to a sunset expiration clause.  Mr. Laybourn expressed concerns
with vacant structures and community safety, and voiced support for providing budget funding to
assist w ith c ode e nforcement.  Reporting fo r Finance Com mittee, M r. Brown mov ed to  a dopt,
seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Brown moved to amend to increase the funding amount to $25,000,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, expressed his understanding
that the proposed inc rease in funding  would primarily  be used to c over costs of filing liens a nd
litigation if affected properties resulted in transferring private property into public ownership.  He
requested the initial $5,000 funding request be kept for use to board up buildings, and that results of
re-development and infill projects and initiatives be reviewed for effectiveness before increasing the
funding.  Upon inquiry, discussion followed regarding the rationale for increasing the funding request
from $5,000 to $25,000 and potential funding sources. During discussion, Mr. Brown raised a point
of order that comments being made did not pertain to wording of the resolution with Mayor Kaysen
ruling that comments could continue.  D iscussion continued and included the following topics:
Potential funding sour ces, including g rants; available City Council continge ncy funds; estimated
number of properties containing abandoned or vacant houses/structures that may be involved per
Council Ward; code enforcement; upcoming budget process for next fiscal year and concern with the
increased funding amount; dangerous buildings as a community health, safety and welfare issue, and
status of curr ent budget revenues vs. expenditures.  During  discussion reg arding the number of
estimated properties that may be involved, Mr. Allen raised a point of order that comments were not
germane to t he motion on the floor with Mayor Kaysen concurring and advising that comments
should stay on topic.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles and Ms.
Williams.  Voting “no” --  Mr. B rown, Mr. Cook, Mr. L una, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valde z and May or
Kaysen.  Ms. Broyles moved to amend by adding the amount of $2,040.49 from Council Ward III
contingency funds to the $5,000 funding request, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Dr. Rinne raised a point
of information regarding the proc ess that has be en utilized by Council members on de termining
approval f or us e of  Cou ncil c ontingency fu nds p er Ward .  Mayor Ka ysen a dvised it  wa s h is
understanding that past practice has been that approval of Council contingency funds are determined
by City Council members who represent each Ward.  Discussion followed on abstention from voting
on use of contingency funds by Council members who do not represent the Ward involved in the
motion to amend and affiliated concerns, and history of Council contingency funds per Ward and
approval for use.  M ayor Kaysen recognized Mr. Laybourn, who provided information on past
disbursement of Council Ward I  contingency funds throug h a re solution process, which wa s the
preference of Council Ward I members at that time when he served on C ity Council.  Motion to
amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Broyles and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown,
Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Pursuant to comments regarding
recouping expenses through a lien process and costs, and upon inquiry, Bruce Wilson, Chief Building
Official, reviewed generally the process that is followed relative to notices and orders that are issued
to property owners and further actions if non-compliance continues, including boarding up/securing
of properties.  Upon further inquiry, Mr. Wilson explained the past ordinance, which is no longer in
effect, required owners to register abandoned residential buildings and that of all of the properties
registered only one was truly abandoned with others involving properties that had gone through
foreclosure by mortg age companies.  Upon inquiry , May or Ka ysen stated the c ost for aba ting
nuisances is attached to the pr operty owner and sometimes collec tion efforts are suc cessful and
sometimes not.  Upon query, Mr. Wilson stated it would cost approximately $150-$300 to board up
a house, depending on the number of openings.  Discussion continued and included banks owning
properties that may be abandoned or vacant; identification of properties and lack of communications
between various agencies to assist with identification.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote,
Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers. (#5564)
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the City Clerk to sig n a F inal Plat for  the
Cheyenne Public Safety Center, a replat of portions of Lots 1 thru 8, and that portion of vacated alley,
Block 353, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of
W. 18th Street and Thomes Avenue).  Mr. Shanor moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5565)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in support
of the a pplication of the B oard of County Commissioners of L aramie County, Wyoming, to be
submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2013 - 2014 Countywide Consensus Block
Grant funding in the amount of $31,430.00 for  the L aramie County Historic Courthouse roof --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in support
of the a pplication of the Town of  Pine Bluff s, Wyoming, to be submitted to the State L oan and
Investment Board for the 2013 - 2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding in the amount of
$16,500.00 for the Pine B luffs Airport Fence Thrasher Project -- re ferred to F inance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department,
Transit Division, and Radio Eng ineering Industries, Inc., to provide Computer A ided Scheduling
Software with Mobile Data Terminals (Transit Federal funds).  Joe D ougherty, Cheyenne Transit
Director, advised the agreement will provide for software to be installed in 19 buses and provided
information o n a reas o f i mprovement t hat w ill be  re alized r elative to c ustomer s ervice, r oute
efficiency, trip counts, etc.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved
to amend by substitute agreement dated Jan 31, 2014, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  It was advised the
substitute provides for clarification of insurance provisions.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body. (#6123)  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and The Hartford for life and supplemental insurance
coverage for full-time City employees -- referred to Finance Committee.

[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks & Recreation Department, Leisure Services
Division, and Kleen- Tech Service s, to provide janitorial ser vices for  the Youth Activit y and
Community Center -- referred to Finance Committee.     
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne on behalf of the Metropolitan
Planning Or ganization and Fe hr &  Peers f or t he Pershing  Boule vard Complete Stree t Plan
(Metropolitan Planning Organization Planning Funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City  of Cheyenne and the Wy oming Department of
Transportation for epoxy striping (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Professional Services Contract No. 5917 between the City of Cheyenne,
Metropolitan Planning Organization, and Ayres Associates, Inc. for the Dell Range Corridor Study,
Phase II (Federal MPO funds, Federal Highway Safety Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $54,760.00). (#5917)
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Professional Services Contract No. 5912 between the City of Cheyenne,
Metropolitan Planning Organization, and Russell + Mills Studio for the Lincolnway Placemaking:
Downtown Pedestrian and Urban Design Plan, Phase  II (Metropolitan Planning Or ganization
Planning Funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Professional Services Contract No. 6054 between the City of Cheyenne
on behalf of the Metr opolitan Planning Or ganization and AVI  Professional Corpora tion for the
Division Avenue Corridor/Wallick Road Design Plan (Metropolitan Planning Organization Planning
Funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-12-14 for constructing a wood structure, metal siding building,
(pole barn) for the City  of Cheyenne, Parks & Rec reation Department, Urban F orestry Division
(2011-2014 1%  Sales Tax & Contrac tual Maintenance Account Urban Forestry).  Mot ion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from DC Construction, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in an amount
not to exceed $81,977.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-13-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works
Department, and Monument Builders, Inc., of Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Household Hazardous
Waste Fa cility, Si tework, and Unde rground Storag e Ta nk Replace ment Project (State &  Local
Grants) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-12-14 for furnishing one new mobile command unit for the City of
Cheyenne, Police Department (Law Enforcement Grants) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration to purchase EvidenceOnQ for the Cheyenne Police Department from FileOnQ
(Impact Assistance funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, February 24, 2014 at 6:00
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for renewal of existing City
liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resor t, bar a nd grill licenses, and micr obrewery
permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.
Announcement was made that due to the Presidents’ Holiday on Monday, February 17, 2014,
regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the Municipal Building,
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee will meet
Tuesday, February 18, 2014 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday,
February 19, 2014 at Noon.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 7:49 p.m.
 Submitted by,
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 February 24, 2014