MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-02-24 | CLIP_ID: 415 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 415

  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 February 24, 2014
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: MAYOR - Richard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing  body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member  of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Dr. Rinne and Ms. B royles, Agenda Item #20(c) was r emoved from the Consent Ag enda.  Upon
request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by Ms. Broyles and Mr. Shanor, Agenda Item
#23(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Ms. Broyles moved to approve remaining Consent
Agenda items, sec onded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Moti on carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all members of  the
governing body.  Mayor Kaysen advised that Agenda Item #19 (Resolution Adopting PlanCheyenne:
Reflections and Progress) on the Consent Agenda that was referred to Committee of the Whole would
be reviewed and discussed at the Committee meeting, open to the public for comments, scheduled
to be held Tuesday, March 4, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 10, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Council Chambers.  Mr.  Valdez moved to appr ove pay ment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to Tatanka
Historical Associates Inc., Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, advised the vouc her was for
services involving historic structure analysis required by SHPO (State Historic Preservation Office),
affiliated with utilization of CDBG (Community Development Block Grant) funding, for the West
Edge Project area.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in
Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a Public Hearing to receive comments and input for renewal of existing
City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, and microbrewery
permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  Pursuant to inquiry regarding the police chief’s annual
report concerning compliance checks involving on-site attempted purchases of alcohol by underage
individuals through the Department’s compliance program, Detective John Gay, Cheyenne Police
Department and Alcohol Compliance Officer, provided information regarding violations relative to
certain licensee s; warr ants and summonses that had be en i ssued for  the re porting time frame ;
summons pr ocedures; how compliance  inspections are  conducte d, and g eneral proc edures and
assistance to licensees regarding corrective measures.  Comments followed regarding TIPS training
and servers being allowed to serve alcohol before they have gone through the training and addressing
the issue through state legislation or by City Council review and action.  Kevin Beers, Cadillac Ranch
Bar owner, reviewed TIPS training time frames for his staff and a reward program he offers to
patrons for notification of underage individuals in the bar.  Bryan Grzegorczyk, Alf’s Pub and
Package Liquor, discussed kee ping the community safe and questioned what c onstitutes a sa les
“transaction” with regard to attempted alcohol pur chases by underage individuals resulting  in a
written citation being issued.  Chief B rian Kozak, Police Department, clarified a violation occurs
when the a lcohol is  delivered or ser ved to the under age individual and timing of  the monetar y
exchange for the sale does not matter.  Comments continued on those licensees that had received
compliance check violations and procedures before the governing body that are implemented after
a third violation within a year.  Upon inquiry, Chief Kozak clarified that pursuant to City Code the
Chief provides notification to City Council if a third violation occurs, and noted that those licensees
who have received two violations as noted in the report will have follow-up compliance checks.
Among comments expressed was concern that parents are taking underage children into package
stores within the City  in violation of City Code.  The re being no f urther comments or input and
purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the
applications to Finance Committee.  He noted the Committee will meet to review the applications
on Monday, March 3, 2014 in Room 122, Municipal Building, at 11:00 a.m.
ORDINANCE - A mending t he Cheyenne Unified De velopment Code (UD C), to adopt
amendments to increase the maximum Administrative Adjustment from 10% to 50% for infill and
redevelopment as initiated from the 2013 annual review.  Albert Simpson expressed his concern with
reducing standards and suggested the authority be left to the landowner  on what they  want to do
within the 50% limit.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Shanor, seconded by Ms. Broyles, moved
to amend by substitute ordinance by renumbering the current Section 7 to 8, and inserting a  new
Section 7 with the following language:  “In cases where more than 25% of administrative adjustment
is exercised, the developer will be required to notify all property owners within 140 feet of the subject
area boundaries, excluding rights-of-way.”.  B oyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, spoke in
opposition to the amendment, commenting on the current process involving sign notification placed
on the property, that the amendment potentially promotes neighbor activism, and the need to protect
use of property for owners.  Jim Weaver, #1 Properties and commercial real estate broker, questioned
the intent and purpose of the proposed mailing notice requirement by the developer, and what the
next process would be by  staff if r esponses are received as a  result of the notice .  I n response,
Brandon Camm arata, Planning and De velopment Dire ctor, e xpressed that the mailed notice
requirement may seem disproportionate to the minor adjustments being attempted to be addressed;
that the notice may  increase approval times, and that ther e is nothing spe cified regarding a staff
and/or Council process relative to responses being received as a result of the notices.  Jan Nelson-
Schroll commented on property and neighborhood aesthetics, and balancing the rights and interests
of developing property owners and those of neighboring owners.  Comments followed on the intent
of the proposed amendment involving mailed notices; provisions of Wyo. Statute Section 15-1-603,
and wording contained in UDC Section 2.3.4 b. 3.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised
it was his understanding that the 140 ft. notification referenced in state statute concerns zone changes,
and commented that the purpose (i.e. ordinance topic generally) is a less significant change, dealing
with an administrative change during a site plan process.  M otion to amend by substitute failed.
Voting “yes” -- Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr.
Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend Section
7 by replacing the 12 month time period with 18 months, seconded by  Mr. Allen.  Explanation
followed on extending the ordinance “sunset” time period to allow for coordination with the annual
UDC review process with public input.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the g overning body.  Main motion , as amended, carried.  Voting  “yes” - - all member s of the
governing body. (#4020)
 
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of the Chey enne Unified Development Code
(UDC), to add an Urban Loft Lot Type (NB3) and “Urban Loft Building” definition, allowed as a Use
Permitted By Right and Use Permitted after Conditional Discretionary Review in Residential, Mixed
Use and Neighborhood Business districts.  Albert Simpson expressed objection to the governing body
establishing  maximum setbacks, noting this should be determined by the property owner, and stated
his observation that a parking spot should be required for every bedroom affiliated with a project.
Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Mr. Shanor moved
to amend Table 5-1 by adding “C”-Use permitted after conditional discretionary review in the CBD
column for Urban Loft Building, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.  Main motion, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#4021)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom CB  Com munity B usiness to MU R Mi xed-Use
Residential Emphasis for the south 79 feet of Lot 8, Block 311, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of E. 18  Street and Logan Avenue).th   Mr. Shanor
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.  
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to LI Light Industrial for Lot
1, Block 1, Public Works Addition, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located on the west side of North College
Drive).  Jean Vetter, High Plains Design, agent for the applicant, provided a brief description of the
project and area involved (i.e. Transfer Station), advising the zone change will allow for conformance
with use of the property.  Ms. Vetter explained the types of hazardous household wastes that will be
collected and stored on the property and described generally the City’s current hazardous household
waste collection program; benefits of the new facility and services for the public, and project phases
and funding .  Anthony  Rey es, Riske and Salisbury  L aw F irm, repr esenting D avid W. Trefr en
Revocable Trust and Dale D. Trefren Revocable Trust, advised they were opposed to the initial zone
change proposed, but since it has been amended to LI they have no objection at this time.  Mr. Shanor
moved to approve  on second r eading, seconde d by  Mr. Allen.  Conce rn w as raised r egarding
comments received by the various reviewing agencies included as part of the staff report.  Upon
inquiry, Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, provided information on the zone
change p rocess t hrough t he P lanning C ommission, w hich i ncludes p ublic i nput, a nd f acility
expansion purpose.  He explained the difference between the waste transfer station and household
hazardous waste facility and indicated the reason for the initial CB zone classification many years
ago was unknown; that the gate on Avenue D would provide access to the facility itself and would
not be a public right-of-way access, and that comments by reviewing agencies would be addressed
through the site plan review process.  Upon query, Craig LaVoy, Public Works Department, advised
it is hard to determine how much hazardous household waste is being collected through sanitation
pickups and that expansion of services to the public will be an incentive to residents to not include
these items i n solid waste/regular garbage pickups, whic h may contaminate la ndfills.  Com ment
followed on the ne w facility providing for e xpanded hours of servic e to the public to enc ourage
correct disposal of hazardous items.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in support
of the a pplication of the B oard of County Commissioners of L aramie County, Wyoming, to be
submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for the 2013 - 2014 Countywide Consensus Block
Grant funding in the amount of $31,430.00 for the Laramie County Historic Courthouse roof.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5566)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in support
of the a pplication of the Town of Pine Bluffs, Wyoming, to be submitted to the State L oan and
Investment Board for the 2013 - 2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding in the amount of
$16,500.00 for the Pine B luffs Airport Fence Thrasher Project.  Moti on (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5567)
[CA] RESOLUTION - D eclaring as surplus a City -owned prope rty located at 1700 and 1710
Snyder Avenue, legally described as all of Lot 8, Block 348, Original City, together w ith
improvements thereon, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and authorizing the City's Purchasing
Director to proceed with the sale of said parcel pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §15-1-112 -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Amending the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities Construction
Specifications and Standard Dr awings, 2007 Edition -- ref erred to Public Service s Commi ttee
(sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Gov erning Body of the City  of Chey enne to a dopt the
revised Statement of Investment Policy -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Amending Resolution No. 5399 pertaining  to adoption of new body art
special event license and guest body artist permit fees by Cheyenne-Laramie County Board of Health
for various services and inspections -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the City  of Chey enne to a pprove and accept the Wy oming
Division of Victim Services Funding Application State Fiscal Year 2015 and 2016, July 1, 2014 to
June 30, 2016 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting PlanCheyenne: Reflections and Progress, as the Community Plan
for the City  of Chey enne, the  Comprehensive Plan for  portions of L aramie County , and the
Transportation Master Plan for the Cheyenne Urban area -- referred to Committee of the Whole
(sponsors -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne).
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and The Hartford for life and supplemental insurance
coverage for full-time City employees.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6127).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks & Recreation Department, Leisure Services
Division, and Kleen- Tech Services, to provide janitorial ser vices for  the Youth Activity  and
Community Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6128)
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne on behalf of the Metropolitan
Planning Organization and Fe hr &  Peers f or the Pershing  Boule vard Complete Stree t Plan
(Metropolitan Planning Organization Planning Funds).  Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount
not to ex ceed $39,866.00, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. B rown moved to a mend by substitute,
seconded by Mr. Al len.  Tom Mason, MPO Director , advised the substitute revise s para graph
wording at the end of the contract, under Section #40.  During comment on past and current upgrades
to sections of Pershing Blvd. and timing of the proposed plan, Mr. Allen raised a point of order that
comments were not related to the motion to amend on the floor with Mayor Kaysen concurring.
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of
Ms. Williams voting “no”.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Mason advised this particular project is the result of
concerns brought to the governing body by citizens/businesses in the area which resulted in a request
to the MPO to look into a plan, noting concerns raised included safety of those crossing the street and
traveling along the street.  He  verified the main Plan focus a rea, plus ex tended area, that will be
involved, and provided his interpretation of the meaning of a “Complete Street Plan”.  Main motion,
as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#6129) 
 
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and the Wy oming Department of
Transportation for epoxy striping (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Age nda)
carried. (#6130) 
[CA] Memorandum of Under standing betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks & Rec reation
Administration Department, and  Laramie County, Wyoming, to provide funding for the division of
responsibilities to complete the Polk Avenue project -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks & Rec reation
Administration Department, and WC Investments, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to provide funding for
the division of responsibilities to complete the Polk Avenue project -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Design-Build Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Alliance Construction Solutions
of Wyoming, LLC, for a pedestrian access bridge to connect the Jack R. Spiker Downtown Parking
Structure with hotel facilities (Grant, repaid loan money) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Amendment No. 1 to Professional Services Contract No. 5912 between the City of Cheyenne,
Metropolitan Planning Organization, and Russell + Mills Studio for the Lincolnway Placemaking:
Downtown Pedestria n and Ur ban De sign Plan, Phase I I (Metropolit an Planning Org anization
Planning Funds).  Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $76,824.00, seconded
by Ms. Broy les.  Motion carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body with the
exception of Mr. Luna voting “no”. (#5912) 
Amendment No. 1 to Professional Services Contract No. 6054 between the City of Cheyenne
on behalf of the Metr opolitan Planning Organization and AVI  Professional Corpora tion for the
Division Avenue Corridor/Wallick Road Design Plan (Metropolitan Planning Organization Planning
Funds).  Mr . Brown moved to approve in an amo unt not to exceed $9,095.00, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Upon inquiry , Tom Mason, MPO Direc tor, advised the amendment will add additional
services to provide for meetings with property owners along the corridor; graphics as a result of those
meetings, and surveying of public/private boundaries.  He clarified the funding source is M PO
planning money.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body with the
exception of Mr. Luna voting “no”. (#6054)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 5181 between the City of Cheyenne, Municipal
Court, and New World Systems for software maintenance -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-13-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works
Department, and Monument B uilders, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Household Hazardous
Waste Fa cility, Sitework, and Und erground Storag e Ta nk Replace ment Project (State &  Local
Grants).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a ccept bid in an amount not to ex ceed
$2,125,260.00). (#6131)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-12-14 for furnishing one new mobile command unit for the City of
Cheyenne, Police Department (Law Enforcement Grants).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried
(accept bid fr om Far ber Spec ialty Vehicle s, Renoldsburg , OH, in an a mount not to ex ceed
$449,000.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-10-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks &
Recreation Department, and Reiman Corp & Subsidiary of Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Polk Avenue
Greenway Project (State & Local Grants; 1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
Transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office
for Minglemill, Inc. d/b/a Mingles, 1618 Stillwater Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently
held by Stillwater, Inc. d/b/a Mingles, 1618 Stillwater Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Mr. Brown
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, and Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised that prior stipulations and restrictions placed last year by the governing
body on the cur rent licensee (Stillwater, Inc.) had expired, and did not apply  to the new lice nsee
(Minglemill, Inc.).  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Consideration to purchase (by contract) EvidenceOnQ for the Cheyenne Police Department
from FileOnQ (Impact Assistance funds).  M otion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to
exceed $39,995.00). (#6133)
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointment of Tucker Fagan to the City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming- Laramie County, State of Wyoming Joint Powers Board for Frontier Park improvements,
to be confirmed March 10, 2014. 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 7:25  p.m.
Submitted by,
  
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 March 6, 2014