MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-03-10 | CLIP_ID: 417 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 417

   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 March 10, 2014
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: MAYOR - Richard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Dr. Rinne moved to suspend the rules to change the order of the agenda by moving Agenda
Item #14 (Resolution - Adopting PlanCheye nne) to be acted upon subsequent to Agenda Item #26
(a) (Re-Appointment) and prior to Other Business, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing  body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member  of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Dr. Rinne and Mr. Allen, Agenda Item #22(b)  was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Allen
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 24, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Ms. Broyles moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to Ross,
Ross and Santini, Dan White, City Attorney, advised the law firm is on retainer by contract to provide
Municipal Court public defender fees, and explained when services are provided.  In conjunction with
a voucher payable to Benchmark Engineers, request was made to provide City Council members with
an update on the Christensen Road  Overpass and Corridor pr oject with May or Kaysen advising
information would be provided by the City Engineer and noting an update on the Public Safety Center
would be provided at a work session scheduled for March 26.  In response to query concerning a
voucher payable to CDW-G Computing Solutions, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, confirmed that payment
was for costs associated with the purchase of multiple items.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote,
Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom CB  Com munity B usiness t o M UR Mixe d-Use
Residential Emphasis for the south 79 feet of Lot 8, Block 311, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of E. 18  Street and Logan Avenue).th   Reporting
for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded
by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  (#4022)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to LI Light Industrial for Lot
1, Block 1, Public Works Addition, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located on the west side of North College
Drive).  Anthony Reyes, Riske and Salisbury  Law Firm, representing David Trefren and various
trusts he administers, clarified they support the LI zone amendment.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Reyes confirmed at this point
Mr. Trefren does not have  a concern with the propose d LI zone, noting Mr. Tr efren does have a
concern as his residence is in the vicinity, and stated his belief that the gate to be placed on Avenue
D will be locate d upon the weig h station prop erty.  Upon inquiry , Craig LaVoy, Public W orks
Department, stated the road (re: Avenue D) currently is not required to be paved under Phase I of the
project, but under Phase II and III it may be considered, and verified the gate/road portion will not
be for public use.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4023)
[CA] RESOLUTION - D eclaring as surplus a City -owned property located a t 1700 and 1710
Snyder A venue, legally de scribed a s a ll o f L ot 8 , B lock 3 48, O riginal Cit y, to gether w ith
improvements thereon, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and authorizing the City's Purchasing
Director to proceed with the sale of sa id parcel pursuant to Wy o. Stat. §15-1-112.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5568)
RESOLUTION - Amending the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities Construction
Specifications and Standard Drawings, 2007 Edition.  Mr. Shanor moved to adopt, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Mr. Shanor  moved to amend by replacing Standard Drawing Nos. 02665-24 and 02665-
15 with updated drawings dated February 2014, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion to amend carried.
Voting “ yes” - - all member s of the g overning body.  Comment followed on the leng th of the
document and allowing time for further review.  Ms. Broyles moved to postpone for two weeks.
Motion failed due to lac k of a se cond.  Inquiry was made regarding proposed changes to various
sections within the Specifica tions concerning safety, sediment erosion c ontrol and storm wate r
management, aggregates, potholes, and guarantees/warranties.  Nathan Beauheim, City Engineer’s
office, provided information on the proposed changes; types of aggregate being required; pothole and
pavement patching by contractors, and asphalt patching requirements.  Upon furthe r inquiry, Mr.
Beauheim expl ained time fr ames involving  g uarantees/warranties for a sphalt or conc rete work
provided by contractors, project “walk-through” and inspection procedures, and pothole patching by
City crews.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
with the exception of Ms. Broyles voting “no”. (#5569)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Gover ning Body of the Ci ty of Cheyenne to a dopt the
revised Statement of Investment Policy.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5570)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Amending Resolution No. 5399 pertaining  to adoption of new body  art
special event license and guest body artist permit fees by Cheyenne-Laramie County Board of Health
for various services and inspections.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5571)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the C ity of Chey enne to a pprove and accept the Wy oming
Division of Victim Services Funding Application State Fiscal Year 2015 and 2016, July 1, 2014 to
June 30, 2016.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5572)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Deerhaven Subdivision, 3  Filing, a replat of Deerhaven Subdivision, 2  Filing, Laramie County,rd nd
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Montalto Drive and E. F ox Farm
Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Capitol
Ridge, a replat of all of Lots 1-24, Block 14, Interior Heights Addition, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
at the northwest corner of the intersection of W. 4th Street and Cribbon Avenue) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the M ayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for T he
Bluffs,  9  Filing, a replat of Lots 13 thru 16, Block 3 and Lots 8 thru 15, Block 8, The Bluffs, 7th th
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Point Bluff, between Foothills and Plain
View Roads) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor and  City  Cle rk to e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) Grant Agreement in order to fund the 2014
Historic Cheyenne Film Contest Project -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd City  Clerk to  e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) Grant Agreement in order to fund design of
a new Cheyenne Historic Preservation Board logo and design and produc tion of new broc hures
relating to Historic Preservation in the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budg et of the City  of Chey enne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4- 113 -- r eferred to Financ e Committ ee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Pronghorn Crossing, a replat of Lots 15 & 16, Block 17, Crest Ridge, 4th
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Storey Boulevard, west of Ridge Road)
-- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Unde rstanding betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks & Rec reation
Administration Department, and  Laramie County, Wyoming, to provide funding for the division of
responsibilities to complete the Polk Avenue project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $277,958.36). (#6134)
Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Parks & R ecreation
Administration Department, and WC Investments, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to provide funding for
the division of responsibiliti es to complete the  Polk Avenue proje ct.  Rep orting for Finance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $66,787.34, seconded by Mr.
Valdez.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute dated March 6, 2014, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Upon inquiry, Jeff Wiggins, Parks and Recr eation Department, reviewed the items that had bee n
changed and included in the proposed substitute involving the payment schedule, furnishing of a
letter of credit, and clarification of landscaping and maintenance responsibilities.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended ca rried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#6135)
[CA] Design-Build Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Alliance Construction Solutions
of Wyoming, LLC, for a pedestrian access bridge to connect the Jack R. Spiker Downtown Parking
Structure with hotel facilities (Grant, repaid loan money).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#6136)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Orion Planning Group
to provide an ordinance update for Historic Preservation Regulations (CLG Grant) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and TischlerBise to provide
a Development Impact Fee Study (Impact Assistance Funds and MPO Funds) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City prisoners at the Laramie County
Detention Center -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between Laramie County, Wyoming, and the City of Cheyenne
-- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Contingency and Development Agreement, City of Cheyenne and Searing Industries, to be
submitted to the Wyoming Business Council in connection with Business Ready Communities-
Business Committed Grant and Loan program for the Swan Ranch Rail Spur Project (Business &
Community Ready Grants) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amended and Restated Project Development and Administration Agreement between the City
of Cheyenne, Cheyenne-Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS), and
Granite Peak Development Limited Partnership, to be submitted to the Wyoming Business Council
in connection with the Business Ready Communities-Business Committed Grant and Loan program
for the Swan Ranch Rail Spur Project (Business & Community Ready Grants) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Track Lease Agreement between the City  of Cheyenne, CLH, LLC, a Wy oming Limited
Liability Company, and Granite Peak Development L imited Par tnership, a Wyoming L imited
Partnership, f or rail f acilities w ithin S wan Ra nch Ra il Pa rk, Ch eyenne, Wyoming (Business &
Community Ready Grants) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 5181 between the City of Cheyenne, Municipal
Court, and New World Systems for software maintenance.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5181)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5907 between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and AV I Professional Corpora tion for additional desig n wo rk and c onstruction
management services for the Snyder Reconstruction Design Project (2007 - 2010 1% Sales Tax) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 6089 between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department,
and the  Sta te of  Wyoming Department o f T ransportation, Hi ghway Sa fety Pr ogram f or mob ile
impaired command post (Highway Safety Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration o f B id # M-10-14 for a  c ontract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Department, and Reiman Corp & Subsidiary of Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Polk Avenue
Greenway Project (State &  Local Grants; 1% Specific Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $706,166.03). (#6137)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-15-14 for annual purchase of furnishing aggregate for the Street and
Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-16-14 for annual purchase of  hot mix, tack oil and cold mix for the
Street and Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
    
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-19-14 for f urnishing 76 ne w desktop computer s for the City  of
Cheyenne, Information Technology Division, pursuant to the City ’s replacement program (2011 -
2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Renewal of existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort,  bar and grill
liquor licenses and microbrewery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  T he name of said
applicant, type of license and description of premises which applicant desires to use as the place of
sale are set forth as follows: High Plains Entertainment, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package
Liquor, retail, 2105 E. Lincolnway; Cheyenne Vail Investments, Inc. d/b/a Gus & Jon’s Crown Bar,
retail, 222 West Lincolnway; Poor Richard's d/b/a Poor Richard’s, retail, 2233 E. Lincolnway; W.W.
Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Les’ Lamp Lounge and Drive-In Liquor, retail, 101 W. 6th St.; The Blue Bird,
Inc . d/b/a Uncle Charlie's, retail, 6001 Yellowstone Road; Langhoff Enterprises d/b/a Two Bar Bowl,
retail, 700 E. Carlson; Cadillac Ranch Bar, Inc. d/b/a Cadillac Ranch Bar, retail, 3307 Nationway;
Fraternal Order of Eagles Aerie #128, ltd. retail, 1600 Thomes Ave.; B.P.O. Elks #660, ltd. retail, 100
E. 1 7th St .; W . E . D inneen, I nc. d/b/a W.  E . D inneen, I nc. Pa ckage L iquor, r etail, 4 00 W.
Lincolnway; KEG, Inc. d/b/a D.T.’s Liquor Mart & Tusker Bar, retail, 3310 Ridge Road; JKLL, Inc.
d/b/a The Drunken Skunk, retail, 1617 Capitol Ave.; Twin Dragon Chinese Rest., Inc. d/b/a Twin
Dragon, rest., 1809 Carey Avenue; South Side Bar, Inc. d/b/a Keg 'n Kork Liquors, retail, 822 Central
Ave.; Rande’s Ritz, LLC d/b/a Midtown Tavern, retail, 1303 E. Pershing Blvd.; Cheyenne Country
Club, ltd. retail, 800 Stinner Road; F & G Corp. d/b/a The Green Door, retail, 301 E. Lincolnway;
ENI, Inc. d/b/a Eagle's Nest, retail, 1101 W. Lincolnway; Outback Steakhouse of Florida, LLC d/b/a
Outback Steakhouse, retail, 1626 Fleischli Parkway; Lambousis Revocable Trust, retail, 112 W. 17th
St.; Four Winds, Inc. d/b/a Four Winds, retail, 1103 E. Pershing ; EKG, Inc. d/b/a D.T.'s Package
Liquor and Lounge, retail, 2121 E. Lincolnway; Alf in Wyoming Enterprise, LLC d/b/a Alf's Pub and
Package Liquor, retail, 1622 E. 19th St.; Flatland Investments, LLC d/b/a Godfather's Pizza, rest.,
5719 Yellowstone Road; Francis E. Self Post #6 d/b/a The American Legion Post #6, ltd. retail, 2001
E. Lincolnway; The Peaks Cafe II, LLC d/b/a The Peaks Cafe II at the Airport, rest., 300 E. 8th Ave.;
F.E. Warren Post #1881 d/b/a V.F.W. Post #1881, ltd. retail, 2816 E. 7th St.; Knights of Columbus
Council #801 d/b/a Casey's Club, ltd. retail, 507 W. 28th St.; Blanne Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Cool
River Wine & Spirits, retail, 5225 Yellowstone Rd.; Re-o-na Sushi and Thai d/b/a Re-o-na Sushi Bar
and Thai Cuisine, rest., 112 W. 17th St.; Los Abuelos Mexican Restaurant, LLC d/b/a Los Abuelos
Mexican Restaurant, retail, 1601 Central Ave.; Airport Golf Club, Inc., ltd. retail, 4801 Central Ave.;
Katrina M. and Adam L. Howell d/b/a Scooter's Scoreboard Bar, retail, 507 E. Lincolnway; Cloud
9, Inc. d/b/a Cloud 9 Liquorland, retail, 1958 Dell Range Blvd. #C; Texas Roadhouse Holdings, LLC
d/b/a Texas Roadhouse, retail, 1931 Bluegrass Circle; HEJE, Inc.d/b/a Outlaw Liquors, retail, 4503
Western Way; KZ Corporation d/b/a Daisy Duke’s, retail, 2801 E. Lincolnway; Minglemill, Inc. d/b/a
Mingles, retail, 1618 Stillwater Ave.; Prairie View Golf Club, ltd. retail, 3600 Windmill Road;
Albany, Inc. d/b/a Albany Rest., Bar and Liquormart, retail, 1506 Capitol Ave.; Mehn, Inc. d/b/a Casa
De Garcia, rest., 122 W. 6th St .; S&W Properties, LLC d/b/a Vinos W ine and Spirits, retail, 453
Vandehei Ave., #190;  The Plains Hotel Co., LLC d/b/a The Plains Hotel, resort, 1600 Central Ave.;
Anong & Brett Larsen d/b/a Anong’s Thai Cuisine, rest., 620 Central Ave.; Avanti, Inc. d/b/a Dell
Range Liquor, retail, 3806 Dell Range Blvd., Suite 4; Pizza Hut on Yellowstone, Inc, rest., 5320
Yellowstone Rd.; Hotel West I , LP d/b/a Holiday  Inn Cheyenne, resort, 204 W. Fox Farm Rd.;
AMVETS Post #10, ltd. retail, 3839 E. Lincolnway; Moreno & Reyes, LLC d/b/a Guadalajara Family
Mexican Rest., rest., 1745 Dell Rang e Blvd.; Pizza Hut of Cheyenne, Inc. d/b/a Pizz a Hut/Wing
Street, rest., 4503 Western Way; 2 Doors Down 2, Inc. d/b/a 2 Doors Down 2, rest., 1802 Dell Range
Blvd., #2;  Morris House  Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Morr is House B istro, rest., 2114 Warre n Ave.;
Bighorn Associa tes, L C d/b/a Chil i's Southwest Gr ill and Ba r, re tail, 1320 Dell R ange B lvd.;
Appaloosa Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Sanford’s Grub & Pub, retail, 115 E. 17th St.; Maria Ramos d/b/a
El Charrito Mexican Restaurant, rest., 216 E. 17th St.; RMH Franchise Corporation d/b/a Applebee's
Neighborhood Grill and Bar, retail, 1401 Dell Range Blvd.; Delilah R. Pineda d/b/a Estevan's Cafe,
rest., 1820 Ridge Road; GMRI, Inc. d/b/a Red Lobster #639, retail, 1923 Dell Range Blvd.; Dynasty
Café, Inc. d/b/a Dynasty Cafe, rest., 600 W. 19  St.; Mondello Corporation d/b/a L’Osteria Mondello,th
rest., 1507 Stillwater; China Buffet, Inc. d/b/a China Buffet, rest., 1958 Dell Range Blvd.; Shadows
Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Shadows Pub & Grill, rest., 115 W. 15th St., #1; Steamboat’s, LLC d/b/a
Steamboat’s Wyoming Steak and Smoke House, r etail, 1947 Dell Rang e B lvd.; Nag le-Warren
Mansion, LLC d/b/a Nagle-Warren Mansion LLC, rest., 222 East 17  St.;Wadsworth Old Chicago,th
Inc. d/b/a Old Chicago Rest., retail, 1734 Meadowland Dr.;  Sandra J. Innis d/b/a 2 Doors Down,
rest., 118 E. 17th St.; Soo Hyun Choi,  LLC d/b/a Tokyo Bowl, rest., 1829 Dell Range Blvd.; Jerry
P. Innis d/b/a Pizzeria Venti, rest., 112 E. 17  St.; Shadows Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Shadows Pubth
& Grill, microbrewery, 115 W. 15th St.; Freedoms Edge Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Freedoms Edge
Brewing Co., microbrewery, 301 W. L incolnway; OG of Cheyenne, Inc. d/b/a The Olive Garden
Italian Rest., ba r & grill, 1536 Dell Range Blvd.; Moreno and Aguilar, LLC d/b/ a H acienda
Guadalajara, bar & grill, 317 E. Lincolnway; O’Jackson’s, Inc. d/b/a  Jackson’s All American Sports
Bar & Grill, bar & grill, 1121 Old Town Lane; Blazin Wings, Inc. d/b/a Buffalo Wild Wings Grill
& Bar, bar & grill, 1740 Prairie Ave.; The Suite, LLC d/b/a The Suite, bar & grill, 1901 Central Ave.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Re-Appointment of Tucker Fagan to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming- Laramie County, State
of Wyoming Joint Powers Board for Frontier Park improvements.  Ms. Broyles moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
RESOLUTION - Adopting PlanCheyenne: Reflections and Progress, as the Community Plan
for the City  of Chey enne, the  Comprehensive Plan for  portions of L aramie County , and the
Transportation Master Plan for the Cheyenne Urban area.  Prior to calling  for public input on the
item, Mayor Kaysen reviewed public participation speaker guidelines that would apply, including a
time limit of 5 minutes per speaker, due to the number of attendees wishing to provide comments.
The following individuals spoke in support, non-support or in favor of making amendments to the
PlanCheyenne document presented for a doption by the proposed r esolution:  Tim Bielig k; John
Carey; Chris McCall; Carol Matteson Pascal; Glen Chavez; John Volk; Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming
Liberty Group; Frank Cole; Earl Leighan; Lisa Ammons; Joe Dougherty, City Transit program;
Celeste Siemens; Stacy Lynne; Jim Lake; Karen Walden; Laura Jeffrey, South Cheyenne Community
Development Association (SCCDA); Jan Nelson-Schroll; Cheryl Burd; State Representative Mary
Throne; Mike Tuttle; Taylor Haynes; Dick Krahenbuhl; Thomas Hutchings; Tyler Troyer; Lorraine
Grigsby; Laramie County Commissioner M. Lee Hasenauer; State Representative Lynn Hutchings;
Betty Scranton; Albert Simpson; Ken Trowbridge; Judy Meyer; Jeff Moench, and Pete Laybourn.
Topics presented by speakers included the following: Protection of private property owner rights,
liberties and f reedom; U.S. and state constitutional concer ns; community plan as a  guideline for
growth, progress and improvements; infrastructure; public input process; market demand; non-local
consultant firm involved in preparation of the proposed plan; Metropolitan Planning Organization
(MPO) involvement and administrative oversight of the MPO; federal and state funding concerns;
proposed design standards; suggested amendments to the Transportation Master Plan portion of the
document; concern with potential plan effect on disabled, senior and minority populations within the
community, elements of the plan involving complete streets, bike lanes, and amenities such as parks,
trails and open spaces; federal funding support for the transit program; providing choices for private
property owners; state’s recent property issue involving the Environmental Protection A gency;
comparison of proposed City plan to the City of Fort Collins, Colorado, plan; MPO administrative
oversight; opposition to annexation; s upport for r etaining the community’s western heritage and
benefits of tourism; proposed amendments requested by the SCCDA; historic preservation; fair and
appropriate implementation of the plan; philosophy of reasonable growth and planning; concern with
impeding flow of traffic in certain areas, including the downtown area; bicyclist and youth safety;
vision and quality of life issues affiliated with a plan document; free enterprise; suggestion that plan
be voted upon by electors; striking the word “regional” throughout the document; incorporating a
glossary of words a nd phrases within the document; United Nations Agenda  21; sugg estion of
forming a citizens commi ttee; beneficial use of f ederal funds, and c omplexity and leng th of the
PlanCheyenne document.  During  public comments, sever al documents we re read, submitted or
referenced, which are on file with the City Clerk’s office.  Reporting for Committee of the Whole,
Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown.  D r. Rinne moved to amend by substitute
resolution dated March 4, 2014, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  It was advised the amendments being
proposed remove some of the restrictive language, such as removing the word “shall” and replacing
it with “should” or “may” as debated at the Committee of the Whole meeting, and addresses issues
involving priva te prope rty rig hts, due defe rence to marke t force s and the priva te sec tor, and
affordable housing and development costs.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” --
Mr. Allen, Mr. B rown, Ms. Broy les, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor , Mr. Valde z and May or
Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Luna and Ms. Williams.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend the substitute to
incorporate Exhi bit A-Amendments date d March  4, 2014, seconde d by  Ms. Broy les.  I t was
confirmed Exhibit A-Amendments was the same document as reviewed and recommended at the
Committee of the Whole meeting.  Ms. Lynne requested clarification on whether there was more than
one Exhibit A.  Dan White, City  Attorney, advised Exhibit  A re ferenced in the resolution is the
PlanCheyenne document and E xhibit A-Amendments is the document involved in the propose d
amendment, which would be an exhibit attached to PlanCheyenne as text amendments.  Ms. Lynne
questioned whether it would be possible to re-name one of the exhibits for clarity of the public on
what is being voted upon.  Discussion included that Exhibit A referenced in the resolution was the
PlanCheyenne document itself and that the document titled Exhibit A-Amendments 3/4/14 involves
17 proposed amendments to the PlanCheyenne (Exhibit A) document.  During discussion, Mr. Allen
raised a point of order inquiring whether a motion had been made or was needed to change the title
of Exhibit A to Exhibit B.  Mayor Kaysen stated a motion could be made.  There being no motion
offered, Mayor Kaysen advised that through discussion, which had included his query to City Council
members and Mr. White concerning any objections to referring to the exhibit as Exhibit B, which
resulted in no objections being raised, that Exhibit A-Amendments would be referred to as Exhibit
B relative to clarification for the public and an understanding by governing body members on what
document was involved in the motion t o amend currently on the floor.  Motion to amend carried.
Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez
and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Luna and Ms. Williams.  Ms. Williams moved to amend the
PlanCheyenne document, Page 17, Plan Amendment Process and Procedures, as follows: (Proposed
Amendment #1) A mendments to PlanChey enne that occur outside of a r egular Comprehensive
Review p rocess a re c onsidered to  be  Pla n A mendments.  T he City  Cou ncil a nd Cou nty
Commissioners may perform Plan A mendments as necessary.  Citizens ma y request P lan
Amendments as ne cessary.  There is no cap to the number of Plan Ame ndments annually.  The
Process is as follows:  1) A directive for an amendment by a governing body or a citizen request for
amendment occurs.  2) Staff reviews the amendment proposal, files a staff report, and forwards the
amendment request to the Planning Commission.  3) The Planning Commission shall hold a public
meeting regarding the amendment request.  4) The amendment request will go before the governing
body that will not have jurisdiction for comments only.  5) The amendment request will go before
the governing body that will have jurisdiction for action.  6) A public meeting will be held and input
will be shared by the public.  The sequence of review steps is to ensure plan consistency.  Approval
of amendments will be by resolution.  Motion died due to lack of a second.  Ms. Williams moved to
amend the PlanCheyenne document and the substitute resolution as previously amended as follows:
(Proposed Amendment #2) Include a glossary of words a nd phrases in the Communi ty Plan as
“Appendix F”.  All other supporting plans (Transportation Master Plan, etc.) will reference Appendix
F.  The glossary will consist of two parts: (1) de finitions, and (2) application impacts.  Part One :
Definitions of words that  are typically used in the planning industry will form the basis of this
glossary.  The litera l meaning of the wor d should be s tated using simple English.  The use  of
additional obscure and confusing vernacular within the definitions of the words will be a voided.
Examples of words to be defined include and are not limited to: livability, walkability, bikeability,
end of ride facility, access management, activity centers, compact design, high density housing,
bicycle box, decision-maker s, overlay  district, active tra nsportation, cultural site, c luster
development, de nsity transfe r, conse rvation over lay, natural/cultural resourc e ar ea, inc entivize,
synthesize public comments, stakeholders, smart g rowth, zero ene rgy development, sustainable ,
public engagement, best practices, models, scientific method, conservation easement, smart meters,
meeting facilitator, vehicular cycling, reframe/rescript/rebrand, and other basic words and phrases
tied to long-range planning documents.  Part Two: Each definition will include a short summary of
the application impacts as related to the concepts and intent of the words and phrases that are being
defined.  (Proposed Amendment #3) Remove planning policies and funding for items that are not
essential government services.  Removal of non-essential government services from PlanCheyenne
satisfies the legal requirements of community planning.  Essential government services are commonly
known as: Fire departments; law enforcement departments; infrastructure systems such as roads,
electricity and water; national security; care of prisoners and others who are in the custody of the
government; emerg ency and disaster  assistance; air traf fic c ontrol; border pa trol ... (Proposed
Amendment #4)  Re move the word “regional” to ensure that decision-making is based on local
control.  Change the word “regional” to “local”.  “Local” will be defined as the entire area that is
legally defined as Laramie County.  (Proposed Amendment #5) Eliminate Policy 5.3.B.  Elimination
of this policy will ensure that private land owner’s rights are protected and the housing market will
be drive n by  actua l market de mand.  Ru ral area s will be protecte d by  preve nting unna tural
“clustering” of homes.  “Clustering” is more consistent with “urban” or “suburban” development.
(Proposed Amendment #6) Eliminate the Future Historic Assets to be Surveyed and Preserved.
Allow individual private owners (both residential and business) to se ek designation for Historic
Preservation for their privately owned property.  This allows property values in Historic Districts to
be market-driven and to remain affordable.  Eliminate the process (though not described) intended
to “ Stabilize pr operty va lues in  Hi storic Districts”.  ( Proposed A mendment # 7) Re move a ll
“incentives” to “encourage infill” so that the real estate industry will be market-driven.  Eliminate
the special exception of “reduced parking requirements” so that the availability of vehicle parking
at residences is protected.  Remove discriminatory practices of expediting development applications
for infill areas.  (Proposed Amendment #8) Describe the procedures and methods that will be used
for “strongly encouraging” a developer to build homes based on the Plan’s requirements.  Add the
descriptions of the procedures and methods into the policy that will be used to strongly encourage
developers.  (Proposed Amendment #9) Eliminate Policy 2.4.A based on interference with private
property rights through use of a Future Land Use Plan that conflicts with the current landowner’s
rights.  Elimination of Policy 2.4.A will ultimately respect the legal protections provided by well-
established contract law and ex post facto laws.  ( Proposed Amendment #10) Remove “Focus on
nightlife” from the Education Policy.  (Proposed Amendment #11) Remove the offering of any and
all “incentives” to residential developers, commercial developers and small business owners.  Allow
the private market to be driven by consumer demand and protect equal competition so that market
demand is naturally fulfilled.  (Proposed Amendment #12) Remove all public funding and programs
for “art in public places” so that the creative industries are market-driven.  Allow private businesses
or individuals to sponsor and/or donate art for public use.  (Proposed Amendment #13) The Cheyenne
Area Master Plan Community Plan, Final Draft February 21, 2014, will be used as the sole reference
document (with the inclusion of all amendments passed after that date).  Specially: if and when the
“streamlined” version as titled above is adopted by the governing body, then the document referred
to as the January 2014 Draft of PlanCheyenne becomes null in its entirety.  The January 2014 Draft
of PlanCheyenne will not be used for reference by any internal city departments, internal county
departments, agencies, boards, commissions, committees, or elected bodies, nor will the January 2014
Draft be referred to for any guidance, policy, or procedures.  (Proposed Amendment #14) All future
actions and implementations required to be considered by the governing bodies as related to policies
and procedures in the Community Plan dated February 21, 2014 and including subsequently adopted
amendments, and the Transportation Plan that is dated February 21, 2014 and including subsequently
adopted amendments, will be prese nted as regul ar agenda items a nd not as items on the consent
agenda.  Each regular agenda item will contain accurate information in order to allow the elected
bodies to responsibly consider the impacts of the specific action to be implemented.  Th at basic
information w ill inc lude a nd is n ot l imited to : 1.  F unding so urce; 2.  Cos ts u sing tr aditionally
established methods of determining total project costs; 3. Confirmed availability of funds prior to
adoption by the governing body; 4. Comparisons of the impact that similar actions have had on other
Front Range Communities.  These comparisons will be made through the use of neutral, third-party
information sources.  Comparisons will not  be made through the use of insider-industry methods
commonly referred to as “best practices”; 5. Scientifically validated evidence that supports the claims
of the project goals, intent, and actions; and 6. Other relevant data that will allow elected officials to
make responsible and informed decisions for their constituents.  (Proposed Amendment #15) All
proposals, additional codes and all policy decisions related to the Transportation Plan will be founded
on actual data.  The use of transportation models to predict future congestion is based on current Land
Use Plans.  Estimations and projections of traffic congestion that will occur in the year 2040 that are
based on c urrent la nd use plans are scie ntifically invalid.  Scientifically  invalid methods and
procedures will not be used to determine transportation planning.  ( Proposed Amendment #16)
Clarify the difference between “Exhibit A” in “A Resolution Adopting PlanCheyenne ...” meaning
the document dated February 21, 2014 referred to as PlanCheyenne: Reflections and Progress and
Exhibit A-Amendments 3/4/14 as presented by Councilor [Dicky] Shanor.  (Proposed Amendment
#17) Include a current Land Use Map in PlayCheyenne: Reflections and Progress that distinctly
illustrates privately owned land that is situated outside of the City of Cheyenne boundary, but that
is inside L aramie County boundarie s.  Proposed Amendment to the “Resolved” sec tion of the
Resolution to include: WHEREAS, Wyo. Stat. Ann. § 9-8-301, § 15-1-503, and § 18-5-202; and 23
U.S. 134 (i)(1)(A) and (i)(B)(ii); and 23 CFR § 450.322 are legal references related to land use plans,
master plans, comprehensive plans, and transportation plans.  AND, Art. 1, § 37 of the Wy oming
Constitution declares that “The State of Wyoming is an inseparable part of the federal union, and the
Constitution of the United States is the supreme law of the land”.  As such, all aforementioned legal
references shall be in compliance w ith the supreme law.  F urther, Art. 1, § 7 of the Wy oming
Constitution states “Absolute arbitrary power over the lives, liberty and property of freemen exists
nowhere in a republic, not even in the largest majority.”  THEREFORE, the guide commonly referred
to as PlanChey enne: Reflections and P rogress shall be inse verable and in complianc e with the
Wyoming Constitution and the Constitution of the United States.  During recitation of the motion by
Ms. Williams, a point of order was raised by Mr. Brown questioning whether all of the proposed
amendments could be incorporated into the record by reference in lieu of them being orally read as
all members of the governing body had previously received a copy of the proposed amendments.
Pursuant to inquiry to Ms. Williams by Mayor Kaysen, Ms. Williams indicated her preference was
to read the amendments orally with Mayor Kaysen concurring.  Pursuant to inquiry to Ms. Williams
by Mayor Kaysen as to whether it was her intention to retain Proposed Amendment #16 in her motion
as i t had been acted upon by  previous motions, Ms. W illiams st ated it was he r intent that the
proposed a mendment (#16) be  included in her  motion.   Motion died due to lack of  a sec ond.
Comment followed that there is an amendment process contained in the current plan which allows
for further amendments to be brought forward by the City Council and County Commissioners and
that the normal City Council meeting and committee process would be followed, which provides the
opportunity for public review and participation.  In response to inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advised even
though this is a joint resolution, the City and County governing bodies have authority to adopt their
own plan and a ny future amendments would involve th e City Council’s usual public proc ess for
awareness and input.  Main motion as twice amended carried.  Before announcing the result of the
votes taken on the motion, Ms. Williams requested, pursuant to Robert’s Rules of Order, that she be
allowed to cha nge her vote from “ yes” to “ no” with May or Kaysen noting the change would be
allowed as the voting results had not yet been stated.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms.
Broyles, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Luna
and Ms. Williams. (#5573)
Under other business, John W alker, attorney, Hickey and Eva ns Law Firm, representing
International A ssociation o f F ire F ighters (I .A.F.F.) L ocal #279, re quested th e City  e ngage in
collective bargaining with his clients.  Mr. Walker stated his understanding that it is the position of
some that the request for collective bargaining was not timely given, noting his disagreement and
indicating that he would not be debating that issue at the meeting.  Mr. Walker represented, based
on research he had c onducted, that the governing body has the powe r and authority to waive a ny
delay in the service  of the re quest and engage in the collec tive bargaining process.  He fur ther
requested if members were unable to fully process the request [tonight] that it be reconsidered at a
later time.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Walker advised it is their position that the deadline was met and the
request was timely submitted.  He expressed his opinion that if the governing body felt the time frame
had not been met, it has the power and authority to waive any delays in the service of the collective
bargaining request.  Mayor Kaysen requested Mr. Walker pr ovide a c opy of his rese arch to Dan
White, City Attorney.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 9:55 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 March 20, 2014