MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-03-24 | CLIP_ID: 419 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 419

   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 March 24, 2014
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.
ABSENT: Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing  body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to support received
by Mr. Allen and Mr. Brown, Agenda Items #8 and #16(b) were removed from the Consent Agenda.
Upon request by Mr. B rown, and pursuant to support re ceived by Mr. Shanor a nd Mr. Allen,
Agenda Items #16(e) (f) and (g) were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Dr.
Rinne, and pursua nt to support rece ived by Mr. Shanor a nd Mr. Allen, Age nda Item #9 was
removed from the Consent Ag enda.  Mr . Allen  moved to appro ve remaining Consent Agenda
items, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 10, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to AP
Wyoming relative to services provided for the municipal pool renovation and expansion project,
Rick P arish, Parks & Rec reation Director, pr ovided an e xplanation of pre -construction fees
affiliated with project services by the vendor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Deerhaven Subdivision, 3  Filing, a replat of Deerhaven Subdivision, 2  Filing, Laramie County,rd nd
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Montalto Drive and E. Fox Farm
Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5574)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Capitol
Ridge, a re plat of all of L ots 1-24, Bloc k 14, I nterior Heights Addition, Chey enne, Wyoming
(located at the nor thwest corne r of the inter section of W. 4th Street and  Cribbon Avenue ).
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Mr.
Shanor moved to amend, seconded by Ms. Broyles, by adding the following condition: If detention
is to be on city property, then before signatures are affixed to the map the MOU shall be signed by
all parties.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#5575)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for The
Bluffs,  9  Filing, a replat of Lots 13 thru 16, Block 3 and Lots 8 thru 15, Block 8, The Bluffs, 7th th
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and a djacent to Point Bluff, between Foothills and
Plain View Roads).  Mr. Shanor  moved to adopt, seco nded by Mr. L una.  Comment followed
regarding a citizen concern that had been received relative to proposed townhouses instead of single
family homes to be developed on the site without notification to the neighborhood.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#5576) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd City  Cle rk to e xecute a  State Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) Grant Agreement in order to fund the 2014
Historic Cheyenne Film Contest Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5577 Res/#6148
Contract)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd City  Cle rk to e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) Grant Agreement in order to fund design
of a new Cheyenne Historic Preservation Board logo and design and production of new brochures
relating to Historic Preservation in the City of Cheyenne.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5578 Res/#6147 Contract)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#5579)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Providing for the review and approval of the South Cheyenne Water &
Sewer District’s Federal Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant Application before
the Wyoming State Loan and Investment Board for the Sanitary Sewer Parallel Main Extension
(Prosser) Project -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Declaring as surplus a City-owned property legally described as Lots 1 and
2, Block 15, Roberts Place, a n addition to the Cit y of Chey enne, Laramie County, Wyoming
(generally located at the southwest corner of O’Neil Avenue and West 5  Street), together withth
improvements thereon, and authorizing formal appraisal of the property and the City’s Purchasing
Director to proceed with the sale of said property pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-112 -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
Preliminary Plat for Pronghorn Crossing, a replat of Lots 15 & 16, Block 17, Crest Ridge,
4  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Storey Boulevard, west of Ridgeth
Road).  Mr. Shanor moved to acknowledge receipt with staff recommendations #1 and 2, seconded
by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Orion Planning Group
to provide an ordinance update for Historic Preservation Regulations (CLG Grant). Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $11,975.00). (#6140)
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and TischlerBise to provide
a Development Impact Fee Study (Impact Assistance Funds a nd MPO Funds).  Repor ting for
Finance Committ ee, Mr . Br own moved to appr ove in an a mount not to ex ceed $76,720.00,
seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend, seconded by Mr. Allen, Exhibit C, Scope
of Work, paragraph 6, Report, by adding a new sub-section (i) to read as follows: Recommended
strategies, policies and practices that could moderate the need for impact fees.  It was advised the
amendment clarifies expectations, and will help wit h providing an over all look at options and
mitigating the need for increased fees.  Upon inquiry, Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director,
advised the amendment will provide clarification and should be workable for the provider under
the scope of work.  H e noted if the  contractor should have a concern with the amendment, a ny
changes would come back to the g overning body as a c ontract modification.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Upon inquiry, Jim Flesher,
Planning Department, clarified there was no services delivery date in the agreement, noting it is
anticipated the  study coul d be complete d next fall or winter followed by  an ordina nce to be
presented to the governing body.  Comment followed that the study topic was not time sensitive in
nature; concern was expressed with an open- ended date to rec eive the study .  Mai n motion as
amended carried.  Voting “ yes” - all members of  the g overning body present.  May or Kaysen
suggested quarterly reports on the status of the study be given to Council members due to the open-
ended date. (#6141)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City prisoners at the Laramie County
Detention Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6142)
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between Laramie County, Wyoming, and the City of
Cheyenne. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6143)
Contingency and Development Agreement, City of Cheyenne and Searing Industries, to be
submitted to the Wyoming Business Council in connection with Business Ready Communities-
Business Committed Grant and Loan program for the Swan Ranch Rail Spur Project (Business &
Community Ready Grants).  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Brown
moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  It was advised the amendment is a title
change to Exhibit One which will now read “City of Cheyenne/Granite Peak Amended and Restated
Project Development and Administration Agreement”.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#6144)
Amended and Restated Project Development and Administration Agreement between the
City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne-Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS),
and Granite Peak Development Limited Partnership, to be submitted to the Wyoming Business
Council in connection with the Business Ready Communities-Business Committed Grant and Loan
program for the Swan Ranch Rail Spur Project (Business & Community Ready Grants).  Mr. Brown
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute dated March
21, 2014, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised the proposed
transaction with regard to the r ail spur in the Swan Ranc h Rail Park was initially  going to be a
$5,000,000 loan but was subsequently changed when it went before the Business Council and State
Land and Investment Board to become a grant/loan combination which necessitated the proposed
amendment. Mr. White reviewed the proposed changes in the substitute document.  Mo tion to
amend carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the governing body present.  Main motion as
amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#6145)
Track Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, CLH, LLC, a Wyoming Limited
Liability Company, and Gr anite Peak D evelopment Limited Partnership, a Wy oming Limited
Partnership, for rail facilities within Swan Ranch Rail Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming (Business &
Community Ready Grants).  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown
moved to amend by  substitute, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Da n White, City Attorney, reviewed
changes contained in the substitute with regard to wording in the Indemnity clause.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  A clerical error was
noted  in paragraph 7, which will be corrected.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present. (#6146)
[CA] Part-time Employment Agreement with Ronn J. Jeffrey to act as the Juvenile Court Judge
to provide juvenile offender diversion services through the City of Cheyenne Municipal Court --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 5907 betwee n the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering D epartment, and AVI  Professional Corpora tion for additional desig n work a nd
construction management services for the Snyder Reconstruction Design Project (2007 - 2010 1%
Sales Tax). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $90,084.00). (#5907)
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 6089 between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department,
and the State of Wyoming Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program for mobile
impaired command post (Highway Safety Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6089)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-15-14 for annual purchase of furnishing aggregate for the Street
and Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid
from Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, WY; $5.25/ton). 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-16-14 for annual purchase of  hot mix, tack oil and cold mix for
the Street and Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(accept bid from JTL Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River; Hot Mix-$50/ton, Tack Oil-$1.35/gal., Cold
Mix-$76.50/ton).
    
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-19-14 for furnishing 76 new desktop computers for the City of
Cheyenne, Information Technology Division, pursuant to the City’s replacement program (2011 -
2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from CDW Government
LLC, Vernon Hills, IL; amount not to exceed $49,260.16). 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-14-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, a nd Re iman Corporation &  Sub sidiary of  Che yenne, Wy oming, f or the  Wes t
Lincolnway Streetscape project (State & Local Grants, Miscellaneous Federal Grants) -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-11-14 for furnishing 100 plastic rearload 2-yard commercial refuse
containers for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Impact Assistance Fund) -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-13-14 for f urnishing two ne w 2013-2014 GO-4 par king patrol
vehicles for the City of Cheyenne, Parking Division (Impact Assistance Fund) -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 14, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2 101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a tra nsfer of loca tion for a
microbrewery permit application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Freedoms Edge Brewing Co.,
LLC d/b/a Freedoms Edge Brewing Co., 1509 Pioneer Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license
currently held by Freedom’s Edge Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Freedoms Edge Brewing Co., 301 W.
16  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming).th
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, April 14, 2014 at 6:00
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Fiscal Year 2014-
2015 Annual Ac tion Pl an, City of Chey enne Community Development Block G rant (CDBG)
entitlement.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 14, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a bar and grill liquor license
application filed with the City Clerk's Office, for WRCH-Cheyenne, Inc. d/b/a Wyoming’s Rib and
Chop House, 400 W. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of John M. Jolley and David A. Pulley,
to the International Fire Code Board of Appeals, to be confirmed April 14, 2014. 
Under other business, Da vid Evans, attorne y, Hickey and Eva ns law fir m, representing
International Association of Fire Fighters (I.A.F.F.) Local #279, requested a motion be made and
passed by the governing body at the current meeting to waive any missed deadline relative to the
Union’s request to enter into collective bargaining, noting the Union’s position is that the deadline
was met and the request was timely submitted.  Mr. Evans commented in support of his request and
presented concerns and potential issues if a new contract is not in place; advised a grievance had
been filed on this date; referenced a previous opinion that had been submitted at the last City
Council meeting regarding authority to waive the deadline, and responded to inquiries posed by City
Council members.  Comments and inquiries prese nted by Council members included: Whether
collective bargaining discussions could begin sooner to coincide with the annual budget preparation;
timing of past requests relative to s tate statute provisions and annual state legislative sessions;
quorum of the governing body required to conduct collective bargaining meetings, and the number
of times collective bargaining has resulted in arbitration.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:47 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 April 7, 2014