MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-04-14 | CLIP_ID: 420 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 420

   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 April 14, 2014
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  P resent were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna and Mr. Valdez.  ABSENT:
Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  Mayor Kaysen recognized members of the Mighty
Eagles 4-H Club present at the meeting and requested they lead the recitation of the pledge of
allegiance.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing  body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Allen moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 24, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Council inquiry was made concerning vouchers
payable to the following:  BT Real Estate (property value assessment), Gary’s Paint and Restoration
Performance (repair work on 2 vehicles), Clerk of District Court (payment for evidence received
affiliated with a settled court case), Elwood Staffing (temporary labor for West Side Story Civic
Center production), Bob Bradshaw (reimbursement, as the Division Head, to the Parking Division’s
petty cash fund for lot refunds), and Holland & Hart (outside legal services to represent the City in
a Wyoming State Bar complaint).  Providing information available in response to the inquiry were
Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director; Vicki Nemecek, Assistant Director, Public Works; Lois
Huff, City Treasurer, and Mayor Kaysen.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to r eceive comments and input for  a tra nsfer of
location for a microbrewery permit application filed with the City  Clerk's Office for Freedom’s
Edge Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Freedom’s Edge Brewing Co., 1509 Pioneer  Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (license currently held by Freedom’s Edge Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Freedom’s Edge
Brewing Co., 301 W. 16  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  There being no comments or input andth
purpose of  the hea ring having  been me t, May or Ka ysen closed the  hear ing and referred the
application to Finance Committee.
 Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for Fiscal Year 2014-2015 Annual Action Plan, City
of Chey enne Community  Deve lopment Block Gr ant (CDB G) e ntitlement.  Deanne  Widauf,
Housing and Community Development Office, provided a brief overview of the history and purpose
of the CDBG program, noting the City  has re ceived entitlement g rant funds since  1975.  She
advised t he proposed plan is consistent with the 5 y ear Comprehensive Consolidated Plan
completed in 2010, and stated the anticipated allocation funding amount is $406,045.00, which is
8% less than last year.  Ms Widauf explained the grant application process, public notifications and
opportunities for input, and role of the Advisory Council in reviewing and recommending projects
to be funde d.  She stated six projects are pr oposed under the ca tegories of public se rvices and
general services, and noted funding for program administration.  She reviewed the projects and
funding amounts as recommended by the Advisory Council.  There being no further comments and
input, and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a bar and grill
liquor l icense a pplication f iled w ith the  City Cle rk's O ffice, f or W RCH-Cheyenne, Inc. d /b/a
Wyoming’s R ib a nd C hop House, 400 W . Lincolnway, C heyenne, W yoming.  U pon i nquiry,
Preston Chiasson, applicant, clarified the application is for a new bar and grill liquor license, not
a transfer of an e xisting license.  There being no further comments or input and purpose  of the
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance
Committee.
ORDINANCE - Amending the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), to provide
for an Alternative Compliance for reduced residential minimum front setback -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Providing for the review and approval of the South Cheyenne Water &
Sewer District’s Federal Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account Grant Application before
the Wyoming State Loan and Investment Board for the Sanitary Sewer Parallel Main Extension
(Prosser) Project. (#5580)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Declaring as surplus a City-owned property legally described as Lots 1 and
2, Block 15, Roberts Place, a n addition to the Cit y of Chey enne, Laramie County, Wyoming
(generally located at the southwest corner of O’Neil Avenue and West 5  Street), together withth
improvements thereon, and authorizing formal appraisal of the property and the City’s Purchasing
Director to proceed with the sale of said property pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-112. (#5581)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A pproving the Cit y of C heyenne’s 2014-2015 Annual Ac tion Pl an
prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsors -- Ms. Broyles and Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or to enter into an “As I s” Collective L abor
Agreement with I.A.F.F. Union Local # 279 for Fiscal Year 2015 -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Rescinding Resolution No. 3451 and establishing a new schedule of fees,
charges and expenses as required by Section 1.3.7. of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Amendment to Resolution No. 5505 authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk
to enter into a Settlement Ag reement and Re-Development Agreement with 19  and Converse,th
LLC, a Colorado Limited Liability Company, to settle all remaining issues relating to the
acquisition of right-of-way for the re-construction of the Converse Avenue/Pershing Boulevard/19th
Street intersections, and approving, as a condition of settlement, the trade of certain real property
owned by the City to 19  and Converse, LLC, described as Lots 30 and 31, Block One, Eastridgeth
Addition, together consisting of approximately 17,361 square feet, and having an assessed value
of  $81,590.00, in exchange for certain real property owned by 19  and Converse, LLC, consistingth
of approximately 9,504 square feet of land, being a portion of Lots 1 and 2, Ruth Addition, having
an appraised value between $190,080.00 and $237,600.00, both properties being located at or near
the Converse Avenue/Pershing Boulevard/19th Street intersections, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for the Pointe, Eighth Filing, a replat of Lot 14, Block 8, The Pointe, Fifth
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Powderhouse Road, between Dorothy
Lane and Michael Evans Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Part-time Employment Agreement with Ronn J. Jeffrey to act as the Juvenile Court Judge
to provide juvenile offender diversion services through the City of Cheyenne Municipal Court.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $21,355.36). (#6150)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,
and Short Elliott Hendrickson, Inc., for engineering design and construction management services
for the 19th Street Rehabilitation Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, BOPU Funds) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Municipal Court, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for Municipal Court security services -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,
and Tetra Tech, Inc., for Digital Orthoimagery and Topograp hic Mapping (GIS Cooperative)--
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Business Rea dy Communi ty Gra nt and L oan Prog ram Gr ant Ag reement betwee n the
Wyoming Business Council and the City of Cheyenne for $2,000,000 to construct a portion of rail
infrastructure in the Swan Ranch Industrial Park -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for School R esource Offic ers f or summer school 2014 - - re ferred to F inance
Committee. 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the
City of Casper, Police Department, for law enforcement extraterritorial assistance -- referred to
Finance Committee.   
[CA] User Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Parks and Recr eation Department, and
Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, to host the 2014 - 2016 seasons at the City-owned
Ice and Events Center -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Media Sales Ag ency Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Parks and Recr eation
Department, and Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, for Static Visual Advertising at the
City-owned Ice and Events Center -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Rec reation
Department, an d Empire B uilders, L LC, for financ ial contributions to be used for  future
improvements to the David R. Romero South Chey enne Community Park -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5824 between the City of Cheyenne, Solid
Waste Division, and Tatooine Electronic Systems, Inc., for recycling of electronic waste received
at the Felix Pino Transfer Station Waste Facility and Happy Jack Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 5 to Cont ract No. 5496 betwee n the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and Ayres Associates, to add additional construction Administration for
the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project (Phase IV) (2003-2006, 2007-2010 1% Sales
Tax, Board of Public Utilit ies, Federal Highway Admin istration funds) --  referred to Fina nce
Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No.1 to Contract No. 6102 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Waterford Corporation, for the completion of the fencing at Pioneer
Park Baseball Field (Park Project Funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Amendment to Contract Modifi cation No.1 to Contract No. 6041 be tween the City of
Cheyenne, Par ks and Recr eation De partment, a nd AP Wy oming, L LC, f or an Owner and
Construction Manager At Risk (CMAR) Guaranteed Maximum Price Agreement (GMPA) for the
Municipal Pool and Expansion Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax, Menard property
sale proceeds) -- referred to Finance Committee.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown
advised due to timing involving construction of the projec t, the item was discussed under other
items for the agenda at Finance Committee and provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.
Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Todd Feezer, Assistant Director, Parks and
Recreation Department, explained the GMPA is provided f or within the initial contract a nd the
agreement will allow construction to proceed for the budgeted amount of $6,343,568.00.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#6041)
Consideration of Bid #M-14-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, a nd Re iman Co rporation & S ubsidiary of  Che yenne, Wy oming, f or the  Wes t
Lincolnway Streetscape project (State & Local Grants, Miscellaneous Federal Grants).  Mr. Brown
moved to reject the bid submitted by Reiman Corporation & Subsidiary of Cheyenne in the amount
of $730,270.01, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr. Allen ra ised a point of orde r inquiring whether
discussion from the public had been called for on the item with Mayor Kaysen confirming inquiry
for discussion from the public had been made.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-11-14 for furnishing 100 plastic rearload 2-yard commercial refuse
containers for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Impact Assistance Fund).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from Nedland Industries, Inc., Ridgeland, Wisconsin, in an
amount not to exceed $50,500.00).
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-13-14 for f urnishing two new 2013- 2014 GO-4 pa rking patrol
vehicles f or the City  of Chey enne, Par king D ivision (Impact Assistance  Fund).   Motion (per
Consent Ag enda) car ried (a ccept bid from Wil liams Equipment,  LLC, Hende rson, CO, in an
amount not to exceed $62,426.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-14-14 for furnishing three new 2014-2015 all wheel drive small
sports utility vehicles for the Engineering Department (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax, Solid
Waste Management Funds, Insurance Claims) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-18-14 for  a co ntract betwee n the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and S&S Builders, LLC for the FY 2014 Concrete for Street & Alley Project
(2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-19-14 for  a contr act bet ween the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and STC Construction Co., Inc. for the Yellowstone Road Wear Course
Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-20-14 for an enterprise Ethernet Wide Area Network connection
for the Information Technology Division to provide appropriate network bandwidth for the new
phone system and to replace existing data connections (Special Distribution fund) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
Re-Appointments of John M. Jolley and David A. Pulley, to the International Fire Code
Board of Appeals.  Ms. Broy les moved to approve , seconded by Mr. B rown.  Motion car ried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen
who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Under other business, the following individuals expressed concerns and dissatisfaction with
the upco ming change in Sanitation’s automated solid waste c ollection services for re sidential
containers which involves changing the pick-up location from alleys to street curbside collection
points in certain areas within the City: Major Dorr, Kevin Robinett, Mary Liz Langley, Jeannine
Melka, Jan Nelson-Schroll, Jane Robinett, Larry Melka, Larry and Peggy Rosentreter, Betty Sue
Allen, Pete Laybourn and Kevin Vance.  Topics presented included: Sanitation’s study and analysis
of pick-up routes; beautification; curbside collections posing a hardship for senior citizens and
handicapped individuals; collection efficiencies; fairness and objectivity in determining collection
points; property damage occurring due to garbage trucks negotiating alleys, possible solutions to
retain alley pick-ups; previous resolution on the topic that failed adoption in 2012; concerns with
container storage site availability in certain neighborhoods and timely retrieval of containers from
streets; image and property values; solid waste fee study and potential enterprise budget fund for
Sanitation and cost of Sanitation’s new GPS system.  Duri ng comments and pursuant to public
inquiry regarding the methodology in not presenting the operational change in the for m of a
resolution, Dan White, City Attorney, advised that due to potential attorney-client conflict he would
decline to publicly discuss the matter at this time.  Information on the purpose of collection point
changes and response to comments/inquiries posed by speakers and members of the governing body
were provided by Vicki Nemecek, Assistant Director of Public Works, and Dennis Pino, Director
of Sanitation.  Discussion of the topic by members of the governing body followed and included
inquiries affiliated with concerns that had been raised; postcards advising of the upcoming change
that had been sent by the City; route efficiencies; Sanitation drivers’ input on safety concerns and
problems with maneuvering Sanitation trucks in alleys; Sanitation staff collection assistance and
efforts; GPS programming; impact fee study; alley encroachments; driver training, and operational
issues.  During discussion a letter from Jim Rose, requesting reconsideration of discontinuing alley
collections, was read into the record by Mr. Allen.  Mayor Kaysen expressed appreciation for the
public’s comments and advised the topic would be reviewed.  Ms. Nelson-Schroll commented that
a valuable piece of information would be a one-page financial synopsis of Sanitation income and
expenses for the past year, and requested she be provided with the information. 
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned  at 8:28 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 April 24, 2014