MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-04-28 | CLIP_ID: 421 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 421

   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 April 28, 2014
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  P resent were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and
Mr. Valdez.  ABSENT: Ms. Williams.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing  body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 14, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Amending the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), to provide
for a n Alterna tive Compli ance for r educed residential minimum fron t setback.  B randon
Cammarata, Director of Planning and Development, provided information on setback distances for
single family homes and duplexes, from 25 ft. to 15 ft. when certain criteria is met and particularly
for infill developments in existing neighborhoods, pursuant to inquiry that had been raised at the
Public Services Committee meeting.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved
to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Cammarata clarified
garages will still need to meet setback criteria.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the
governing body present.
RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Lois Huff, City Treasurer, requested
consideration of a two week postponement to allow time to evaluate other potential funding sources
(relative to funding needed for firefighter wages as the result of arbitration last year) pursuant to
discussion held at the Finance Committee meeting.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Allen
advised there was no recommendation on the item from the Committee.  Mr. Allen moved to adopt,
seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Mr. Allen moved to postpone to May 12, 2014, seconded by Dr. Rinne.
Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Ap proving the  City  of Chey enne’s 2014-2015 Annual Ac tion Pl an
prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5582)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Au thorizing the  May or to enter  into an “As I s” Collective L abor
Agreement with I.A.F.F. Union Local #279 for Fiscal Year 2015.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5583)
RESOLUTION - Rescinding Resolution No. 3451 and establishing a new schedule of fees,
charges and expenses as required by Section 1.3.7. of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code.
Matt Ashby , Direc tor of Planning  Service s, provided a br ief ove rview of  the purpose of  the
resolution, noting the last fee increases were 21 years ago.  He discussed administrative actions and
processes involving fees; cost of services; fee structures and amounts studied involving other
communities; “hard” costs incurre d, and L aramie County’s ra te structure .  Dale Stee nbergen,
President, G reater Ch eyenne Ch amber o f Co mmerce, s poke in  o pposition to  th e r esolution,
commenting on assumptions that were being made pertaining to community development costs;
previous Cheyenne LEADS study; relationship of fees affecting local businesses and economic
development, a nd sug gested lowe r taxes , smaller g overnment should be encour aged.  B rad
Emmons, AVI  Eng ineering, posed questions reg arding simple and complex development
agreements and the diff erence be tween site pla ns; fi nancial security amount, and subdivision
standard waiver, and suggested increases be put in place over a 3-4 year period.  Mr. Allen moved
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Discussion included the following topics: Notes/clarifications
that were not included with the r esolution information; percentage of c ost currently bourne by
developers vs. administrative costs expended; deter mining costs to do business in Chey enne;
pending results of the development impact study; competitiveness, and proposed flat fees.  During
discussion and upon inquiry, Mr. Ashby provided information on the flat fees proposed; County fee
structure, which is based on a flat rate as well as an hourly staff time rate; “hard” costs involving
such things as advertising of legal notifications; mailings, re ports, etc., and recent development
construction valuations.  He stated the impac t study will address how to ha ndle growth issues
involving City services.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone to May 12, 2014, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Following comment o n r eceiving fu rther i nformation o n th e “ package” of  fe es a nd c osts t o
developers, motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Mayor Kaysen noted the item would be reviewed at the next Finance Committee meeting scheduled
for May 5th.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Amendment to Resolution No. 5505 authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk
to enter into a Settlement Ag reement and Re-Development Agreement with 19  and Converse,th
LLC, a Colorado L imited L iability Company , to settle all remain ing issues relating to the
acquisition of right-of-way for the re-construction of the Converse Avenue/Pershing Boulevard/19th
Street intersections, and approving, as a condition of settlement, the trade of certain real property
owned by the City to 19  and Converse, LLC, described as Lots 30 and 31, Block One, Eastridgeth
Addition, together consisting of approximately 17,361 square feet, and having an assessed value
of  $81,590.00, in exchange for certain real property owned by 19  and Converse, LLC, consistingth
of approximately 9,504 square feet of land, being a portion of Lots 1 and 2, Ruth Addition, having
an appraised value between $190,080.00 and $237,600.00, both properties being located at or near
the Converse Avenue/Pershing Boulevard/19th Street intersections, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5584)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Che yenne Police D epartment to apply  for Wy oming
Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program, Grant funding for the City’s Mobile D.U.I.
Command Post (sponsor - Mr. Brown) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Granting, with conditions, the petition of Lummis Livestock, LLC, for the
expansion of the boundaries of the South Cheyenne Water & Sewer District to provide water and
sewer services to users within Phase I of the Sweetgrass Development (sponsor - Mr. Shanor) –
referred to Public Services Committee.
Preliminary Plat for the Pointe, Eighth Filing, a replat of Lot 14, Block 8, The Pointe, Fifth
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Powderhouse Road, between Dorothy
Lane and Michael Evans Avenue).  Mr. Shanor moved to acknowledge the Planning Commission’s
recommendation to approve with staff conditions #1 and 2, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,
and Short Elliott Hendrickson, Inc., for engineering design and construction management services
for the 19th Street Rehabilitation Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, BOPU Funds).  Mr. Allen
moved to approve in an amount not to ex ceed $782,851.00, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#6151)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Municipal Court, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for Municipal Court security services.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $42,000). (#6152)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,
and Tetra Tech, Inc., for Digital Orthoimagery and Topog raphic Mappi ng (GIS Cooperative).
Motion ( per Consent Ag enda) car ried (total a mount not to ex ceed $171,741.00; Cit y’s share
$46,537.00). (#6153)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No. 1 for School Resource Officers for summer school 2014.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#6154)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the
City of Casper, Police Department, for law enforcement extraterritorial assistance.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6155)
[CA] User Agreement between the City of Chey enne, Parks and Recr eation Department, and
Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, to host the 2014 - 2016 seasons at the City-owned
Ice and Events Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6156)
[CA] Media S ales Agency Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Parks and Recr eation
Department, and Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, for Static Visual Advertising at the
City-owned Ice and Events Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6157)
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the City  of C heyenne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and  Empire B uilders, L LC, for financ ial contributions to be used for  future
improvements to the David R. Romero South Cheyenne Community Park.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6158)
Business Rea dy Communi ty Gra nt and L oan Prog ram Gr ant Ag reement betwee n the
Wyoming Business Council and the City of Cheyenne for $2,000,000 to construct a portion of rail
infrastructure in the Swan Ranch Industrial Park.  Scott Sutherland, Granite Peak Development,
advised he was present to provide any information on the item as well as the next four affiliated
agenda items.  Mr. Allen moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Mr. Allen moved to amend
by substitute, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  It was noted the proposed substitute contains corrections in
the attachments to the agreement.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.  Main m otion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present. (#6159)
 Mortgage between Swan Ranch Properties, LLC, as mortgagor, and the City of Cheyenne,
as mortgagee, for 80.74 acres of land located in the Swan Ranch Industrial Park, and described as
the East Half of Section 28, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6  PM, and the Northeastth
Quarter o f S ection 2 7, T ownship 1 3 N orth, R ange 6 7 W est o f the 6  PM, Laramie C ounty,th
Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. Allen reported that due to timing involving the
proposed agreement action for the Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program Grant
Agreement, the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the April 21, 2014 Finance
Committee meeting and provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.  Mr. Allen moved to
approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present. (#6159)
Railroad right of way easement between Swan Ranch, LLC, and Clear Creek Land Co.,
LLC, and the City  of Chey enne concerning the R ailway Corridor Projec t in the Swan Ranch
Industrial Park – referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. Allen reported that due to timing involving
the proposed agreement action for the Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program Grant
Agreement, the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the April 21, 2014 Finance
Committee meeting and provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.  Mr. Allen moved to
approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present. (#6159)
Granite Peak Development, LP, Assignment of Ownership of Rail, Ties and all related Rail
Equipment installed pursuant to Amended and Restated Project Development and Administration
Agreement, concerning the Railway Corridor Project in the Swan Ranch Industrial Park – referred
to Finance Committee.  Mr. Allen reported that due to timing involving the proposed agreement
action for the Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program Grant Agreement, the item was
reviewed under other items for the agenda at the April 21, 2014 Finance Committee meeting and
provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.  Mr. Allen moved to approve, seconded by Dr.
Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#6159)
Non-Negotiable Promissory Note for Granite Peak Development, Limited Partnership, to
pay the City of Cheyenne the sum of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00), concerning the Railway
Corridor Project in the Swan Ranch Industrial Park – referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. Allen
reported that due to timing involving  the proposed a greement action for  the Business Ready
Community Grant and Loan Program Grant Agreement, the item was reviewed under other items
for the agenda at the April 21, 2014 Finance Committee meeting and provisions of Title 2 of City
Code had been met.  Mr. Allen moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry, Scott
Sutherland, Gra nite Peak De velopment, provided a n update of  the n umber of c ompanies and
affiliated jobs that have been created in the Industrial Park, noting that currently they are literally
out of land to provide rail services to additional interested companies/customers.  Upon inquiry,
Dan White, City  Attorney, explained the 1% intere st rate, ba sed upon the ra te assessed by the
Wyoming Business Council, and portion (½ of 1%) that will come back as economic development
funds.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#6159)
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Parks and Rec reation
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 to provide transportation services for the
City’s Summer Recreation Camp Program – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County, City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne
Board of Public Utilities, Chey enne/Laramie County Board of Health and Chey enne Regional
Airport Board regarding the management of the Environmental Systems Research Institute (ESRI)
Enterprise L icense for the Cooperative Ge ographic I nformation Sy stems (GI S) prog ram, a nd
authorizing the City of Cheyenne as a software user participant in the Multi-Jurisdictional Licensing
Agreement – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5824 between the City of Cheyenne, Solid
Waste Division, and Tatooine Electronic Systems, Inc., for recycling of electronic waste received
at the Felix Pino Transfer Station W aste Facility and Happy Jack Landfill (Solid Waste Fund).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $160,000.00) (#5824)
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 5 to Cont ract No. 5496 betwee n the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and Ayres Associates, to add additional construction Administration for
the East Pershing Boulevard Reconstruction Project (Phase IV) (2003-2006, 2007-2010 1% Sales
Tax, Board of Public Utilit ies, Federal Highway Administration funds).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $53,610.00). (#5496)
[CA] Contract Modification No.1 to Contract No. 6102 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Waterford Corporation, for the completion of the fencing at Pioneer
Park Baseball Field (Park Project Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to
exceed $7,000.00). (#6102)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5932 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and Solid Waste Professionals of Wyoming, for Happy Jack Landfill Expansion
and closure of existing cells (Solid Waste Management fund) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-14-14 for furnishing three new 2014-2015 all wheel drive small
sports utility vehicles for the Engineering Department (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax, Solid Waste
Management Funds, Insurance Claims).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from
Castle Rock Dodge, Afton, Wyoming; amount not to exceed $67,755.00).
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-18-14 f or a contrac t betwee n the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and S&S Builders, LLC for the FY 2014 Concrete for Street & Alley Project
(2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid; amount not to
exceed $974,805.30). (#6160)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-19- 14 for a  contra ct betwe en the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and STC Construction Co., Inc. for the Yellowstone Road Wear Course
Project (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid; amount
not to exceed $569,137.40). (#6161)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-20-14 for an enterprise Ethernet Wide Area Network connection
for the Information Technology Division to provide appropriate network bandwidth for the new
phone system and to replace existing data connections (Special Distribution fund).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from CenturyLink, Casper, Wyoming; amount not to exceed
$369,103.90). (#6162)
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-21-14 for f urnishing a mmunition for the Cheyenne Police
Department – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-15-14 for furnishing three 2014-2015 solid waste transfer trailers
for City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Equipment Lease) – referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-16-14 for furnishing three new 2014-2015 cab and chassis units
with automated refuse collection packer body with dual arm side loaders for the City of Cheyenne,
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Equipment Lease) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-17-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks &
Recreation Department, and Reiman Corporation and Subsidiary of Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the
Converse Softball Complex Project (State & Local Grants, Parks Facilities) – referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-21-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, a nd Azt ec Con struction Co mpany, I nc., of  Chey enne, Wy oming, f or the  No rris
Detention Pond Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-23-14 for furnishing 15 new computers and operating systems for
the City  of Chey enne Police D epartment (2011-2014 1% Sale s Tax) – refe rred to Fi nance
Committee.
[CA] Transfer of location for a microbrewery permit application for Freedom’s Edge Brewing
Co., LLC d/b/a Freedom’s Edge Brewing Co., 1509 Pioneer Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license
currently held by Freedom’s Edge Brewing Co., LLC d/b/a Freedom’s Edge Brewing Co., 301 W.
16  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.th
[CA] Bar and g rill liquor license applica tion filed with the City  Clerk’s  Office for WRCH-
Cheyenne, Inc. d/b/a Wyoming’s Rib and Chop House, 400 W. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne
at th e June  14 , 2 014 Wyoming As sociation o f M unicipalities Business Meeting – r eferred to
Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Coltan G. Harrington to t he Laramie
County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board, to be confirmed May 12, 2014.  The
following announcement was a lso made due to the item inadver tently being omitted from the
agenda: Announcement of Appointment of Ronn J. Jeffrey as Judge of the Juvenile Court, to be
confirmed May 12, 2014.
Under other business, re quest was made  regarding Parks  and Recreation staff ser vices
involving areas cleaned at Martin Luther King Park affiliated with recent use of the Park by
members of the public with Mayor Kaysen advising a review by staff would be conducted.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned  at 6:57 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 May 9, 2014