MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-05-12 | CLIP_ID: 423 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 423

   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 May 12, 2014
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  P resent were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna and Dr. Rinne.  ABSENT:
Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing  body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Ms. Broyles and Mr. Allen, Agenda Item #13 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Allen
moved to approve  remaining Consent Ag enda items, sec onded by Mr. C ook.  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 28, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown  moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Amending the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), to provide
for an Alternative Compliance for reduced residential minimum front setback.  B oyd Wiggam,
Wyoming Liberty Group, expressed concerns with the proposed ordinance relative to wording in
Section 4; questioned whethe r new in-fill developments would be a llowed to match wha t was
similar in the area or held to standards for the majority of houses previously built in a neighborhood,
and suggested an amendment to Section 4 for clarification be considered.  Donald James Howard
Perrott Macneil commented in opposition to development in general.  Reporting for Public Services
Committee, Mr. Allen move d to approve on third and fina l rea ding, se conded by Mr. Cook.
Comment followed on the proposed or dinance, as written, providing flexibility and meeting the
desired purpose of the amendment to the UDC.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present. (#4024)
ORDINANCE - Approving and establishing revised water and sewer rates, tap and system
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties and septic and commercial
waste dump rates, as recommende d by  the B oard of  Public Utili ties -- re ferred to F inance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne U nified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MUB
Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for L ot 1, Block 1, Ta k Subdivis ion and L ot 1, Block 1, D an
Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to  W. Lincolnway, between
Westland Road and I-25) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Shanor).  
ORDINANCE - Amending Sections 2.76.020(A) and (B), Members-Terms-Vacancies, of
Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the
code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Dr.
Rinne).
ORDINANCE - Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation all for the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 2014 and ending June 30, 2015 -- referred to Committee of the Whole (sponsor -
Mr. Brown).
ORDINANCE - Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste fee schedule established by
Ordinance No. 4013 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 a nd 16-4-113 (postponed from 04/28/14). 
Reporting for F inance Committee, Mr. B rown moved to a dopt, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mr.
Brown moved to amend by substitute dated May 2, 2014, seconded by Ms. Broyles. It was advised
the amendment changes the funding source for some line items from impact assistance funds to
unanticipated additional general revenue, and tha t the total dollar amount remained the same . 
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion
as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5585)
RESOLUTION - Rescinding Resolution No. 3451 and establishing a new schedule of fees,
charges and expenses as required by Section 1.3.7. of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code.
Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, referenced a staff memo dated May 5, 2014 that had been
submitted to governing body members and provided an overview of the information contained in
the memo affiliated with clarifications; proposed preliminary and final plat costs; utilizing a flat rate
vs. a flat rate plus a per lot cost for platting activities, and implementing fee increases on a “phased
in” approach.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown stated there was no recommendation
on the item from Committee.  Mr. B rown moved to a dopt, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Discussion
topics included: Previously approved action to acquire a Development Impact Fee Study prepared
by a consultant and anticipated time frame for receipt of the information; Chamber of Commerce’s
proposal to conduct and pay for a study relative to the proposed resolution topics and anticipated
time frame for receipt; participation by City staff during the Chamber’s process of compiling its
study; concern that the Chamber’s estimated 90 day time frame in which to submit its study results
may not be sufficient to cover the comprehensive areas to be involved; various subjects that should
be objec tively considere d i n the Chamber’s study  (such a s acquisition of wate r rig hts and
infrastructure) involving costs of doing business within the Cit y; justifiable fee increases and/or
decreases, and governing body’s authority pertaining to recommendations that may be presented
based upon the  Chamber’ s study.  During  discussion and upo n inquiry, Mr. Ashby  provided
information concerning the Development Impact Fee Study being conducted by the consultant, and
Dan White, City Attorney, advised as a general proposition the governing body is not bound by
recommendations of any study that is presented to them.  Dale Steenbergen, Greater Cheyenne
Chamber of Commerce, provided information in response to inquiries and advised the Chamber’s
study approach would be a comprehensive review of fees affiliated with the cost to develop within
the community.  He stated a comprehensive study may take longer than 90 days, that a joint ad hoc
task force could serve as the study work group, and that updates to the governing body during the
process would be through reports submitted twice a month.  He confirmed designated City staff
input would be involved during the study process as well as accepting input from the community,
and that the goal was that the business community would not be left out of the disc ussions.  Mr.
Steenbergen commented on e conomic deve lopment, costs of deve lopment, and pay ing f or
infrastructure on a  long- term basis.  May or Ka ysen provided inf ormation on m eetings of the
governing body during the month of August pursuant to the Chamber’s estimated 90 day time frame
in which to submit t he study or a summary status report, and possibility of a City Council work
session.  Mr. Steenbergen commented that perhaps a meeting with City Council members should
be held soon to understand the structure and topics to be included in the study .  Motion to adopt
failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Chey enne Police Department to apply  for Wy oming
Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program, Grant funding for the City’s Mobile D.U.I.
Command Post.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5586)
RESOLUTION - Granting, with conditions, the petition of Lummis Livestock, LLC, for the
expansion of the boundaries of the South Cheyenne Water & Sewer District to provide water and
sewer services to users within Phase I of the Sweetgrass Development.  Mr. Allen moved to adopt,
seconded by Mr. Brown.  Mr. A llen moved to withdraw the  Resolution f rom the agenda at the
request of staff and the petitioner, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion to withdraw the item carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Approving the budget of the Downtown Development Authority/Main
Street for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2014 and ending June 30, 2015 -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for
Pronghorn Crossing, a replat of L ots 15 & 16, B lock 17, Crest Ridge , 4th Filing, Che yenne,
Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Storey Boulevard, west of Ridge Road) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Platte Valley Subdivision, a portion of the W½ of Section 28, T.14N., R.65W., 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to I-80 Service Road, west of Archer Parkway) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Shanor). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign County Final Plat for
Gould Subdivision, 2  Filing, a replat of Lot 10, Block 1, Gould Subdivision, Laramie County,nd
Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Harmon Avenue and Victoria
Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Shanor).  
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Grant, for the purpose of assisting in
providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit Program, as
authorized by 49 U.S.C. § 5311 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A Joint Resolution Certifying that the Governing Bodies of the City of
Cheyenne, the Town of Albin, the Tow n of B urns, the Town of  Pine Bluffs, and the Boa rd of
County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, support proposed modifications to Chapter
32 of the Rules and Reg ulations of the S tate Loan and I nvestment Boa rd for  the Capital
Improvement Projects-Countywide Consensus Program -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for the Electronic
Citation Implementation Grant through the Wyoming Supreme Court (1% Specific Purpose Sales
& Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding with the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, to submit
a joint application for a grant award under the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant
Program -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown). 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for US 30 Business Plaza, a replat of Lots 1 and 5-8, Block 2, all of Block
3, all of Block 4, Countryside Addition and a portion of the NE¼ of Section 26, T.14N., R.66W.,
6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as US 30 Business Plaza (located at the southwestth
corner of the inter section of US Hig hway 30 and Whitney  Road) --  referred to Pu blic Services
Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the C ity of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 to provide transportation services for the
City’s Summer Recreation Camp Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6163)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County, City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne
Board of Public Utilities, Cheyenne/Laramie County Board of Health and Cheyenne Regional
Airport Board regarding the management of the Environmental Systems Research Institute (ESRI)
Enterprise L icense for the Coope rative G eographic I nformation Sy stems (GI S) prog ram, a nd
authorizing the City of Cheyenne as a software user participant in the Multi-Jurisdictional Licensing
Agreement.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6164)
[CA] Contract between the Wyoming Department of Family Services and the City of Cheyenne,
Office of Youth Alternatives, regarding the provision of Diversion Services -- referred to Finance
Committee.  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Goat Green, LLC, for vegetation management
along Dry Creek (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne on b ehalf of the
Metropolitan Planning O rganization and Cambridg e Sy stematics, I nc., for  the Chey enne
Transportation Sa fety Ma nagement P lan u pdate (N ational H ighway Tr ansportation Sa fety
Administration, Highway Safety Grant through Wyoming Department of Transportation) -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of Wyoming for dental coverage
for full time city employees -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Business Ready Community-Business Committed Loan and Security Agreement between
the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Business Council to provide  $3,000,000 in loan funds to
assist in the construction of a rail spur, switching, and related rail facilities to serve the Swan Ranch
Rail Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and including financing statements and collateral assignments
necessary to close the loan transaction -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Promissory Note under  which the City  of Chey enne sha ll be obl igated to pay to the
Wyoming Business Council the principal sum of $3,000,000, with interest as specified in said note,
from spec ial funds and co llateral assets pledg ed to the City  of Chey enne by  Gra nite Peak
Development, LLC, and its principals and related business entities, pursuant to the May 2, 2014
Amended a nd Restated Projec t Development a nd Administration Agr eement relating  to the
construction of a rail spur, switching, and related rail facilities to serve the Swan Ranch Rail Park,
Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5932 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and Solid Waste Professionals of Wyoming, for Happy Jack Landfill Expansion
and closure of existi ng cells (Solid Wa ste Management fund).  Motion (pe r Consent Ag enda)
carried (amount not to exceed $149,483.00). (#5932)
[CA] Contract Modi fication No. 1  to  Co ntract N o. 5 994 b etween th e Ci ty o f Cheyenne,
Engineering Department, and Simon Contractors for elevation changes to the box culvert along 23rd
Street for the Snyder Street Reconstruction Project (2003-2006, 2007-2010, 2011- 2014 1% Sales
Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-21-14 for f urnishing a mmunition for the Chey enne Police
Department.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from Accuracy, Inc. d/b/a Ultramax
Ammunition, Rapid City, South Dakota, amount not to exceed $40,397.00, and Skaggs Uniform
and Equipment, Salt Lake City, Utah, amount not to exceed $618.75; for a total bid amount of
$41,015.75).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-15-14 for furnishing three 2014-2015 solid waste transfer trailers
for City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Equipment Lease).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (accept bid from Ameri-Tech Equipment Company, Casper, Wyoming; amount
not to exceed $218,288.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-16-14 for furnishing three new 2014-2015 cab and chassis units
with automated refuse collection packer body with dual arm side loaders for the City of Cheyenne,
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Equipment Lease).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept
bid from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, Wyoming; amount not to exceed $887,413.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-17-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks &
Recreation Department, and Reiman Corporation and Subsidiary of Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the
Converse Softball Complex Project (State & Local Grants, Parks Facilities).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $1,626,575.95). (#6165)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-21-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, a nd Azt ec Con struction Co mpany, I nc., of  Che yenne, Wyoming, f or the  No rris
Detention Pond Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $449,337.80). (#6166)
Consideration of Bid #R-23-14 for furnishing 15 new computers and operating systems for
the City of Cheyenne Police Department (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Mr. Brown moved to reject
all bids, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-17-14 for furnishing two new 2014-2015 cab and chassis units with
rear load sanitation refuse collection bodies, 25 cubic yard with tippers for the City of Cheyenne,
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Equipment Lease) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-18-14 for furnishing one new 2014-2015 roll-off truck for the City
of Cheyenne Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Equipment Lease) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-23-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks &
Recreation Department, and Rec co, Inc., d/b/a F ive-R Company, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the
renovation and expansion of the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Conservatory Project (1% Specific
Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-22-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corpor ation and Subsidiary  o f Cheyenne, Wyoming, f or the L ogan
Avenue Reconstruction Project (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of Coltan G. Harrington to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services
Joint Powers Boa rd.  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes”  – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen
who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Appointment of Ronn J. Jef frey as Judge of the Juvenile Court.  Ms. Broyles moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the g overning
body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne
at the Jun e 14, 2014 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Business Mee ting.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (Mayor Richard L. Kaysen, Official Voting Delegate; City Clerk Carol
Intlekofer, Alternate Delegate).
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Barry Sims to the Visit Cheyenne Board
to be confirmed May 27, 2014. 
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Amiee Reese and Scott French to the
Visit Cheyenne Board, and Larry Atwell to the Cheyenne/Laramie County Economic Development
Joint Powers Board, to be confirmed May 27, 2014.
Announcement was made that due to the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 26, 2014,
the regularly scheduled meeting of the Governing Body will instead be held on Tuesday, May 27,
2014 beginning at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.
            Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 27, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public com ments
regarding the intent of the City of Cheyenne to submit an application to the Wyoming Business
Council’s Business Ready Community, Community Readiness Grant Program,  for the Christensen
Railroad Overpass and Corridor Project.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned  at 6:48 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 May 22, 2014