MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-05-27 | CLIP_ID: 426 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 426

   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 May 27, 2014
 
Due to the Memorial Day holiday, the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne instead met
in regular session on this date beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR
- Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr.
Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez.  ABSENT: Ms. Broyles  and Ms. Williams.  Also present:  Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of
allegiance, led by members of the Mayor’s Youth Council, was recited.
Expression of Appreciation to Mayor’s Youth Council and State of the Youth Report.
Juliette Givhan, Chair of the Mayor’s Youth Council, provided a brief presentation of the group’s
activities and learning experiences during the past year.  She noted the members’ involvement with
local service groups and community issues affecting youth; leadership and educational opportunities
provided through discussions with local government officials and staff, and tours of facilities and
operations.  Jan Spires, Mayor’s Youth Council Coordinator, commended members of the 2013-
2014 Youth Council on their commitment and involvement.  With assistance from Katrina Peterson,
who also provided administrative support for this year’s Youth Council, Mayor Kaysen presented
Certificates of Appreciation to the following Youth  Council members:  Jul iette Givhan (Chair),
Alex Cole (Vice-Chair), Caroline Alston, Elizabeth Babbitt, Tyler Bedwell, Alex Farkas, Alexis
Ferrari, Rachel Moseley, Emily Piel, Kesslee Stewart, Jason Weber and Darnell Wheeler Jr.  Mayor
Kaysen expressed appreciation to members for their time, commitment and dedication, and also to
members’ families for their support.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing  body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor  moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on May  12, 20 14.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council
Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive public comments regarding the intent of
the City of Cheyenne to submit an application to the Wyoming Business Council’s Business Ready
Community, Community Readiness Grant Program, for the Christensen Railroad O verpass and
Corridor Project.  Tom Mason, Director, Metropolitan Planning Organization, reviewed the intent
of the grant program and provided information on the project.  He advised the grant amount to be
requested is $3,000,000, which would involve a local match of $1,500,000; noted an application
for a competitive federal TIGER grant has also been submitted; stated the total estimated cost of
the project is $13.4 million dollars, and provided information on other potential funding sources,
including leveraging of grant funds if awarded.  J. Fred Volk spoke in support of the application
request and transportation connectivity benefit to the neighborhoods in the area.  Upon inquiry, Mr.
Mason stated public safety benefits could be realized due to the existing City Fire Training Center
in the vicinity and it’s capability of being utilized as a fire station in the future.  The re being no
further input and comments and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen
closed the hearing.  Mayor Kaysen noted Agenda Item #25 (Resolution) was related to the public
hearing topic and would be reviewed at the Finance Committee meeting on June 2, 2014.
ORDINANCE - Approving and establishing revised water and sewer rates, tap and system
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties and septic and commercial
waste dump ra tes, as recommended by the B oard of  Public Utili ties.  Reporting  for F inance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to a pprove on second reading, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Offic ial Z oning Ma p, of the Chey enne U nified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MUB
Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for Lot 1, Block 1, Tak Subdivision and Lot 1, Block 1, Dan
Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to W . Lincolnway, between
Westland Road and I -25).  B oyd W iggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, spoke in support of  the
proposed ordinance to allow private landowners and developers to meet community needs, noting
his belief the action meets the general goals of PlanCheyenne and would provide for affordable
housing (apartments).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Allen stated there was no
recommendation on the item from Committee.  M r. Allen advised it had been brought to his
attention that following the Committee meeting, the agent for the applicant requested the item be
withdrawn from the ag enda.  F ollowing query to members of the  governing body and with no
objection being raised, Mayor Kaysen announced the item was being withdrawn from the agenda.
ORDINANCE - Amending Sections 2.76.020(A) and (B), Members-Terms-Vacancies, of
Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the
code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation all for the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 2014 and ending  June 30, 2015.  Reporting  for Committee of the Whole, Dr.
Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present.  A summary of the proposed budget is as follows:
General Fund, $47,229,809; Weed and Pest, $510,000; Youth Alternatives Gr ants, $772,190;
Development Impact Fees, $151,000; Recreation Programs, $1,049,027; Community Development
Block Grant, $408,118; 1% Sales Tax Fund, $10,160,180; Law Enforcement Grants, $164,880;
Transportation Planning, $828.209; FTA Transit Grant, $2,554,151; Juvenile Justice, $235,536;
Special Friends, $145,667; Special Purpose Option Tax, $172,484; Youth Activities, $66,410; Golf
Facilities, $221,000; Fleet Maintenance, $5,195,966; Solid Waste Management Fund, $14,729,637;
Civic Center, $973,300; Ice and Events Center, $542,718; Ceme tery Perpetual Fund, $20,000 -
Total City proposed budget - $86,130,282.  Water Department, $35,830,775; Sewer Department,
$24,239,525 - Total Board of Public Utilities proposed budget - $60,070,300, for a total proposed
budget appropriation of $146,200,582.
 ORDINANCE - Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste fee schedule established by
Ordinance No. 4013.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Upon inquiry, Jim Elias, Public Works Director, verified a draft of the rate study is in the process
of being reviewed by staff and that a work session with the governing body will be scheduled to
discuss the rep ort and recommendations from the c onsultant.  Discussion followed on budg et
structure c hanges in volving so lid wa ste fu nds f or F Y2015; implementation a nd tim e fr ame
regarding the rate study; rates being tied to the c ost of operations and not nece ssarily a Cost of
Living Adjustment (COL A) or c onsumer price index; incremental incr eases; planning ( cost of
development) study which is in progress vs. regular daily sanitation business costs, and timing of
the fee schedule increase per the proposed ordinance vs. approval of the final rate study.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting
“no” -- Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Mr. Valdez.
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code
(UDC), to allow Service Users, Animal Care - Hospital/Clinic in the CBD Central Business District
after conditional discretionary review -- r eferred to Publi c Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr .
Shanor).
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 3980 de fining the terms and c onditions of
employment for non- uniformed e mployees of  the City  of Chey enne - - re ferred to F inance
Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen).
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 3981 de fining the terms and c onditions of
employment for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen). 
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Approving the budget of the Downtown Development Authority/Main
Street for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2014 and ending June 30, 2015.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5587)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for
Pronghorn Crossing, a re plat of L ots 15 & 16, B lock 17, Crest Ridge, 4th F iling, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Storey Boulevard, west of Ridge Road).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5588)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Platte Valley Subdivision, a portion of the W½ of Section 28, T.14N., R.65W., 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to I-80 Service Road, west of Archer Parkway).
 Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5589)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Gould Subdivision, 2  Filing, a replat of Lot 10, Block 1, Gould Subdivision, Laramie County,nd
Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Harmon Avenue and Victoria
Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5590)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Grant, for the purpose of assisting in
providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit Program, as
authorized by 49 U.S.C. § 5311.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5591)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A Joint Resolution Certifying that the Governing Bodies of the City of
Cheyenne, the Town of Albin, th e Town of Burns, the Tow n of Pine Bluf fs, and the B oard of
County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, support proposed modifications to Chapter
32 of the Rules and Reg ulations of the State L oan and I nvestment Boa rd for  the Capital
Improvement Projects-Countywide Consensus Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5592)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for the Electronic
Citation Implementation Grant through the Wyoming Supreme Court (1% Specific Purpose Sales
& Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5593)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding with the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, to submit
a joint application for a grant award under the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant
Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5594)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the  submission of a Business Ready Community, Community
Readiness Grant Application, to the Wyoming Business Council on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for the Christensen Railroad Overpass and Corridor Project -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Ms. Broyles).  
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the Application of the City of Cheyenne for Transportation
Alternatives Program (TAP) Funding for the Construction of the Saddle Ridge Greenway Connector
-- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles and Mr. Cook).
Preliminary Plat for US 30 Business Plaza, a replat of Lots 1 and 5-8, Block 2, all of Block
3, all of Block 4, Countryside Addition and a portion of the NE¼ of Section 26, T.14N., R.66W.,
6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as US 30 Business Plaza (located at the southwestth
corner of the intersection of US Highway 30 and Whitney Road).  Mr. Allen moved to acknowledge
receipt of the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve with staff condition #1, seconded
by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Contract between the Wyoming Department of Family Services and the City of Cheyenne,
Office of Youth Alternatives, regarding the provision of Diversion Services.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (revenue to the City - $157,800.00). (#6171)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Goat Green, LLC, for vegetation management
along Dry Creek (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $50,000.00). (#6172)
Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City of Chey enne on be half of the
Metropolitan Planning O rganization and Cam bridge Sy stematics, I nc., for  the Chey enne
Transportation Sa fety Ma nagement P lan u pdate (N ational H ighway Tr ansportation Sa fety
Administration, Highway Safety Grant through Wyoming Department of T ransportation).  Mr.
Brown reported there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve, seconded  by Mr. Allen.  Sreyoshi Chakraborty, MPO, advised the review and
update to the Plan involves compilation of transportation accident and crash data to identify areas
of concern involving fatalities and injuries and to provide long and short term strategies affiliated
with safety issues.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Chakraborty advised the information will be shared with
other agencies, such as the Safety Advisory Committee, Police Department, Wyoming Department
of Transportation and schools, and clarified federal funding has been received for the project.  Upon
further inquiry, she explained corridor design plans conducted through the MPO looks at different
elements, such as engineering, to address transportation safety improvements whereas the emphasis
of the transportation plan is to address problematic areas and behavioral issues, such as distracted
driving.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#6173)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of Wyoming for dental coverage
for full time city employees.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6174)
Business Ready Community-Business Committed Loan and Security Agreement between
the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Business Council to provide  $3,000,000 in loan funds to
assist in the construction of a rail spur, switching, and related rail facilities to serve the Swan Ranch
Rail Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and including financing statements and collateral assignments
necessary to close the loan transaction.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr.
Brown moved to amend by substitute dated 5/16/14, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Dan
White, City Attorney, provided information on changes contained within the substitute involving
the inclusion of signatures lines for the Wyoming Business Council, minor editorial changes in
Schedule 2, and a Consent to Lien.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.  Main motion as amended c arried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present. (#6175)
Promissory Note under which the City of Chey enne sha ll be obliga ted to pay  to the
Wyoming Business Council the principal sum of $3,000,000, with interest as specified in said note,
from spec ial funds and collate ral a ssets pledg ed to the City  of Chey enne by  Gra nite Peak
Development, LLC, and its principals and related business entities, pursuant to the May 2, 2014
Amended a nd Restated Projec t Development a nd Administration Agr eement relating  to the
construction of a rail spur, switching, and related rail facilities to serve the Swan Ranch Rail Park,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Brown  moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved
to amend by substitute dated 5/16/14, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  U pon inquiry, Dan White, City
Attorney, advised the substitute changes wording in Section 1.2 affiliated with timing of annual
payments relative to completion of the rail spur.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#6176)
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing b etween the City  of Chey enne, T ransit Division, and
Laramie Cou nty, Wy oming, to  pr ovide pu blic tr ansportation s ervices to  L aramie Cou nty
Community College, City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to
the City -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Stride Learning Center to provide cooperative
transit services (revenue to City) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and  the
City of Cody, Wyoming, Police Department, for law Enforcement Extraterritorial Assistance --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Department of Air Force License to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to use property located
on F.E. W arren Air Force B ase, Wy oming, f or a pa rking lot for patrons a ttending the  2014
Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee. 
     
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for United
States Department of the Air Force owned land located at  F.E. Warren Air Force Base to be used
and operated as a parking lot for public transportation services during the 2014 Cheyenne Frontier
Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.
     
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., and Laramie County School District No. 1 for buses owned by the Laramie County School
District No. 1 to be used and operated for public transportation services during the 2014 Cheyenne
Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.
  
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses
owned b y the  L aramie Cou nty Sc hool D istrict N o. 1 to  be  us ed an d operated f or pu blic
transportation services during the 2014 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities during
the 2014 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Recycling Services Agreement with WM Recycle America, L.L.C., for baled residential
single stream recyclables and baled old corrugated containers -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for employee Wellness
Coaching S ervices for the term of J uly 1, 2014 throug h J une 30, 2015 --  referred to Fina nce
Committee.
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Advanced Communications Technology
to permit  limited use of the public right-of-way for the installation of fiber optics, and setting a fee
(revenue to City) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Deep Green Energy, LLC, for replacement of
light fixtures in the George Cox and Jack R. Spiker parking facilities (Impact Assistance funds) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Contract No. 5994 betwee n the City  of Cheyenne,
Engineering Department, and Simon Contractors for elevation changes to the box culvert along 23rd
Street for the Snyder Street Reconstruction Project (2003-2006, 2007-2010, 2011- 2014 1% Sales
Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $45,000.00) (#5994)
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 5792 Memorandum of Understanding between the City
of Cheyenne and the 37  Helicopter Squadron of the United States Air Force for use of the Belvoirth
Ranch for helicopter training -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6130 between the City of Cheyenne and the
Wyoming Department of Transportation for Epoxy Striping (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Addendum t o M aster G roup Cont ract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne a nd WI Nhealth
Partners for City employee health coverage for the term of July 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015 --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Addendum t o M aster G roup Con tract be tween the City  of  Che yenne a nd WI Nhealth
Partners for City employee health coverage pertaining to the Transitional Reinsurance Program
Assessment Fee -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-17-14 for furnishing two new 2014-2015 cab and chassis units with
rear load sanitation refuse collection bodies, 25 cubic yard with tippers for the City of Cheyenne,
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Equipment Lease).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept
bid from Peterbilt of Wy oming, Chey enne, inc luding 2 trade -ins; amount not to ex ceed
$312,258.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-18-14 for furnishing one new 2014-2015 roll-off truck for the City
of Cheyenne Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Equipment Lease).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (accept bid from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne; amount not to exceed $135,113.00).
Consideration of Bid  #M-23-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks &
Recreation Department, and Recco, Inc., d/b/a F ive-R Company, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the
renovation and expansion of the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Conservatory Project (1% Specific
Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Mr. Brown moved to reject all bids, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-22-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corporat ion and Subsidiary  of Chey enne, Wyoming, f or the L ogan
Avenue Reconstruction Project (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $7,231,157.20). (#6177)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-20-14 for a contract be tween t he C ity o f C heyenne, 1%
Construction Division, and JTL Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Fiscal
Year 2014 City Overlay Project (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of Barry Sims to the Visit Cheyenne Board.  Mr. Brown moved to approve,
seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Re-Appointments of Amiee Reese and Scott French to the Visit Cheyenne Board, and Larry
Atwell to the Cheyenne/Laramie County Economic Development Joint Powers Board.  Dr. Rinne
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body  prese nt with the exception of May or Ka ysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointments).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 9, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance
of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated in a
portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 26, Township 14 North, Range
66 West of the 6th P.M., L aramie County, Wyoming, to be known as the Del-Van Storage Park
Annexation (located at 5311 Dell Range Boulevard at the southwest corner of the intersection of
Gysel Place and Dell Range Boulevard).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 9, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for proposed budgets for the City
of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2015. 
[CA] Request to approve an additional dispensing room for City of Cheyenne Limited Retail
Liquor Licensee AMVETS Pos t 10, located a t 3839 East L incolnway, Cheyenne Wyoming --
referred to Finance Committee.
Under other business:
Joe Dougherty, Director, City of Cheyenne Transit Program, encouraged the governing body
to find a wa y to start the process to implement the Employee Investment Study, commenting on
current salary levels and related market competitiveness that affect work force staffing levels.  It
was noted the City is waiting for a court decision regarding a law suit filed by the local newspaper
affiliated with the EIS before moving forward with results of the study.
Mr. Allen commented on the difficulty sanitation workers are experiencing in getting trucks
through many alleys because of interfering tree branches, and encouraged citizens to help by
trimming their trees in the alley ways.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned  at 7:20  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 5, 2014