MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-06-09 | CLIP_ID: 428 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 428

    RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 June 9, 2014
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  P resent were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - M r. B rown, Mr . Co ok, M r. L una, D r. Rin ne, M r. Sha nor a nd Ms.  Willi ams.
ABSENT: Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles and Mr. Valdez.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois
Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA]  are considered to be
routine items by the governing  body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Cook , and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Brown and Mr. Shanor, Ag enda Item #25(j) was removed fr om the Consent Ag enda.  Mr .
Brown moved to appr ove remaining Consent Ag enda items, sec onded by Mr. L una.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Governing Body on May  27, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
 Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to determine w hether compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated in a portion of the
Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 26, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of
the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as the Del-Van Storage Park Annexation
(located at 5311 Dell Range Boulevard at the southwest corner of the intersection of Gysel Place
and Dell Range Boulevard).  Jim Flesher, Planning Services Department, reviewed requirements
and compliance of conditions contained in Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402, including specific information
indicating compliance with Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402(a)(i) through (vi).  Casey Palma, Steil Surveying
Services, agent for the applicant, stated the proposed pr operty meets the required conditions for
annexation and the parcel is tied to a lar ger development project area.  He advised a request for
postponement may be made at the upcoming Public Services Committee meeting as they are in the
process of scheduling neighborhood meetings to discuss the development project.  Upon inquiry,
it was advised the pr operty owner requested annexation of the parc el.  Ther e being no further
comments or input and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the
hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for the purpose of receiving input and comments on
the proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2015.
Lois Huff, City Treasurer, noted the budget has been presented and discussed at a Council work
session as well as prior Council and Committee of the Whole meetings.  She stated the general fund
budget proposed is in the amount of $47,229,809.00 with a total proposed budget amount of
$146,200,582.00, which includes the Board of Public Utilities (BOPU) water and sewer budgets.
Ms. Huff clarified the budget includes provisions for a 2.25% salary increase for non-uniformed and
sworn police officers, an additional contribution of .75% to the Wyoming retirement system for
eligible employees and a 6.25% increase for health insurance coverage.  She advised two additional
changes in the budget this year are the Solid Waste fund and allocation of charges to departments
for Fleet Maintenance services.  Ed Strader questioned the “indexing” and rate classes affiliated
with BOPU’s fee structure and commented on BOPU’s expenses (bonding) and fixed indebtedness.
There being no further comments or discussion and purpose of the public hearing having been met,
Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE - Approving and establishing revised water and sewer rates, tap and system
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties and septic and commercial
waste dump ra tes, as re commended by  the B oard of  Publi c Utilities.  Ed Strade r expressed
opposition to how fees are assessed for multi-family residential units vs. single family residential
dwellings, ref erencing a ha nd-out he provide d during  his comments, and spoke in fa vor of
equalizing the r ates.  Mr. Strade r also stated his conc erns with “inde xing” water ra tes to the
Consumer P rice Index.  L ea Bain r equested c larification r egarding the  rates f or sin gle family
dwellings vs. multi-family units.  Tim Wilson, BOPU Director, provided information on the rate
structure, advising the structure treats multi-family and single family dwellings equitably, explained
the rate design and reviewed fee examples based on the proposed rate.  Reporting for Finance
Committee, Mr. Brown advised there was no recommendation on the item from Committee.  Mr.
Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Mr. Shanor moved
to amend by  omitti ng the proposed inc rease amount to tap and sy stem development fe es as
evidenced in Exhibit C affiliated with the ordinance, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Discussion followed
on receipt of informa tion from the deve lopment fee study prior to approving the fe e increase,
proposed 3.4% increase based on the index, and intent of the proposed amendment, which is to keep
tap and system development fees at the current rate.  U pon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney,
stated his understanding of the motion to amend, which is to eliminate the proposed increase to tap
and system development fees only with no effect on the current rate.  Upon inquiry regarding how
much the increase in fees would generate, Mr. Wilson advised the tap and system development fees
increase as proposed in Exhibit C would be effective Jan. 1, 2015, if approved, and would generate
approximately $36,500.00 for water and $16, 300.00 for sewer funds.  Motion to amend  carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Discussion followed on a meeting held
at the library last year and information that was provided concerning BOPU’s fee structure.  Randy
Hays, BOPU, advised he would provide information from the meeting to members of the governing
body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Mr. Luna voting “no”. (#4025)
ORDINANCE - Amending Sections 2.76.020(A) and (B), Members-Terms-Vacancies, of
Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the
code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor
moved to approve on third and f inal reading, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4026)
ORDINANCE - Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation all for the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 2014 and en ding June 30, 2015.  Reporting  for Committee of the Whole, Dr.
Rinne moved to approve  on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion car ried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4027)
 ORDINANCE - Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste fee schedule established by
Ordinance No. 4013.  Mr. B rown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr.
Rinne.  Mr. Brown moved to p ostpone to Jun e 23, 2014, seconded by Mr. Cook.  M otion to
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code
(UDC), to allow Service Uses, Animal Care - Hospital/Clinic in the CBD Central Business District
after conditional discretionary review.  Mr. Shanor  moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry regarding how far a facility would need to be from a residential area,
Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, advised the ordinance applies to the
Central Business District, which has a mix of uses including both commercial and residential.  He
indicated conditional use approval will provide the process for reviewing a facility and its proposed
use relevant to the ordinance.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 3980 de fining the terms and c onditions of
employment for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne.  Mr. Brown moved to approve
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 3981 de fining the terms and conditions of
employment for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve on  se cond r eading, s econded b y Ms.  Willi ams.  Mo tion ca rried.  Vo ting “ yes” -- a ll
members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in
a portion of the N ortheast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 26, Township 14 North,
Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as the Del-Van Storage
Park Annexation (located at 5311 Dell Range Blvd. at the southwest corner of the intersection of
Gysel Place a nd Dell Rang e Blvd.) -- r eferred to Publi c Services Committ ee (sponsor -- Mr.
Shanor).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts E stablished, a nd Se ction 5 .1.3, O fficial Z oning M ap, o f th e Ch eyenne U nified
Development Code, chang ing the zoning classific ation from MU Mixe d Use (County), MUB
Mixed-Use B usiness Emphasis, and M R-1 Medium Density  Residential-Established to MUE
Mixed-Use Employment Emphasis for Del-Van Storage Park, being a replat of all of Goodwater
Addition, Goodwater Drive, and Water Blue Lane and a portion of the N ortheast Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter of Section 26, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south
of and adjacent to Dell Range Blvd., east of and adjacent to Van Buren Ave.) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the  submission of a Business Ready Community, Community
Readiness Grant Application, to the Wyoming Business Council on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for the Christensen Railroad Overpass and Corridor Project.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5595)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the Application of the City of Cheyenne for Transportation
Alternatives Progr am (TAP) F unding f or the Construction of the Saddle Ridg e Gr eenway
Connector.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5596)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for The
Pointe, Eighth Filing, a replat of Lot 14, Block 8, The Pointe, Fifth Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located west of and adjacent to Powderhouse Road, between Dorothy Lane and Michael Evans
Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cahill
Park Addition, Filing No. 2, a replat of Lot 2, Block 1, Cahill Park Addition, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Windmill Road and Dell Range Boulevard) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor). 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Westland
Holdings Addition, a replat of portions of Lots 4, 5, 6, and 7, Block 210, Original City, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of W. 22nd Street and Snyder Avenue)
-- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).  
[CA] RESOLUTION - A pproving the  bu dget of  the  L aramie Co unty Com munity Juve nile
Services Joint Powers Board for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2014 and ending June 30, 2015 --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2014 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has approved
City Projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for 2015-2016 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant funding -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] Memorandum of Unde rstanding betwee n the City  of Chey enne, T ransit Division, and
Laramie Cou nty, Wy oming, to  pr ovide pu blic tr ansportation s ervices to  L aramie Cou nty
Community College, City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to
the City.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to City $77,500.00). (#6180)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Stride Learning Center to provide cooperative
transit s ervices ( revenue to City ).  Mo tion ( per C onsent A genda) c arried ( revenue to C ity
$56,735.00). (#6181)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the
City of Cody , Wyoming, Pol ice Department, for law E nforcement Extraterritorial Assistance.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6182)
[CA] Department of Air Force License to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to use property located
on F.E. Warr en Air For ce Base, Wy oming, f or a pa rking lot for patrons a ttending the  2014
Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6183)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for United
States Department of the Air Force owned land located at  F.E. Warren Air Force Base to be used
and operated as a parking lot for public transportation services during the 2014 Cheyenne Frontier
Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6184)
     
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., and Laramie County School District No. 1 for buse s owned by the Laramie County School
District No. 1 to be used and operated for public transportation services during the 2014 Cheyenne
Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6185)
  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Chey enne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses
owned b y the  L aramie Cou nty Sc hool District N o. 1 to  be  us ed a nd op erated f or pu blic
transportation services during the 2014 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6186)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities during
the 2014 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6187)
Recycling Services Agreement with WM Recycle America, L.L.C., for baled residential
single stream recyclables and baled old cor rugated containers.  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body
present with the exception of Mr. Luna voting “no”. (#6188)
Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for employee Wellness
Coaching Services for the term of July 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015.  Rich Wiederspahn, Human
Resources Director, provided information on the effects of the program since its implementation;
tracking of data for the different risk levels (high, medium and low), and spoke in support of
continuing the Wellness P rogram for participating employees.  He  reviewed the City’s health
insurance coverage plans available as opti ons to eligible employees and difference in r ates to
employees in the pr ogram vs. those who c hoose not to be in the prog ram, and elements of the
program that participants must meet, such as a n annual health risk assessm ent, blood draw and
wellness coaching sessions.  He advised WINhealth is open to suggestions and ideas on how to
improve the program.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon inquiry, Mr.
Wiederspahn provided information on how employees have the choice to opt out of the program
and the effect of same on the premium amount that would be assessed to the employee (i.e. 25%
vs. 12.5% contribution rate), noting the Wellness Program is an incentive to lower the premium
amount paid by a participating employee.  Discussion included financial hardship to employees and
their families if they opt out of the program and the appearance of penalizing the employee; that no
incentives are offered to those employees who reduce their risk level; effect of the program based
on percentage of employee participation; cost of the program; potential for increased premiums if
the program was discontinued; personal lifestyle choices, and suggestion that the program elements
and benefits should be further  reviewed.  Upon inquiry, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, advised the
higher premium amounts paid by employees who are not in the program go into the general fund
to help pay costs.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” -- Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr.
Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Advanced Communications Technology
to permit limited use of the public right-of-way for the installation of fiber optics, and setting a fee
(revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6189)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Deep Green Energy, LLC, for replacement of
light fixtures in the George Cox and Jack R. Spiker parking facilities (Impact Assistance funds).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $241,237.00). (#6190)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for Employee Risk Sharing
Program for the term of July 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015 -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Hi Country Wire and Telephone,
Ltd., for the purchase, installation and training for ShoreTel Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP)
Telephone System (State Special Distribution funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use
of the Cheyenne Civic Center for the 2014-2015 Concert Season -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra  for use
of the Cheyenne Civic Center for Youth Education Concerts -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Children’s Museum of Cheyenne
for the le ase of City-owned property located a t 206 West L incolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Letter of Agreement between the Wyoming Main Street Program, the City of Cheyenne, and
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority, to promote the re vitalization of the de signated
downtown Main Street district of the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 5792 Memorandum of Understanding between the City
of Cheyenne and the 37  Helicopter Squadron of the United States Air Force for use of the Belvoirth
Ranch for helicopter training.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5792)
Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6130 between the City of Cheyenne and the
Wyoming Department of Transportation for Epoxy Striping (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Mr. Brown
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Rob Geringer, City Engineer, advised he would need to research what
warranty or guarantee provisions are included in the contract relative to the striping.  He explained
the modification is due to bids received by the state coming in higher than anticipated; the state bid
process, and that the engineer’s estimate is based on materials and work to be performed.  Motion
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as
amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#6130)
[CA] Addendum t o M aster G roup Co ntract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne a nd WI Nhealth
Partners for City employee health coverage for the term of July  1, 2014 through June 30, 2015.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6191) 
Addendum t o M aster G roup Con tract be tween the  City  of  Che yenne a nd WI Nhealth
Partners for City employee health coverage pertaining to the Transitional Reinsurance Program
Assessment Fee.  R ich Wiederspahn, Human Resourc es Director, clarified the fee is require d
pursuant to the federal Affordable Health Care Act and that the fee is based on the number of health
plan participants.  Mr. Br own moved to appr ove, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Moti on carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#6191)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-20-14 for a contract between the  City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and JTL Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Fiscal
Year 2014 City Overlay Project (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $2,762,454.80). (#6192)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-24-14 for furnishing one new 2014-2015, 3-4.4 cubic yard single
axle dump truck for the City of Cheyenne, Street and Alley Division (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax) --
referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration o f B id # R-26-14 f or a  c ontract f or f urnishing a nd in stalling Ci sco c ore
switches in conjunction with the Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) Telephone System -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-25-14 for f urnishing a nd installing update s to the licensed
microwave data communications link wireless replacements for the City of Cheyenne, Fire and
Rescue D epartment and Tra ffic D ivision (201 1-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- ref erred to Fina nce
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-22-14 for furnishing one to three medium/heavy duty, body on
chassis, low floor busses with wheelchair accessibility for the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division
(partial Federal funding) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-25-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Becker
Arena Produ cts, I nc., for  the re moval, furnishing  and installing of  a Ne w Sports Rubberized
Flooring system in the City-owned Ice and Events Center (Capital Equipment fund) -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-26-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Monument Builders, Inc., for the Airport Golf Shop Grinding Room
Addition (2011-2014 1% Sales Ta x, Golf Capital I mprovement fund)  -- r eferred to Fin ance
Committee. 
[CA] Request to a pprove an additional dispensing room for City of Cheyenne Limited Retail
Liquor L icensee AMVET S Pos t 10, located a t 3839 East L incolnway, Cheyenne Wyoming. 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Announcement was made that two Calcuttas, benefitting Cheyenne area charities, will be
held as follows:  Saturday, July 26, 2014 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in the Headquarters Tent located
in front of the Old West Museum, 4601 North Carey Avenue, Frontier Park, in conjunction with
the Championship Bull Riding eve nt, and Sunday, July 20, 2014 beg inning at 5:30 p.m. in the
Headquarters Tent located in front of the Old West Museum, 4601 North Carey Avenue, Frontier
Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the 2014 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration (10%
of proceeds to bona fide charities). 
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Carole J. Martin, to the Mayor’s Council
for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed June 23, 2014.
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Carla Thurin, Monique Meese, Mike
Sorenson, Gus Lopez, and Rob Dafoe to the Laramie County Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board,
to be confirmed June 23, 2014.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 23, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Ch ambers, 2 101 O ’Neil A venue, Ch eyenne, Wy oming, to  re ceive public c omments
regarding the intent of the City of Cheyenne to designate the use of excess monies from 2011-2014
1% Optional Sales Tax funds for r ight-of-way maintenance, for the L ake Minnehaha Phase I
Project, and for prioritized energy efficiency projects in City-owned facilities.
Under other business, Pete Laybourn submitteded a handout, titled Deploy Bucket Brigades
for Cheyenne Frontier Days, an element contained in a past Placemaking report, to governing body
members a nd encour aged implementation of its rec ommendations re garding c leaning and
beautification of downtown a reas prior to the upcoming Cheyenne Frontier Days event.  Mr.
Laybourn’s comments included the following topics: Downtown alley grease spill, Clean and Safe
program, banners and trees.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advised the Downtown Development
Association (DDA) is planning to replace some trees in the downtown area; that the Placemaking
plan was a dopted as a   g uideline, containing  a number  of re commendations, and that
implementation is based on funding and resources.  Comment was made concerning the condition
of a pillar and sidewalk near the DDA’s downtown office. 

There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned  at 7:42 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 24, 2014