MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-06-23 | CLIP_ID: 431 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 431

    RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 June 23, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and
Ms. Williams.  ABSENT: Mr. Cook.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received. Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Presentation of Wyoming Association of Municipalities (WAM) 2014 Innovations Awards
and Community Hero Awards.  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, reviewed awards the City of Cheyenne
recently received at the annual WAM convention as follows: Innovation Awards (projects/programs)
-- Development Standards Help Accommodate New Development, Mayor’s Youth Council Bullying
Project, Sanitation Routing Software, Roundabout Education, and Cone Zone Map; Community
Hero Awards (community enhancement projects) -- Cheyenne Police Department for its Citizens
Police Academy and Citizens on Patrol programs, Cheyenne Greenway Foundation, and the North
Cheyenne Community Park Partners for the soft surface trail system (Community Partners involved
with funding and materials assitance were: Paul Frauendienst, owner, Frauendienst Quality Homes;
Dan Gregg, owner, Gregg Construction; Larry Sutherland, real estate agent, #1 Properties, and Frank
Cole, local developer.  Mayor Kaysen recognized City staff and members of the community present
at the meeting who were involved in the projects and programs.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Mee ting of the Gover ning Body on J une 9, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Radio
Station KYOY-AM) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Valdez
returned to Council Chambers.
 Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive public comments regarding the intent of
the City of Cheyenne to designate the use of excess monies from 2011-2014 1% Optional Sales Tax
funds for right-of-way maintenance, for the Lake Minnehaha Phase I Project, and f or prioritized
energy efficiency projects i n City-owned facilities.  Vi cki Nemecek, Assistant Director, Public
Works, noted the heari ng was being he ld in conjunction with an aff iliated ag enda item ( i.e.
Resolution) and explained 1% Optional Sales Tax provisions regarding use of unanticipated overage
money.  She advised the estimated overage amount was $863,119.00 and reviewed the proposed uses
for the funds, noting the projects are listed in priority order.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek and Todd
Feezer, Assistant Director, Parks and Recreation Department, provided information in response to
queries concerning right-of-way maintenance areas involved, equipment, staffing  and budg eted
funding; Lake Minnehaha Phase I and proposed Phase II, when funding is available, and facilities
energy efficiency improvements to several city-owned buildings.  It was noted that the governing
body had prioritized 1% projects; staff had reviewed and prioritized the proposed projects for use
of the overage funds, and that the administration is looking into options to acquire funding for ADA
projects.  Discussion included future improvements and/or re-development of the city-owned parcel
of land adjacent to the southwest corne r of Holliday Park, near Lincolnway and Morrie Avenue.
There being no further comments or input and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor
Kaysen closed the hearing.  Mayor Kaysen noted the resolution affiliated with the hearing would be
discussed at the next Finance Committee meeting scheduled for July 7, 2014.
ORDINANCE - Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste fee schedule established by
Ordinance No. 4013 (postponed from 6/09/14).  Dino Moncecchi, Spartan Management, and George
Gliem, Cheyenne Landlord Association, spoke in opposition to the proposed fee increases, citing
concerns with multi-family units vs. single family residential rates, financial burden on tenants
residing in multi-family housing units, and cost of sanitation services vs. water and sewer services.
Mr. Moncecchi suggested that fee increases be “frozen”.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr.
Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Discussion included
the following topics: Consultant solid waste services rate study  and recommendations involving an
8% fee increase vs. staff’s proposed 3.4% increase, which is based on the Consumer Price Index
pursuant to ordi nance (provisions require staff to pre pare annual incr eases for g overning body
consideration based upon the Index); anticipated July time frame when the rate study information
will be provided to City Council members; funding needed for the Happy Jack Landfill closure and
expansion and Transfer Station expansion projects; increased routine operational and maintenance
costs; rates assessed to multi-family units such as duplexes and apartment buildings; current status
of the City’s application for a landfill (expansion) variance permit through the state; demonstrating
City efforts to fund the costs of solid waste operations relative to applying for state grants or loans;
content and comprehensiveness of elements included in the consultant’s study; meeting solid waste
community needs; City  Council decision to not approve r ate increa ses last y ear and cha nges
approved in assessing  commerci al account rates r esulting in re duced r evenue; Cit y Council’s
responsibility relative to determining fee increases and timing of same; concern with increased rates’
effect on individuals wi th fixed incomes, a nd waiting  to decide upon a ny incre ases until the
consultant’s study information, including staff comments and recommendations, have been received
and re viewed.  D uring discussion, J im Elias, Director of  Pu blic Works, provided detailed
information in response to queries, and Mayor Kaysen advised the pending Chamber of Commerce’s
development fee study will not specifically include all of the sanitation cost areas.  Mo tion to
approve failed ( City Clerk note: Passag e of a n ordinance on third and f inal reading requires the
affirmative vote of the majority (i.e. 6 “yes” votes) of the qualified members (10 members) of the
governing body).  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code
(UDC), to allow Service Uses, Animal Care - Hospital/Clinic in the CBD Central Business District
after conditional discretionary review.  Tiffany Healey, local veterinarian, spoke in support of the
ordinance.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and
final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present. (#4028)
ORDINANCE -  A mending O rdinance N o. 3 980 d efining th e te rms a nd c onditions of
employment for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne.  Mr. Brown moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Ms. Williams moved to amend by substitute,
seconded by Mr. Brown.  It was advised the purpose of the substitute is to remove wording affiliated
with the employee Wellness Program.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.  Main motion as amended c arried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present. (#4029)
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e N o. 3981 defining  the terms and c onditions of
employment for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Ms. W illiams moved to amend by
substitute, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  I t was advised the  purpose of  the substitute is t o remove
wording affiliated with the employee Wellness Program.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#4030)
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in
a portion of the N ortheast Quarter of the Nor thwest Quarter of Section 26, Township 14 North,
Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as the Del-Van Storage
Park Annexation (located at 5311 Dell Range Blvd. at the southwest corner of the intersection of
Gysel Place and Dell Range Blvd.).  Casey Palma, Steil Surveying Services, agent for the applicant,
advised a request was made at the Public Services Committee to postpone the item to allow for a
neighborhood meeting to be scheduled to discuss proposed development plans, noting an invitation
to the meeting would also be extended to governing body members.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Shanor moved to postpone to July 14,
2014, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.  Mayor Kaysen advised the item would be reviewed at the next Public
Services Committee meeting scheduled for July 8, 2014.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MU Mixed Use (County), MUB Mixed-Use Business
Emphasis, and MR-1 Medium Density Residential-Established to MUE Mixed-Use Employment
Emphasis for Del-Van Storage Park, being a replat of all of Goodwater Addition, Goodwater Drive,
and Water Blue Lane and a portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 26,
T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Dell Range Blvd.,
east of and adjacent to Van B uren Ave.).  Case y Palma, Steil S urveying Services, agent for the
applicant, advised a request was made at the Public Services Committee to postpone the item to
allow for a neighborhood meeting to be scheduled to discuss proposed development plans, noting
an invitation to the meeting would also be extended to governing body members. Mr. Shanor moved
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Shanor moved to postpone
to July 14, 2014, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present.  Mayor Kaysen advised the item would be reviewed at the next Public
Services Committee meeting scheduled for July 8, 2014.
 ORDINANCE - Amending Section 5.78.030(B)(5), Business License Required, of Chapter
5.78, Towing and Wrecker Recovery Operations, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of
the code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to F inance Committee (sponsor - - Mr.
Brown).
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code
(UDC), allowing automatic irrigation to be optional for drought tolerant seeded grass landscape areas
located in the LI-Light Industrial and HI-Heavy Industrial Zoning districts as initiated from the 2014
Annual Review -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
ORDINANCE - Amending Sections 5.36.070, 5.36.080, 5.36.090, 5.36.110, and 5.36.120,
of Chapter 5.36, Circuses, Carniva ls and Amusement Rides,  of Title 5, Business L icenses and
Regulations, of the code of the City of Cheyenne,Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Mayor and the  City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for The
Pointe, Eighth Filing, a replat of Lot 14, Block 8, The  Pointe, Fifth Filing , Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located west of a nd adjacent to Powderhouse Road, between Dorothy Lane and Michael Evans
Avenue).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5597)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cahill
Park Addition, Filing No. 2, a replat of Lot 2, Block 1, Cahill Park Addition, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Windmill Road and Dell Range Boulevard).
Mr. Shanor moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend to include
minor technical map edits as submitted t o City staff, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all members of the g overning body present.  Main motion as amended
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5598)
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Westland
Holdings Addition, a replat of portions of Lots 4, 5, 6, and 7, Block 210, Original City, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of W. 22nd Street and Snyder Avenue).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5599)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the budget of the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services
Joint Powers Board for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2014 and ending June 30, 2015.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5600)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fisca l Year 2014 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5601)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has approved
City Projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for 2015-2016 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant funding.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5602)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the use of excess monies from 2011 through 2014 Optional
One Percent Sales Tax for  right-of-way maintenance, for the Lake Minnehaha Phase I Project, and
for prioritized energy efficiency projects in City-owned facilities -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne supports the
Town of Pine Bluffs Project to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for 2013-2014
Countywide Consensus B lock Grant funding -- r eferred to Financ e C ommittee (sponsor --  Mr.
Brown).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Del-V an Storage Park, be ing a replat of all of Goodwa ter Addition,
Goodwater Drive, and Water Blue Lane and a portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest
Quarter of Sec tion 26, T.14N., R.66W ., 6th P.M., C heyenne, W yoming ( located south of a nd
adjacent to Dell Range Blvd., east of and adjacent to Van Buren Ave.) -- referred to Public Services
Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for Employee Risk Sharing
Program for the term of July 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#6195)
[CA] Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Hi Country Wire and Telephone,
Ltd., for the purchase, installation and training for ShoreTel Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP)
Telephone System (State Special Distribution funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $314,592.44). (#6196)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use of
the Cheyenne Civic Center for the 2014-2015 Concert Season.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(revenue to the City - $19,200.00). (#6197)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use of
the Cheyenne Civic Center for Youth Education Concerts.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $6,500.00). (#6198)
Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Children’s Museum of Cheyenne
for the lease of City-owned property located at 206 West Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Amy
Surdam, Board President, Children’s Museum of Cheyenne, requested the item be withdrawn from
the agenda, referencing a letter dated June 20, 2014 that had been submitted to governing body
members requesting same, and expressed the Board is looking forward to continuing discussions
with the City on a collaborative effort  to move forward with the museum project.  Upon query and
with no objection being raised by City Council members, Mayor Kaysen stated the item was being
withdrawn from the agenda.
[CA] Letter of Agreement between the Wyoming Main Street Program, the City of Cheyenne, and
Cheyenne D owntown Devel opment Authority , to promote the re vitalization of the de signated
downtown Main Street district of the  City of Cheyenne.  Motion (pe r Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#6199)
[CA] Project Development and Administration Ag reement between the City of Cheyenne, and
WILLCO I X Dev elopment, L LLP, for eleva ted pede strian walkwa y from the Jack R. Spiker
Downtown Parking Structure to hotel facilities to be constructed within Block 392, Original City,
Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, and WILLCO IX Development, LLLP, for
parking spaces within the Jack R. Spiker Downtown Parking Structure and for use of an elevated
pedestrian walkway from the Jack R. Spiker Downtown Parking Structure to hotel facilities to be
constructed within Block 392, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment Number 1 to Contract No. 5905 betwe en the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming
Department of Transportation, and the Tourism Promotion Joint Powers Board, for the Southwest
Drive Railroad Quiet Zone Project (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6067 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and L.E.R., d/b/a Renner Sports Surfaces for Martin Luther King, Jr., Park
Tennis Courts (Land and Water Conserva tion Grant, Ge neral Park funds) - - referred to F inance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 5781 between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for additional strate gic grant writing se rvices and assoc iated preliminary engineering
design required by grants to enable securing of additional grant funding for the Cheyenne West Edge
(Lower Capitol Basin) Projec t (1% Specif ic Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x) -- ref erred to Fina nce
Committee. 
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 6041 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation
Department, and AP Wyoming, LLC, for an Owner and Construction Manager At Risk (CMAR)
Guaranteed Maximum Price Ag reement for a dded scope  of ser vices for  the Municipal Pool
Renovation and Expansion Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax, Menard property sale
proceeds, one-time impact funds, Recreation mill levy grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-24-14 for furnishing one new 2014-2015, 3-4.4 cubic yard single
axle dump truck for the City of Cheyenne, Street and Alley Division (2011- 2014 1% Sales Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, including
trade-in; amount not to exceed $102,874.00).
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-26-14 for a  contra ct for furnishing and installing Cisco c ore
switches in conjunction with the Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) Telephone System.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from Hi Country Wire & Telephone, Arvada, Colorado;
amount not to exceed $85,004.00). (#6200)
[CA] Consideration o f Bid #R-25-14 for  furnishing  and installing upda tes to the licensed
microwave data communications link wireless re placements for the City  of Chey enne, Fire and
Rescue Department and Traffic Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (accept bid from Absolute Solutions, Cheyenne; amount not to exceed $37,982.00).
Consideration of B id #R-22-14 for furnishing one to three me dium/heavy duty, body on
chassis, low floor busses with wheelchair accessibility for the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division
(partial Federal funding).  Mr. Brown moved to reject the bid submitted, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Consideration of Bid #M-25-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Becker
Arena Products, Inc., Savage, MN, for the removal, furnishing and installing of a New Sports
Rubberized Flooring system in the City-owned Ice and Events Center (Capital Equipment fund).
Mr. Brown moved to a ccept the bid in a n amount not to exceed $89,950.00, seconded by Ms.
Broyles.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone to July 14, 2014, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon inquiry,
Todd Feezer, Assistant Director, Parks and Recreation Department, stated the bids received were
higher than estimated and postponing the item will allow time for staff to r eview the budget to
determine whether funding is available.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present.
Consideration of B id #M-26-14 for  a contr act between the City of Chey enne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Monument Builders, Inc., for the Airport Golf Shop Grinding Room
Addition (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax, Golf Capital Improvement fund).  Mr. Brown moved to reject
the bid submitted, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.
Appointment of Carole J. Martin, to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities.  Mr.
Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the g overning body  prese nt with the exception of May or Ka ysen who did  not vote (May oral
appointment).
Re-Appointments of Carla Thurin, Monique Meese, Mike Sorenson, Gus Lopez, and Rob
Dafoe to the Laramie County Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Valde z.  Mot ion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 14, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance
of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated in the
north 102 feet of Tracts 323 and 324, Sunnyside Addition, 7th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located south of and adjacent to Rock Springs Street, east of and adjacent to Pierce Avenue, and
west of and adjacent to Polk Avenue). 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 14, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance
of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated in the
south ½ of Trac ts 105 and 106, Sunny side Addition, Fourth F iling, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Monroe Avenue and Charles Street).
Announcement was made of the Appointment of James C. Fuller, to the Historic Preservation
Board, to be confirmed July 14, 2014.
Announcement was made of the Re-appointment of David Ohde, to the Cheyenne Downtown
Development Authority Board, to be confirmed July 14, 2014.
Under other business:
Frank Cole suggested consideration of a sidewalk extension with landscaping improvements,
including fe ncing, to  c onnect w ith the  Ai rport Pa rkway bik e/walkway pa th f rom Ch eshire to
Converse Avenue, as part of the next 1% Optional Sales Tax (5  penny) ballot question.th
Appreciation was expressed to Special Projects Division staff for their assistance with the
Brewfest event held over the weekend.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore t he governing body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:50 p.m.
 
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 30, 2014