MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-07-14 | CLIP_ID: 435 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 435

    RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 July 14, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Recognition o f “Cheyenne Wee kend”, be ing pr oduced by  C-SPAN and Charter
Communications, to be aired on Book TV and American History TV in the Fall of 2014.  Ashley
Hill, with the C-SPAN Cities Tour Project, advised a filming crew was in Cheyenne partnering with
Charter Communications to spotlight the community through coverage of various places, activities
and interviews.  She indicated the production would be aired on Book TV and American History TV
channels the weekend of September 6 and 7, 2014, and will also be available on C-SPAN’s website
for future vie wing.  Ms. Hill expressed appreciation to the City and Charter Communications for
welcoming them to the community and for their assistance.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received. Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor declared a conflict of interest pertaining to agenda item
#26(b).  Mayor Kaysen advised procedurally that since the item was being introduced on the agenda,
it would be referred to Finance Committee and no action would be taken at the current meeting,
noting declaring a conflict of interest would be appropriate for the July 28  meeting.  Mr. Brownth
moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on June 23, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and Radio Stations KRAE-AM and KYOY- FM
respectively) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry, Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director; Mayor
Kaysen; Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director; Rob Geringer, City Engineer; Jim Elias, Public
Works Director, a nd Lois Huff, City  Treasurer, provided infor mation relative to the following
vouchers:  All Traffic Data Services, Inc.; AM Signal, Inc.; Ayers Associates; CPS Distributors;
Express Services, Inc.; Solid Waste Professional of Wyoming, LLC; Wyoming Network, Inc.; PAC
(Firefighters) Fund and Nebraska Child Support Payment Center.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the
vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to determine w hether compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated in the north 102 feet
of Tracts 323 and 324, Sunnyside Addition, 7th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south
of and adjacent to Rock Springs Stree t, east of a nd adjacent to Pierce  Avenue, and we st of and
adjacent to Polk Avenue).  Jim Flesher, Planning  Service s Depa rtment, stated the pr oposed
annexation is pursuant to a petition submitt ed by Richardson Home s and that re quirements and
compliance of annexation conditions contained in state statutes had been met.  Upon inquiry, Mr.
Flesher advised the parcel is part of an existing county pocket.  Mayor Kaysen advised Agenda Item
#16 is a companion item.  Ther e being no further comments or input and purpose of the he aring
having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to d etermine whether compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated in the south ½ of
Tracts 105 and 106, Sunnyside Addition, Fourth Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the
northeast corner of the intersection of Monroe Avenue and Charles Street).  Logan Graves, Planning
and Development Office, stated the proposed annexation is pursuant to a petition submitted by the
William Pendley family and that requirements and compliance of annexation conditions contained
in state statutes had been met.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Graves confirmed the purpose of the annexation
request is for a single family home to connect to City water and sewer services.  There being no
further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the
hearing.  Mayor Kaysen advised Agenda Item #17 is a companion item.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in
a portion of the N ortheast Quarter of the Nor thwest Quarter of Section 26, Township 14 North,
Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as the Del-Van Storage
Park Annexation (located at 5311 Dell Range Blvd. at the southwest corner of the intersection of
Gysel Place and Dell Range Blvd.) (Postponed from June 23, 2014).  Arden and Sharon Carlberg,
and Kathy Scheurman, residents in the vicinity, spoke in opposition to a zone change affiliated with
the annexation, and indicated their desire that the property zone remain for residential use.  They
expressed concerns that if the property were developed for storage sheds it would negatively impact
property values in the neighborhood; that a proposed zone change to MUE (Mixed-Use Employment
Emphasis) “does not fit” the neighborhood, and commented on drainage concerns.  Ms. Carlberg
submitted a le tter in opposition (on file with Cit y Clerk’s off ice) and distributed photos of her
residential property adjacent to the parcel.  Casey Palma, Steil S urveying Services, agent for the
applicant, advised the annexation ordinance “is tied” to the zone change ordinance and preliminary
plat items (i.e. Agenda Items #10 and #23) and noted a neighborhood meeting was recently held to
discuss proposed development plans for the parcel in an effort to mitigate some of the neighbors’
concerns.  He provided information on drainage and storm water detention and engineering plans;
past proposed uses for the property that have not materialized, and the reasons for requesting the
MUE type zone classification.  He noted the current developers have structured their contract plans
to acquire the property based upon development of a storage park at the location and that the project
should have a low traffic effect on the neighborhood and that landscape buffering between residential
homes and the storage park would be provided.  Jerry Ciz, managing developer partner, advised they
had reviewed different development projects for the property and determined that storage units
would be the best use; provided information on the operational and management aspects, including
security and lig hting, planne d for the busine ss, and th e traffic asse ssment study ; advised a
neighborhood meeting had been held, and confirmed the developers have no interest in any other
type of development project for the property.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Up on inquiry, Dan White, City
Attorney, advised regardless of the ordinance content referring to the annexation as the Del-Van
Storage Park Annexation, the ordinance follows the same format as any other annexation ordinance
and if a nnexed the proper ty would become  subject t o the City’s jurisdiction and deve lopment
requirements.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Carlberg delineated where her residence is located relative to the
proposed annexation area.  Co mments followed regarding possible development of the property
through county approval if it is not annexed, and the motion before the governing body involving
annexation, not re-zoning.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with
the exception of Ms. Broyles, Mr. Luna and Ms. Williams voting “no”. 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MU Mixed Use (County), MUB Mixed-Use Business
Emphasis, and MR-1 Medium Density Residential-Established to MUE Mixed-Use Employment
Emphasis for Del-Van Storage Park, being a replat of all of Goodwater Addition, Goodwater Drive,
and Water Blue Lane and a portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 26,
T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Dell Range Blvd.,
east of and adjacent to Van Buren Ave.) (Postponed from 6/23/14).  Sha ron Carlberg spoke in
opposition to the proposed zone change, referencing her comments on the previous item.  Casey
Palma, Steil Surveying Services, agent for the applicant, confirmed the developers have no interest
in developing the prope rty for anything other than for stora ge units and indicate d if any  of the
required approvals through the City (i.e. annexation, re-zoning and final plat) were not received, the
developers would not file applica ble documents (a nnexation ordinance a nd/or final plat) f or
effectiveness and the project would not move forward.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Upon inquiry, Jerry Ciz, managing developer partner, advised a
study on storage unit needs in the community and particularly within the project area was done to
ascertain the public demand level.  Upon query, Mr. Ciz and Mr. Palma provided information on the
proposed storage unit “hig h tech” facility; unit sizes, and r easons for requesting the MUE zone
classification, which include better  aesthe tics and stree tscape amenities.  Discussion included
elements required and uses allowed under a MUE zone and differences between other zone types;
current mixed use zone for the property; buffering; traffic; drainage; conditional use approval for the
storage unit project that will be required through the Board of Adjustment; concerns involving
potential future uses of the property under a MUE zone if the storage unit project does not proceed,
and property owner and developer contractual arrangements.  During discussion and upon inquiry,
Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, provided information on development
of infill sites and advised review and consideration of other zoning classifications was conducted
with the MUE zone being supported by staff.  Mr. Cammarata also provided general information on
design standards a nd buffe ring require ments for other  zone ty pes pursua nt to th e Unifie d
Development Code (UDC).  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Dr.
Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Luna, Mr. Valdez and Ms.
Williams.  Mayor Kaysen advise d the will be re viewed a t the J uly 22, 2014 Public Services
Committee meeting.
 ORDINANCE - Amending Section 5.78.030(B)(5), Business License Required, of Chapter
5.78, Towing and Wrecker Recovery Operations, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of
the code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved
to a pprove on  se cond r eading, s econded b y Mr . Valdez.  Mo tion c arried.  Voting “y es” -- a ll
members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code
(UDC), allowing automatic irrigation to be optional for drought tolerant seeded grass landscape areas
located in the LI-Light Industrial and HI-Heavy Industrial Zoning districts as initiated from the 2014
Annual Revie w.  Mr. Shanor move d to approve  on second r eading, seconde d by  Mr. Allen.
Discussion included the following:  Comments in support as well as non-support of the proposed
change; option availability to new LI and HI zone developments or redevelopments if the ordinance
is approved; aesthetics; water conservation; concern that requests for other zones types to have the
same option may be received; weeds and natural grasses, and gateways into the community.  Upon
inquiry, Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, advised the option would be
applied to any development; provided information on when existing developments may be allowed
the option; indicated that weeds and run-off issues will still be the responsibility of the landowner,
and reviewed differences between the zones involving landscaping requirements for undeveloped
lands.  He stated the amendment proposed was a topic raised during the annual review process of
the Unified D evelopment Code ( UDC).  A list of L I and HI  zoned areas within the City was
requested to be provided to governing body members prior to third reading of the ordinance.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Broyles and
Ms. Williams voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Amending Sections 5.36.070, 5.36.080, 5.36.090, 5.36.110, and 5.36.120,
of Chapter 5.36, Circuses, Carnivals and Amuseme nt Rides, of Title 5, Business L icenses and
Regulations, of the code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Shanor  moved to approve  on
second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Upon inquiry regarding requirements and qualifications
of amusement ride oper ators and thos e assembling rides, Mayor Kaysen provided inf ormation
relative to ride owners and operators responsibilities, noting the ordinance primarily addresses ride
inspections.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 5.12.040(A)(1)(B), Insurance - Term of Licenses and
Permits - Renewal of Annual Licenses, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Beverages, of Title 5, Business
Licenses and Regulations, of the code  of the City  of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor - Ms. Broyles).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom A R A gricultural Re sidential to CB  Com munity
Business for Lots 1, 5 through 8, Block 2, all of Blocks 3 and 4, Countryside Addition and a portion
of the NE¼ of Section 26, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as US 30
Business Plaza (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of US Highway 30 and Whitney
Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor). 
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in
the north 102 feet of Tracts 323 and 324, Sunnyside Addition, 7th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located south of and adjacent to Rock Springs Street, east of and adjacent to Pierce Avenue, and
west of and adjacent to Polk Avenue) to be known as the Diamond Estates 5  Filing Annexation --th
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor). 
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the South ½ of Tracts 105 and
106, Sunnyside Addition, Fourth Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner
of the in tersection of Monroe  Avenue  and Charle s Street), to be know n as the 4204 Char les
Annexation -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the use of excess monies from 2011 through 2014 Optional
One Percent Sales Tax for  right-of-way maintenance, for the Lake Minnehaha Phase I Project, and
for prioritized energy efficiency projects in City-owned facilities.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#5603)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne supports the
Town of Pine Bluffs Project to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for 2013-2014
Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5604)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Rescinding Resolution No. 4738 establishing guidelines for amount to be
maintained in the City of Cheyenne General Fund Reserves and establishing revised guidelines for
amount to be maintained in the Unrestricted Fund Balance of the City of Cheyenne General Fund --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen and Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to Sign a Final Plat for
“Refinement A” , T he B luffs, 8  Fi ling, a r eplat o f Lot  1 0, Bl ock 1 1, T he B luffs, 8 th Fi ling,th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Pattison Avenue a nd
Point Bluff) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the continuation of the O ptional One Percent Sales Tax for
calendar years 2015 through 2018 and pledging that all revenues derived from this tax will be used
for projects described in this Resolution -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:10 p.m. 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Del- Van Storage Park, being a re plat of all of Goodw ater Addition,
Goodwater Drive, and Water Blue Lane and a portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest
Quarter of Sec tion 26, T.14N., R.66W ., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming ( located south of a nd
adjacent to Dell Range Blvd., east of and adjacent to Van Buren Ave.).  Mr. Shanor moved to amend
the Planning Commission recommendation and approve the Preliminary Plat in accordance with
UDC Section 2.1.2.c.5, with t he condition that the applicant pr ovide a r evised dra inage study
satisfactory to the Engineering Department and indicate easements for water lines and stormwater
detention satisfactory to staff on the F inal Plat, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion ca rried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Project Development and Administration Ag reement between the City of Cheyenne, and
WILLCO I X Deve lopment, L LLP, for eleva ted pede strian walkwa y from the Jack R. Spiker
Downtown Parking Structure to hotel facilities to be constructed within Block 392, Original City,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6204)
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, and WILLCO IX Development, LLLP, for
parking spaces within the Jack R. Spiker Downtown Parking Structure and for use of an elevated
pedestrian walkway from the Jack R. Spiker Downtown Parking Structure to hotel facilities to be
constructed within Block 392, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#6205)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County Community
Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth at J ohnson
Junior High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Eight grant funds) -- referredst
to Finance Committee.
[CA] Education Af filiation Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, F ire a nd Rescue
Department, and Laramie County Community College (LCCC), for  hands on education and learning
experiences through LCCC Emergency Medical Technician Education and Learning Experiences
Program -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization
and Ayres Associates for the Ever s Boulevard Rehabilitation 35% De sign Plan (MPO Planning
funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Municipal Court, and Justice Systems, Inc. for
FullCourt Enterprise software, maintenance and support, including C itePayUSA services, for a
comprehensive case management system (Impact Assistance Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
shelter services -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
control services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment Number 1 to  Contract No. 5905 betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming
Department of Transportation, and the Tourism Promotion Joint Powers Board, for the Southwest
Drive Railroad Quiet Z one Project (2011-2014 1% Sale s Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#5905)
Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6067 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and L.E.R., d/b/a Renner Sports Surfaces for Martin Luther King, Jr., Park
Tennis Courts (Land and Water Conservation Grant, General Park funds).  Mr. Brown moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by including change orders #1 and #2
for a total amount not to ex ceed $1,890.00, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion to amend carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body. (#6067)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 5781 between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for additional strate gic grant writing services and associated preliminary engineering
design required by grants to enable securing of additional grant funding for the Cheyenne West Edge
(Lower Capitol Basin) Project (1%  Specific Purpose  Sales &  Use Ta x).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5781) 
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 6041 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation
Department, and AP Wyoming, LLC, for an Owner and Construction Manager At Risk (CMAR)
Guaranteed Maxi mum Price Ag reement for a dded scope  of ser vices for  the Municipal Pool
Renovation and Expansion Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax, Menard property sale
proceeds, one-time impact funds, Recreation mill levy grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#6041)
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 5930 between the City of Cheyenne and KONE, Inc., to
add the Depot Plaza and Fire Training Facility hydraulic elevators to the master services contract --
referred to Finance Committee.  
Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6115 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, for asbestos and lead abatement for the Cheyenne Public Safety
Center Project (1% Specif ic Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x) -- referred to Finance Committee.  Mr.
Brown advised due to timing involving construction of the proposed project, the item was discussed
under other items for the agenda at the July 7  Finance Committee meeting and provisions of Titleth
2 of City  Code had be en met.  Mr . Brown moved to appr ove in an a mount not to ex ceed
$266,409.00, seconded by Mr. L una.  L t. Mark Munar i, Cheyenne Police D epartment, P roject
Manager for the Cheyenne Public Safety Center, advised they are close to being done with the design
and construction documents and in order to complete them remediation for the removal of asbestos
and lead abatement must be done.  He noted funding is already approved but approval to expend the
funds for this purpose is needed.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body. (#6115)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5927 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and AVI, PC for design and engineering services on Polk Avenue greenway
segment ( 1% Spe cific Pur pose Sa les &  Us e Ta x & Wy oming B usiness C ouncil Co mmunity
Enhancement grant) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Consideration of Bid #M-25-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Becker
Arena Products, Inc., Savage,  MN, for the removal, furnishing and installing of a New Sports
Rubberized Flooring system in the City -owned Ice and Events Center ( Capital Equipment fund)
(Postponed from June 23, 2014).  Mr. Brown moved to reject all bids, seconded by Ms. Broyles.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-3-15 for the sale of surplus property described as Lots 1 & 2, Block
15, Roberts Place , an addition to t he City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (generally
located at the southwest corner O'Neil Avenue and 5th Street) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-1-15 for furnishing one new 2014 - 2015 aerial device for the City
of Cheyenne, Traffic Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-29-14 for furnishing 96 new mobile tablets with active docking and
electronics for the  City  of Cheyenne, Police De partment (Police G rant) - - re ferred to F inance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid  #R-28-14 for furnishing 900 95-gallon and 700 65-gallon automated
refuse carts for the Public Works Department, Sanitation Division (Impact Assistance fund, Solid
Waste Recycle fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-27-14 for a contrac t betwee n the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division and Intermountain Slurry Seal, Inc., Salt Lake City, Utah, for  Fiscal Year
2014 Slurry Seal Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-30-14 for  a cont ract between the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and Sim on Contractors, Chey enne, Wyoming, for the F iscal Year 2014
Community Development Block Grant  Sidewalk Area Benefit Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax,
Community Development Block Grants - 1% Sidewalk) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Appointment of James C. Fuller, to the Historic Preservation Board.  Mr. Shanor moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Re-appointment of David Ohde, to the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority Board.
Dr. Rinne moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral
appointment).
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointment of Ronnald J. Jeffrey, to the Laramie
County Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board, to be confirmed July 28, 2014. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 28, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership for a
retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Red Lobster Hospitality LLC
d/b/a Red Lobster #0 639, 1923 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by
GMRI, Inc. d/b/a Red Lobster #0639, 1923 Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Under other business, Pete Laybourn commented on the redevelopment of the downtown area
pursuant to the Historic Placemaking Plan, citing areas of disrepair and the need to make downtown
“sparkle”, particularly for the upcoming annual Frontier Days celebration.  During his comments he
submitted copies of a recent edition of a Denver, CO newspaper, noting similarities in downtown
improvement projects between the two cities, and expressed concerns with downtown landscaping,
the Downtown Development Authority, condition of alleys, and lack of coordination of services. 
There being  no further  business to co me before the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:35 p.m.
 
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 28, 2014 