MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-07-28 | CLIP_ID: 438 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 438

    RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 July 28, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS -
Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms.
Williams.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  ( All agenda items listed wi th the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other
members is received. Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal
sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by Ms. Broyles
and Dr. Rinne, Agenda Item #18 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  M r. Shanor moved to
approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 14, 2014.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. V aldez de clared a  conflict of  int erest ( business in terest i n v ouchers pa yable to R adio
Stations KRAE-AM and KYOY-FM) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve
payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote,
Mr. Valdez returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a retail liquor license
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Red Lobster Hospitality LLC d/b/a Red Lobster #0639,
1923 Dell Range Boulevard., Cheyenne, Wyoming  (License currently held by GMRI, Inc. d/b/a Red
Lobster #0639, 1923 Dell Range Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  There being no comments or input
and the purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the
application to Finance Committee. 
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in a
portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 26, Township 14 North, Range
66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be  known as the Del-Van Storage Park
Annexation (located at 5311 Dell Range Blvd. at the southwest corner of the intersection of Gysel Place
and Dell Range Blvd.).  Jeff Fox, co-owner of the property, provided a brief history regarding their past
plans to develop the property to build 4-plexes and reasons why the development did not move forward.
He stated the owners decided to list the property for sale, and commented in support of the storage park
project a ffiliated w ith the  a nnexation.  Pu rsuant t o c onfirmation f rom Mayor Ka ysen th at th eir
comments could also address zoning concerns (i.e. affiliated with next agenda item), Sharon and Arden
Carlberg, adjacent property owners, spoke in opposition to the proposed zone change and indicated their
desire that the proper ty remain zoned for residential use.  Their c omments included the following
concerns: Impact on nearby property values; undesirable aspects of living next to storage shed units;
lack of an on-site manager, and the possibility of a change in project plans that may include a future re-
zoning request.  Ms. Carlberg submitted a handout in conjunction with her comments (on file with City
Clerk’s office).  Mr. Carlber g stated that as f ollow-up to information stated at a previous meeting
concerning a shortag e of available storage rental units in t he community, he had c ontacted several
businesses providing rental units and his research reflected a lack of evidence to support that a shortage
of available units exists.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body with the exception of Mr. Luna and Ms. Williams voting “no”.  (#4031)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MU Mixed Use (County), MUB Mixed-Use Business
Emphasis, and MR-1 Medium Density  Residential-Establish ed to MUE Mix ed-Use Employment
Emphasis for Del-Van Storage Park, being a replat of all of Goodwater Addition, Goodwater Drive, and
Water Blue Lane and a portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 26, T.14N.,
R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Dell Range Blvd., east of and
adjacent to Van Buren Ave.).  Mayor Kaysen advised the item was related to the previous agenda item.
Casey Palma, Steil Surveying Services, agent for the developers, noted discussions have been held with
vicinity landowners in an effort to address concerns; stated the MUE zone allows flexibility for use with
buffering protections, and advised approval from the Board of Adjustment will also be required to build
the storage units on the property.  Mr. Palma indicated that portions of the property are currently zoned
as MR-1, Mixed Use and MUB, and confirmed the developers have no interest in pursuing any other
type of development project for the property.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Mr. Cook.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Palma re viewed the ty pes of landsc ape ma terial
envisioned to be planted in the 15 ft. buffer around the perimeter area and discussions held wi th
adjacent property owners regarding the type of trees landowners would prefer.  Upon inquiry regarding
the shortage of storage units in the community, Jerry Ciz, co-developer, Del-Van Storage Park, advised
they will be developing  larger size units, which are  in sho rt demand, vs. smaller units which a re
available.  Upon inquiry, Jim Flesher, Planning and Development Office, clarified that, pursuant to the
zoning type, it would be a violation for persons to live in the units, and Mr. Palma explained that no
electricity/power in the units, other than exterior lighting, is proposed to avoid someone attempting to
live in or operate a business out of a unit.  Upon inquiry regarding potential loss of surrounding property
values, Mr. Ciz advised they have not seen any specific studies regarding either a decrease or increase
in property values regarding storage units near residential areas, noting storage units have marketability
qualities such as low traffic.  He explained an automated management system doesn’t mean that there
won’t be a property maintenance presence on the grounds.  Sharon Carlberg, adjacent property owner,
commented in opposition to the proposed zone change, referencing a national study she had read that
reflected a residential area next to a commercial industrial development decreases property values, and
expressed that in addition to the undesirable e ffect of viewing the storage units from her home, she
believes the units will affect her property’s value.  Motion ca rried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr .
Brown, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Luna,
Dr. Rinne and Ms. Williams. (#4032)
 ORDINANCE - Amending Section 5.78.030(B)(5), Business License Required, of Chapter 5.78,
Towing and Wrecker Recovery Operations, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the code
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body. (#4033)
ORDINANCE - A mending various sec tions o f the Cheyenne U nified De velopment Code
(UDC), allowing automatic irrigation to be optional for drought tolerant seeded grass landscape areas
located in the LI-Light Industrial and HI-Heavy Industrial Zoning districts as initiated from the 2014
Annual Review.  Speaking in support of the ordinance were:  Jean Vetter, who read a statement (on file
with City Clerk’s office) involving the positive aspects of native drought tolerant grasses and utilizing
alternate landscaping methods; John Volk, resident and local developer, who noted the cost of watering
large sodded grass areas, and Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, commenting that the change
supports private property owner rights by giving landowners an option and promotes env ironmental
sustainability through water conservation measures.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final
reading, seconded by Mr. B rown.  Upon inquiry , Brandon Cammarata, Planning a nd Development
Director, referred to a City map included in the staff report depicting the locations of LI and HI zoned
areas, and provided information on acreage sizes and locations generally of the two z ones involved,
noting that some LI zones are “sprinkled throughout” the City.  Comments followed in support of the
ordinance.  Motion  carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4034)
ORDINANCE - Amending Sections 5.36.070, 5.36.080, 5.36.090, 5.36.110, and 5.36.120, of
Chapter 5.36, Circuses, Carnivals and Amusement Rides, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations,
of the c ode of the  City of Chey enne, Wyoming.  Mr. Shanor moved to appr ove on third and f inal
reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body. (#4035)
ORDINANCE - A mending Section 5.12.040(A)( 1)(B), I nsurance - Te rm of L icenses and
Permits - R enewal of Annual Licenses, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Beverages, of Title 5, Business
Licenses and Regulations, of the code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mike Moser, Executive
Director, Wyoming State Liquor Association, commented on behalf of Laramie County liquor licensee
Association members, and also in support of the Wyoming TIPS (Training for Intervention ProcedureS)
Program.  Mr. Moser spoke in opposition to the proposed ordinance and provided information on the
TIPS program, advising of the training he and other volunteers provide throughout the state; on-line
training and affiliated fee for participants vs. benefits of no cost in-person classes; educational video
viewed by alcohol servers prior to employment duties, which is followed by the 4 hour TIPS training
class within 90 days of the server’s employment date as currently required by City Code, and reasons
for r etaining the cur rent 90 da y time frame  vs. the proposed c hange to 30 day s.  He re viewed
employment scenarios and difficulties for new-hire employees relative to acquiring the training in a
lesser time period; personal employment and management hardships that may occur if the change to 30
days was appr oved, and submitted (on f ile with City Clerk’s off ice) and discussed state  estimates
(percentages) of underage alcohol use and self purchase of alcohol data issued by the Substance Abuse
and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA).  He expressed his belief that the majority of
underage individuals are not successfully purchasing alcohol themselves and are acquiring by other
means, and noted the positive percentage of City liquor licensees that met recent compliance checks and
cooperative teamwork efforts between licensees and local law enforcement.  Kevin Georges, loca l
liquor business owner/operator, reviewed concerns of bar owners and liquor establishment operators
with the proposed change to a 30 day time frame (from date of employment) in which servers would
need to acquire TIPS training, which could affect licensees, license status and continuing employment
of staff.  Mr. B rown moved to approve on se cond reading, seconded by Ms. Broy les.  Discussion
included the following topics: Allowing employers the time to evaluate new employees by retaining the
90 d ay t raining time frame; i mportance o f T IPS t raining; co ncern wi th al cohol s ales t o u nderage
individuals by servers who have not yet received training; number of state-wide TIPS trainers; proposed
ordinance not addressing the primary issue of underage drinking, and ordinance change burden on
licensees and management.  Motion to approve f ailed.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Broyles and Dr. Rinne.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez, Ms. Williams and
Mayor Kaysen.  Under other business, Ms. Broyles provided information regarding Municipal Court
bond schedules that assist with holding servers and bar owners accountable, when violating laws
relating to alc ohol service  to undera ge in dividuals, as well as unde rage y ouths who are  caug ht
attempting to purchase alcohol.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from AR Agricultural Residential to CB Community Business
for Lots 1, 5 through 8, Block 2, all of Blocks 3 and 4, Countryside Addition and a portion of the NE¼
of Section 26, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as US 30 Business Plaza
(located at the southwest corner of the intersection of US Highway 30 and Whitney Road).  Mr. Shanor
moved to approve  on second r eading, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Upon inqui ry regarding the cost of
producing the conceptual site plan, John Sayers, speaking on behalf of  Edwards Development, advised
they pr oduced th e pla n in -house a nd if  the y wo uld ha ve “ gone outs ide” it wo uld ha ve c ost
approximately $18,000 to $20,000 to prepare.  Discussion comments included appreciation of receiving
the conceptual plan, and concern that requesting a conceptual site plan from a developer should not be
expected as a standard practice when the issue bef ore the governing body may be an a nnexation or
zoning action i n re cognition t hat t here may be considerable c ost t o t he d eveloper i n p reparing a
conceptual site plan, which is not a requirement affiliated with a zone change action.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the  governing body. 
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in the
north 102 feet of Tra cts 323 and 324, Sunny side Addition, 7th Filing, L aramie County, Wyoming
(located south of and adjacent to Rock Springs Street, east of and adjacent to Pierce Avenue, and west
of and adjacent to Polk Avenue) to be known as the Diamond Estates 5  Filing Annexation.  Mr. Shanorth
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the  governing body.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the South ½ of Tracts 105 and
106, Sunnyside Addition, Fourth Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of
the intersection of Monroe Avenue and Charles Street) to be known as the 4204 Charles Annexation.
Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the  governing body.  
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC)
as initiated from the 2014 Annual Review, to increase point values for larger evergreen trees, deciduous
trees, and shrub planting s, and re duce point v alues for lar ge expanses of turf  g rass for  all sites
throughout the City  requiring  landsca pe improveme nts -- re ferred to Public Service s Commi ttee
(sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
RESOLUTION - Resc inding Resolution No. 473 8 establishing guidelines for a mount to be
maintained in the City of Cheyenne General Fund Reserves and establishing revised guidelines for
amount to be maintained in the Unrestricted Fund Balance of the City of Cheyenne General Fund.  Mr.
Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Concern was raised with wording contained in the 3rd
“Be It Further Resolved”clause.  Support for the basic intent of the resolution was expressed and it was
noted that language changes, if needed, could be made in the future.  During a comment referring to
pending litigation involving the City, Mayor Kaysen clarified the litigation referenced was not affiliated
with the proposed resolution.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with
the exception of Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”. (#5605)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to Sign a Final Plat for “Refinement
A”, The Bluffs, 8  Filing, a replat of Lot 10, Block 11, The Bluffs, 8th Filing, Cheyenne, Wyomingth
(located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Pattison Avenue and Point Bluff).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5606)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting  the continuation of the O ptional One Perc ent Sales Tax for
calendar years 2015 through 2018 and pledging that all revenues derived from this tax will be used for
projects described in this Resolution.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5607) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for US 30
Business Plaza, a replat of Lots 1, 5 thru 8, Block 2, all of Blocks 3 and 4, Countryside Addition and
a portion of the NE¼ of Section 26, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
southwest c orner o f t he int ersection of US Hig hway 30  a nd Whit ney Roa d) -- referred to  Pub lic
Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) Application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the Transfer Station Upgrade
Phase II -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving Fund for an amount
not to exceed $1,878,825 for Fiscal Year 2015 Distribution System Rehabilitations and authorizing the
Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and
all related loan documents -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment Board for a Loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving Fund for an amount
not to ex ceed $589,800 for the RL  Sherard Powdered Activated Carbon F eed System Project and
authorizing the Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the
application and all related loan documents -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County Community
Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth at Johnson Junior
High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Eigh t grant funds).  Motion (perst
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6210)
[CA] Education Affiliation Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue Department,
and Laramie County Community College (LCCC), for  hands on education and learning experiences
through LCCC Emergency Medical Technician Education and Learning Experiences Program.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6211)
Professional Services Agreement between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization
and Ayres Associates for the Evers Boulevard Rehabilitation 35% Design Plan (MPO Planning funds).
Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $103,044.00, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Brief
comments followed on the need for the street and drainage improvements; potential additional 1% sales
tax option to assist with funding street projects, and concern with supporting the use of MPO funds.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Luna
voting “no”. (#6212)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Municipal Court, and Justice Systems, Inc. for Full
Court Enterprise sof tware, maintenanc e and suppor t, including CitePay USA service s, for a
comprehensive case management system (Impact Assistance Fund).   Motion (p er Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $132,308.00). (#6213)
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
shelter services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $26,666.66). (#6214) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
control services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $15,416.66). (#6215)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School District
No. 1 for School Resource Officers, for the 2014 - 2015 school year -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Recco, Inc., 
d/b/a/ Five-R Company, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Construction Manager At Risk (CMAR) Services
for the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Conservatory Expansion and Renovation Project (1% Specific
Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide services
as described in the Older Americans Act of 1965 as amended -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness Center, I nc., Alcohol Receiving
Center, to provide mental health and substance abuse services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 5930 between the City of Cheyenne and KONE, Inc., to add
the Depot Plaza and Fire Training Facility hydraulic elevators to the master services contract.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5930)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5927 be tween the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and AVI, PC for design and engineering services on Polk Avenue greenway
segment ( 1% Spe cific Purp ose S ales &  Us e Ta x & Wy oming B usiness C ouncil Co mmunity
Enhancement grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $14,000.00). (#5927)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Co ntract No. 6115 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, for interior demolition for the Cheyenne Public Safety Center Project
(1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
Consideration of Bid #R-3-15 for the sale of surplus property described as Lots 1 & 2, Block
15, Roberts Place, an addition to the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (generally located
at the southwest corner O'Neil Avenue and 5th Street).  M r. Shanor declared a conflict of interest
(adjacent personal property interest) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Brown moved to accept the
bid from Holy Temple Church of God in Christ of Cheyenne in the amount of $27,100.00 plus $400.00
reimbursement to the City for the property appraisal cost, for a total amount of $27,500.00, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, provided history on how the City acquired
the property, noting the governing body previously declared the property as surplus by  resolution.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-1-15 for furnishing one new 2014 - 2015 aerial device for the City of
Cheyenne, T raffic Division (2011 - 2014 1%  Sales Tax).  Motion (per Co nsent Agenda) car ried
(accepted bid from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $100,228.00).
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-29-14 for furnishing 96 new mobile tablets with active docking and
electronics for the City of Cheyenne, Police Department (Police Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (a ccepted bid from Brite C omputers, Victor, N ew Yor k, in an amount not to exceed
$420,000.00).
[CA] Consideration of B id  #R-28-14 for f urnishing 900 95- gallon and 700 65-g allon automated
refuse carts for the Public Works Department, Sanitation Division (Impact Assistance fund, Solid Waste
Recycle fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bids from Otto Environmental Systems,
Charlotte, North Carolina, in an amount not to exceed $69,414.00, and Rehrig Pacific of Los Angeles,
California, in an amount not to exceed $16,842.00; total amount of $86,256.00). 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-27-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction
Division, and Intermountain Slurry Seal, Inc., Salt Lake City, Utah, for Fiscal Year 2014 Slurry Seal
Project (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (amount not to ex ceed
$587,550.00). (#6216)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-30-14 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction
Division, a nd Simo n Co ntractors, Che yenne, Wy oming, f or the  F iscal Y ear 2 014 Co mmunity
Development Block Grant S idewalk Area Benefit Project (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax, Com munity
Development Block Grants - 1% Sidewalk).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (Accepted bid from
Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $125,162.00).  (#6217) 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-27-14 for furnishing two new cab and chassis units with 40 yard front
loader refuse collection bodies for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management
Equipment Lease) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-4-15 for furnishing one new 2014-2015 twin screw diesel-powered cab
and chassis for the City  of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (I nsurance and Miscellaneous Claims) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-6-15 for furnishing Police vehicles for the City of Cheyenne, Police
Department (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-1-15 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue
Department, and Richardson Construction, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Fire and Rescue/Police
Department Storage Building Project (Impact Assistance fund) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-2-15  for a  contra ct betwe en the City  of Chey enne, E ngineering
Department, and Kolbe Striping, Inc., Castle Rock, Colorado, for 2014 City of Cheyenne Pavement
Markings Project (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Re-Appointment of Ronnald J. Jeffrey, to the Laramie County Juvenile Services Joint Powers
Board.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the g overning body with the except ion of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointment).
[CA] Annual Report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements made at the Airport Golf
Course as required by Lease Agreement -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 11, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions
required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist  for a portion of Tra cts 245, 246, 247 and 248, Sunny side
Addition, 6th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of
Hayes Avenue and US Highway 30 to be known as Carter Cottages). 
Under other business, Ms. Williams questioned how many City staff have specialized training
or hold ce rtifications to perform certain types of spe cialized services for the City  instead of hiring
outside consultants and companies to provide these services.  Mayor Kaysen, indicating that due to the
broad nature of the inquiry topic, offered to meet with Ms. Williams to further discuss the topic.
Ms. Broyles commented on the bond schedule in conjunction with discussion held previously
during the meeting (refer to minutes section on the proposed ordinance involving an amendment to
Chapter 5.12 (re: TIPS alcohol server training time frame).
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 7:47 p.m.
 
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 August 11, 2014