MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-08-11 | CLIP_ID: 440 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 440

    RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 August 11, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - M r. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms.
Williams.  Absent: Mr. Allen and Mr. Cook.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff,
City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received. Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.).  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on July 28, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez and Mr. Brown each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Radio Station KYOY-FM and Ameri-Tech HVAC Services respectively) and vacated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by
Ms. Williams.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in
Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez returned to
Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to det ermine whether c ompliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a portion of Tr acts 245, 246, 247 and 248,
Sunnyside Addition, 6th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the
intersection of Hayes Avenue and US Highway 30) to be known as Carter Cottages.  Logan Graves,
Planning and Development, stated the proposed annexation is pursuant to a petition for annexation
submitted by the property owner, Mousa Fino, through Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for the applicant,
and that requirements and compliance of annexation conditions contained in state statutes have been
met.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor
Kaysen closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom A R A gricultural Re sidential to  CB  Co mmunity
Business for Lots 1, 5 through 8, Block 2, all of Blocks 3 and 4, Countryside Addition and a portion
of the NE¼ of Section 26, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as US 30
Business Plaza (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of US Highway 30 and Whitney
Road).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final
reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present. (#4036)
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in
the north 102 feet of Tracts 323 and 324, Sunnyside Addition, 7th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located south of and adjacent to Rock Springs Street, east of and adjacent to Pierce Avenue, and
west of and adjacent to Polk Avenue) to be known as the Diamond Estates 5th Filing Annexation.
Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  M otion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4037)
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the South ½ of Tracts 105 and
106, Sunnyside Addition, Fourth Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner
of the interse ction of Monroe  Avenue  and Charle s Street), to be know n as the 4204 Charles
Annexation.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the  governing body present. (#4038)
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code
(UDC) as initiated from the 2014 Annual Review, to increase point values for larger evergreen trees,
deciduous trees, and shrub plantings, and reduce point values for large expanses of turf grass for all
sites throughout the City requiring landscape improvements.  Mr. Shanor moved to appr ove on
second reading, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Discussion topi cs included: Concern with reducing
landscaping requirements for commercial properties and first impression of an attractive community
by prospective businesses; incentivizing placement of larger trees which will retain beautification
and aesthetic efforts; landscaping costs to business owners; redistribution of point values, and new
construction landscaping challenges current provisions pose for unique building projects (ex: school
facilities).  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from County MR Medium Density Residential to MR-2 Medium
Density Residential - Developing for the West 178’ of the North 102’ of Tract 324, Tract A (West
120’ of the North 102’ of Tract 323 and all of the North 102’ of Tract 324 except the West 178’) and
Tract B (all of the North 102’ of Tract 323 except the West 120’), Sunnyside Addition, 7th Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Diamond Estates, 5th Filing (replat in process) (located at the
southeast corner of the intersection of Rock Springs Street and Pierce Avenue) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, portions of tract 245, 246, 247
and 248, Sunnyside Addition, 6th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner
of the intersection of Hayes Avenue and US Highway 30) -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for US 30
Business Plaza, a replat of Lots 1, 5 thru 8, Block 2, all of Blocks 3 and 4, Countryside Addition, and
a portion of the NE¼ of Section 26, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
southwest corner of the intersection of US Highway 30 and Whitney Road).  Mr. Shanor moved to
adopt with staff conditions #1 and 3, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present. (#5608)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3)  Application to the State L oan and I nvestment Board for the Transfer Station
Upgrade Phase II.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5609)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving Fund for an amount
not to exceed $1,878,825 for Fiscal Year 2015 Distribution System Rehabilitations and authorizing
the Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application
and all related loan documents.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5610)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment Board for a L oan from the Wy oming Drinking Water State Revolving F und for a n
amount not to exceed $589,800 for the RL Sherard Powdered Activated Carbon Feed System Project
and Authorizing the Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to
execute the a pplication and all related loan docume nts.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5611)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropr iating the Fiscal Year 2015 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on
County projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for 2015 - 2016 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant funding -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA]  RES OLUTION - Certifying tha t th e Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Che yenne is i n
agreement on two projects to be submitted by the Town of Albin to the State Loan and Investment
Board for 2013 - 2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor – Mr. Brown). 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No. 1 for School Resource Officers, for the 2014 - 2015 school year.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (revenue to the City $453,732.01). (#6218) 
[CA] Agreement between City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Recco, Inc.,
d/b/a/ Five-R Company, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Construction Manager At Risk (CMAR) Services
for the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Conservatory Expansion and Renovation Project (1% Specific
Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6219)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide services
as described in the Older Americans Act of 1965 as amended.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $45,000.00). (#6220) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness Center, Inc., Alcohol Receiving
Center, to provide mental health and substance abuse services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $85,000.00). (#6221)
[CA]  Software License Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Brazos
Technology, College Station, Texas, for electronic citation software and maintenance services (e-
citation grant, 1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Ashley McInelly, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Brenda Johnson, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Leslie Burch, for crime victim assistance ser vices (Victim Services grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6115 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI
Constructors of Wy oming, LLC, for in terior demolition for the Che yenne Public Safe ty Center
Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6115)  
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 5970 be tween the Wyoming Department of
Transportation and the City of Cheyenne for the West Lincolnway Project (Wyoming Department
of Transportation funding) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Consideration of Bid #R-27-14 for furnishing two new cab and chassis units with 40 yard
front loader refuse collection bodies for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste
Management Equipment Lease).  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works, explained the two units will be the
first step in automating commercial garbage collections; provided information on safety and reduced
costs of collection; reviewed bids submitted, which include trade-ins, and staff’s bid review process,
and stated staff supports the bid that most closely meets the needs of the City as identified in the bid
specifications.  Ernie Kois, Kois Brothers Equipment Company, submitted (on file with City Clerk’s
office) and discussed information in support of the bid submitted by Peterbilt of Wyoming with a
Heil manufactured body provided by Kois Brothers; reviewed similar equipment and body makes
utilized b y the  City  of  Gr and Junc tion, Col orado, a nd dis cussed it ems c ontained in the b id
specifications (i.e. overall height, length and steel composition) that were not met by the Heil product
and re asons fo r r equesting the  bid  wi th the He il b ody be  c onsidered.  Pa ul B utcher, L aBrie
Enviroquip Group, and Doug King and Dave King, Ameri-Tech Equipment Company, spoke in
support of the bid submitted by Peterbilt of Wyoming with a LaBrie manufactured body provided
by Am eri-Tech E quipment, no ting the bid co mplied w ith a ll o f t he City ’s re quested b id
specifications and advising that money had been expended in order  to meet the spec ifications as
written (spreadsheet showing costs submitted (on file with City Clerk’s office) by Doug King during
his c omments).  Sa ra Va squez, Pu rchasing Di vision, p rovided a  br ief b ackground o n th e bid
issuance, advertising, non-mandatory pre-bid meeting pro cess and bid amendment informa tion
issued affiliated with the bid.  Sh e explained minimum specifications are co ntained in the bid
document and pote ntial bidders have  a ti me fra me in which to re view and a dvise if there  are
concerns or questions concerning the minimum specifications.  Mr. Brown reported there was no
recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved to accept the bid from
Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, [City Clerk’s note: with the LaBrie body provided by Ameri-Tech
Equipment Compa ny) per the re commendation of City  staff, in a n amount not to ex ceed
$496,184.00, including trade-ins, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Discussion topics included the integrity
of the  bid  pr ocess th rough a dherence to b id s pecifications; w arranty/guarantee of  the  un its;
lease/purchase arrangements; review of bids and recommendation by staff; training to be received
and affiliated cost, and storage  site of the units.  Vicki Nemec ek provided information on the
warranty time frame; lease/purchase financial arrangements to acquire the units as soon as they are
available; staff membe rs who re viewed a nd evalua ted bids rec eived, a nd type of tra ining a nd
affiliated costs, and advised the units will be stored at the Transfer Station.  During discussion on
the warranty topic, Mr. Kois and Mr. Doug King confirmed that their respective company will
comply with the warranty requirement.  Discussion continued on bid specifications and maintaining
integrity of the bid proc ess.  Upon inqu iry by Mayor Kaysen to members of  the governing body
present and there being no objection voiced, Mayor Kaysen queried Ms. Vasquez as to whether her
lack of presence at the pre- bid meeting, as mentioned during  Mr. Kois’ c omments, affected the
bidding procedure.  Ms. Vasquez responded that her absence bears no weight on the bid process.
Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek provided additional information on the lease/purchase arrangements
that will involve assessment of interest; mechanic training to be received and warranty time frame,
and advised staff w ill be looking at se tting up a de preciation fund in the future  for pur chases
pursuant to information contained in the recent rate study.  It was noted that historically the City has
entered into lease/purchasing agreements for Sanitation equipment as the cost is such that the City
hasn’t had the money to purchase the items outright.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-4-15 for furnishing one new 2014 - 2015 twin screw diesel-powered
cab and chassis for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Insurance and Miscellaneous Claims).
Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (accept bid from Peterbilt of Wy oming, Cheyenne, in a n
amount not to exceed $138,873.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-6-15 for furnishing Police vehicles for the City of Cheyenne, Police
Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from
Spradley Bar Motors, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $252,815.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-1-15 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue
Department, and Richardson Construction, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Fire and Rescue/Police
Department Storage Building Project (Impact Assistance fund).  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda)
carried (amount not to exceed $247,715.00). (#6222)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-2-15 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Kolbe Striping, Inc., Castle Rock, Colorado, for 2014 City of Cheyenne Pavement
Markings Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $104,500.00). (#6223)
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-9-15 for f urnishing bulk ice control product t o the City  of
Cheyenne, Public Works Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-5-15 for furnishing two new 2014 - 2015 diesel-powered 3-wheeled
street sweepers with belt conveyor for the City of Cheyenne, Street and Alley  Division (2007-2011
and 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Red Lobster Hospitality
LLC d/b/a Red Lobster #0639, 1923 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming  (License currently held
by GMRI, Inc. d/b/a Red Lobster #0639, 1923 Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.
[CA] Annual Report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements made at the Airport
Golf Course as required by Lease Agreement.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (acknowledge
receipt).
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Kevin R. Williams to the International Fire
Code Board of Appeals, to be confirmed August 25, 2014. 
Announcement was made  of the Re- Appointments of Tere nce Roker, Philip Griggs, and
Mary (Aragon) Connor, to the Public Transit Advisory Board, to be confirmed August 25, 2014. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 25, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Cham bers, 2101 O’Neil Ave nue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to re ceive public input on an
application requesting the establishment of a Residential Critical Traffic and Parking Area in the
vicinity of the Cheyenne Regional Medical Center.
Under other business:
Rona Bartos commented briefly in support of the petition submitt ed by her and neighbors
requesting the critical parking area near the hospital.  Mayor Kaysen explained that the previous item
on the agenda (refer to minutes above) pertained to the application/petition request and reiterated that
a Public Hearing on the request would be held August 25, 2014 at 6:00 p.m.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning bod y, the meeting wa s
officially adjourned at 6:55 p.m.
 
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 August 18, 2014 