MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-08-25 | CLIP_ID: 442 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 442

     RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 August 25, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Allen moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Mayor Kaysen noted that two Consent
Agenda items were referrals to Committee of the Whole, which would meet September 3, 2014 at
6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 11, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Shanor  moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive public input on an application requesting
the establishment of a Residential Critical Traffic and Parking Area in the vicinity of the Cheyenne
Regional Me dical Ce nter.  Ma rk Es cobedo, T raffic En gineer, a dvised th e pu blic hearing is i n
conjunction with the application that had been submitted and that application requirements had been
met per City Code.  Rona Bartos reviewed reasons for the application being submitted and read a
statement concerning issues residents in t he neighborhood are experiencing due to the congested
parking conditions around the hospital (medic al center) and use of on- street parking spaces by
hospital employees, visitors and vendors.  Her comments included the following topics: Measures
the hospital has taken to assist with relief to the neighborhood; debris being deposited on private
properties; blockage of drive-ways and unavailable parking for residents, visitors, and home delivery
services; concern that a 2-hour parking limit as provided under establishment of a critical traffic and
parking area will not alleviate the overall parking situation, and enforcement concerns.  Ms. Bartos
recommended that residential parking through a permitting process be implemented without the 2-
hour restriction.  Discussion included enforcement of the area for compliance, particularly after work
hours and on weekends; residential permit parking relative to the establishment of a critical traffic
and parking area and the current 2-hour parking limit time frame per City Code, and potential future
ordinance cha nge re garding the time fra me.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Escobe do provided g eneral
information on signage, monitoring and enforcement.  Pursuant to inquiry concerning the retroactive
effect that a future ordinance changing the 2-hour time frame would have on the current application
if approved under current 2-hour parking limit provisions, Dan White, Cit y Attorney, responded
research would need to be  conducted on the t opic.  Ms. Will iams submitted a r esolution to Mr.
White for legal review.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having
been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the application to Pub lic S ervices
Committee.
ORDINANCE - Amending various sections of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code
(UDC) as initiated from the 2014 Annual Review, to increase point values for larger evergreen trees,
deciduous trees, and shrub plantings, and reduce point values for large expanses of turf grass for all
sites throughout the City  requiring landscape improvements.  J ean Vetter, High Plains De sign,
commented in favor of the or dinance chang e, noting  the amendme nt addre sses the quality  of
landscaping.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and
final reading, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Motion carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body. (#4039)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from County MR Medium Density Residential to MR-2 Medium
Density Residential - Developing for the West 178’ of the North 102’ of Tract 324, Tract A (West
120’ of the North 102’ of Tract 323 and all of the North 102’ of Tract 324 except the West 178’) and
Tract B (all of the North 102’ of Tract 323 except the West 120’), Sunnyside Addition, 7th Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Diamond Estates, 5  Filing (Replat in process) (located at theth
southeast corner of the intersection of Rock Springs Street and Pierce Avenue).  Mr. Shanor moved
to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the  governing body.
 
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, portions of tracts 245, 246,
247 and 248, Sunnyside Addition, 6  Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwestth
corner of the intersection of Hayes Avenue and US Highway 30).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5612)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on
County projects to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board for 2015 - 2016 Countywide
Consensus Block Grant funding.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5613) 
[CA]  RES OLUTION - C ertifying tha t th e Go verning B ody of t he City of Che yenne is i n
agreement on two projects to be submitted by the Town of Albin to the State Loan and Investment
Board for 2013 - 2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5614)
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Diamond
Estates, 5th Filing, a replat of the West 178’ of the North 102’ of Tract 324, Tract A (West 120’ of
the North 102’ of Tract 323 and all of the North 102’ of Tract 324 except the West 178’) and Tract
B (all o f t he N orth 102’ of T ract 3 23 ex cept t he W est 1 20’), S unnyside Addition, 7 th Fi ling,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Rock Springs Street and
Pierce Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with
the Microsoft Corporation, Lot 3, Block 1, North Range Business Park, 5  Filing, Laramie County,th
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting the West Edge Visionary Blueprint as a working document and
guide to the community ’s goals of managing stormwater in the L ower Capitol Basin, mitiga ting
brownfields, creating meaningful public spaces, and facilitating private investment in the near west
side of downtown Cheyenne -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Allen, Mr.
Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mayor  Kaysen, Mr. Luna,  Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and
Ms. Williams).
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Building Cheyenne’s f uture b y r eaffirming th e Ci ty o f Cheyenne’s
commitment to ethical principles and e fficiency in gove rnment -- referred to Commit tee of the
Whole (sponsors -- Mr. Allen and Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION -  T o in crease e conomic d evelopment b y r eorganizing th e Planning and
Development Offices as independent entities -- referred to Committee of the Whole  (sponsors -- Mr.
Allen and Mr. Shanor).
[CA]  Software License Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Brazos
Technology, College Station, Texas, for electronic citation software and maintenance services (e-
citation grant, 1% Specific Purpose  Sales and Use  Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried
(amount not to exceed $34,721.50). (#6229) 
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Ashley McInelly, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $27,183.24). (#6230)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Brenda Johnson, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $34,223.04). (#6231)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Leslie Burch, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $46,005.24). (#6232)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Al ternatives, and Laramie
County, Wyoming, for juvenile probation services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County
Community Partnership, Inc., for Suicide Prevention Prog ram Services at Johnson and Carey  Jr.
High Schools in conjunction  with the Wyoming Department of Education 21  Century Learningst
Centers ACCISS Program -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract betwe en the C ity of Chey enne, O ffice of Youth Alterna tives, and Wy oming
Department of Family Services, regarding the provision of Youth Alternatives Prevention Program
services -- referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Cont ract No. 5970 between the Wyoming Department of
Transportation and the City of Cheyenne for the West Lincolnway Project (Wyoming Department
of Transportation funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5970)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-9-15 f or f urnishing b ulk ic e c ontrol p roduct t o th e Ci ty of
Cheyenne, Public Works Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (accepted bid from Desert Mountain Corporation, Riverton, Wyoming - amount not to exceed
$117,750.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-5-15 for furnishing two new 2014 - 2015 diesel-powered 3-wheeled
street sweepers with belt conveyor for the City of Cheyenne, Street and Alley  Division (2007-2011
and 2011-2014 1%  Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (accepted bid fr om Titan
Machinery, Casper, Wyoming - amount not to exceed $351,772.00 including trade-ins and add on
options).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-7-15 for furnishing four new vehicles for the City of Cheyenne,
Parks and Recreation Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-3-15 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction
Division, and CBJ Asphalt and Concrete Contractors, LLC, Phoenix, Arizona, for Fiscal Year 2015
Crack Seal project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
Appointment of Kevin R. Williams to the International Fire Code Board of Appeals.  Ms.
Williams moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).
Re-Appointments of Terence Roker, Philip Griggs and  Mary (Aragon) Connor, to the Public
Transit Advisory Board.  Ms. Williams moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not
vote (Mayoral appointment).
Announcement was made that due to the Labor Day Holiday on Monday, September 1, 2014,
regularly sche duled City Council Comm ittee Mee tings will instead be he ld in the Municipal
Building, Room 122, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee
will meet Tuesday, September 2, 2014 a t 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet
Wednesday, September 3, 2014 at Noon.
Under other business, Tom Lindsey, reviewed past history involving the vacant downtown
“hole” and expressed his opinion on the need for re-development of the site.  He proposed a multi-
purpose building with an underground parking garage be built on the property, and offered his
suggestions on various types of businesses and uses that could be housed in the building, such as a
restaurant, tourism services, residential units and a roof-top open social space area.  He stated his
belief that a multi-purpose building would generate revenue.
There being  no furth er business t o come be fore the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:46 p.m.
 
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 September 2, 2014 