MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-09-08 | CLIP_ID: 444 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 444

     RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 September 8, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 25, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Shanor each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and First Judicial District Attorney’s Office respectively)
and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. B rown and Mr. Shanor
returned to Council Chambers. 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from County MR Medium Density Residential to MR-2 Medium
Density Residential - Developing for the West 178’ of the North 102’ of Tract 324, Tract A (West
120’ of the North 102’ of Tract 323 and all of the North 102’ of Tract 324 except the West 178’) and
Tract B (all of the North 102’ of Tract 323 except the West 120’), Sunnyside Addition, 7th Filing,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Diamond Estates, 5th Filing (Replat in process) (located at the
southeast corner of the intersection of Rock Springs Street and Pierce Avenue).  Reporting for Public
Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the  governing body. (#4040)
 
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, portions of tracts 245, 246,
247 and 248, Sunnyside Addition, 6th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwest
corner of the intersection of Hayes Avenue and US Highway 30).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body. (#4041)
ORDINANCE  - Vacating a portion of Alexander Avenue and 13th Street, adjacent to Blocks
444, 445, 452 and 453, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of E. Lincolnway, west
of Dunn Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential-Established to
MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for Lots 7 and 8, Block 509, Original City, Chey enne,
Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of W. 10th Street and Bent Avenue) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Diamond
Estates, 5th Filing, a replat of the West 178’ of the North 102’ of Tract 324, Tract A (West 120’ of
the North 102’ of Tract 323 and all of the North 102’ of Tract 324 except the West 178’) and Tract
B (all of the North 102’ of Tra ct 323 except the West 120’), Sunny side Addition, 7th Filin g,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Rock Springs Street and
Pierce Avenue).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5615)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Outside User Water Sewer Services, by User’s Agreement, with
the Microsoft Corporation, Lot 3, Block 1, North Range Business Park, 5th Filing, Laramie County,
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5616)
 RESOLUTION - Adopting the West Edge Visionary Blueprint as a working document and
guide to the community ’s goals of managing stormwater in the L ower Capitol Basin, mitiga ting
brownfields, creating meaningful public spaces, and facilitating private investment in the near west
side of downtown Cheyenne.  Mr. Shanor moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Shanor
moved to amend by including staff adjustments as indicated on page 2 of the staff summary report
involving the following, seconded by Ms. Broyles: Executive Summary (page 6); 4.5.4 Investment
Supportive En vironment; 4. 4.1 U rban Re newal A uthority; 4. 5.8 ( New St rategy) H istoric
Preservation, and 4.7.1 District Plan.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen confirmed use of sales tax funds
toward the project will be pursuant to the 1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax ballot question
approved by voters.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5617)
  RESOLUTION - Building Cheyenne’s f uture b y r eaffirming th e Ci ty o f Cheyenne’s
commitment to ethical principles and efficiency in government.  Sara Vasquez, President, Cheyenne
Public Employees Association (CPEA), commented in opposition to the resolution, noting that ethics
principles are already in place f or City employees.  Repor ting for Committee of the Whole, Dr.
Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone for two weeks (to
Sept. 22, 2014), seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Discussion included comments in support as well as non-
support of postponement; lack of City Attorney’s approval stamp on the document; existing ethics
code for employees, and City Personnel Rules and Reg ulations, pending revisions and a pproval
procedure pursuant to the Wyoming Administrative Procedure Act (WAPA).  During comments, Dr.
Rinne raised a point of order that comments were not germane to the motion on the floor with Mayor
Kaysen concurring that discussion should pertain to the motion to postpone.  Upon inquiry, Mayor
Kaysen advised if the motion was approved the item would go back to Committee of the Whole for
further review and recommendation and then return to the governing body for action, and confirmed
that the rules and regulations are in the process of being revised and approval of revisions by the
governing body is not required unde r the WAPA.  Mot ion to postpone failed ( due to a tie vote) .
Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr.
Brown, Ms. Br oyles, Mr. C ook, Dr. Rinne and May or Kaysen.  Discussion on the main motion
followed a nd included the f ollowing topics: Curre nt Code of Ethics; int ent of the r esolution;
proposed revisions to the Personnel Rules and Regulations, and awareness of problems the City of
Casper is currently experiencing.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen clarified revisions to the 2008 rules
and regulations edition invol ve compliance areas with feder al, state a nd local laws; ve rified the
City’s Risk Safety Manual was not in the process of being updated, and explained the c urrent
administrative  complaint process that may be utilized by the public.  Upon query to City Council
members by Mayor Kaysen and there being no objection raised, Mayor Kaysen provided additional
information re garding content conta ined in the rules a nd regulations with regar d to retaliatory
behavior and disciplinary steps, and state s tatute provisions on ethics and sta ndards.  F ollowing
further discussion, motion to adopt failed (due to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Luna,
Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no”-- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Dr.
Rinne and Mayor Kaysen. 
RESOLUTION - To inc rease economic development by  reorganizing the Planning and
Development Offices as ind ependent entities. Speaking in support of the re solution were:  Joe
Patterson, Patterson Construction and President, Southeast Wyoming Home Builders Association;
Noel Gr iffith, local arch itect; Tammy Gra nt, President, Chey enne Re altors Association; L inda
Weppner, business owner; B ill Edwa rds, Edwards Construction; F rank Cole, United W estern
Corporation; Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group; John Volk, l ocal developer; Jim Weaver,
local realtor; John Mason, business owner; Dale Steenbergen, Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, and
Shawn Ajdari, local developer.  Topics discussed included the following: Expediting development
procedures and workflow; easier and more efficient development processes; designating staff to
facilitate and navigate customers through development procedures; separation of offices to provide
consistency and ac countability; meeting  curr ent re sidential housi ng needs in a timely  manner ;
suggestion of also separating the Building Safety functions into its own department entity; “one stop
shop” concept for customers a nd meaning  of the ter m; differe nces be tween pla nning a nd
development functions; production performance measures; time involved in staff and other agencies’
review process; costs t o developers; use of technology and software; small business concerns;
Chamber of Commerce members’ support (Mr. Steenbergen submitted documentation of members’
signatures in favor of the resolution -- on file with City Clerk’s office); difference between economic
activity vs. development; interested parties involvement in development process and review and
streamlining of same, and examples of community business developments and time frames involved
in reviewing, inspecting and approving applications.  Jan Nelson-Schroll expressed her opinion that
communication and participation by residential neighborhoods should occur relative to proposed
developments or re-developments affecting their areas.  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.
Shanor.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by adding the following sentence at the end of Section (5)
under the Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved clause, seconded by Ms. Williams: “The Council also
hereby recommends that immediately after the adoption of this resolution the Mayor seek input from
the Council and interested stakeholders, including but not limited to, the Greater Cheyenne Chamber
of Commerce, the Southeast Wy oming Homebuilders Association, and the Chey enne Board of
Realtors, as to how to best ef fectuate the intent of this re solution.”  Speaking  in favor of  the
amendment were: Mr. Steenbergen, Mr. Edwards and Ms. Nelson-Schroll.  During discussion by
governing body members, it was confirmed that intent of the wording in Section (5), current as well
as the proposed amendment, was to also include City staff participation relative to garnering input
and attending related meetings, and comments in support as well as non-support of the amendment
were made.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mr. B rown voting “no.”  Discussion followed on the  main motion as amended a nd
included the f ollowing topics: Uncertainty whether “splitting” the  offices would result in better
efficiency; concept of a “one stop shop”; addressing concerns legislatively vs. administratively;
positive comments about current planning and development City staff, and comment that wording
of the approved amendment may be all that was needed vs. the resolution.  During discussion and
upon inquiry regarding how City staff and the administration felt about the proposed organizational
splitting of the offices, Mayor Kaysen provided information on several administrative operational
and procedural changes that have occurred over the past few years as well as those currently being
worked upon; noted that staff currently provides “facilitator” assistance for customers; stated that
compliance with federal, state and local codes must be met; ac knowledged procedures should be
reviewed, and indicated that it is unknown whether separating the offices will work.  Ms. Broyles,
seconded by Mr. Cook, moved to amend by  revising the wording in Section (3) under the Now,
Therefore, Be It Resolved clause to read as follows: “The Development Office will employ and/or
appoint an advocate for private citizens to assist with the City’s regulatory process in order to speed
project approval; and ...”.  Joe Gallagher expressed his belief that the Development office needs a
facilitator, not an advocate.  Comments followed in support as well as non-support of the proposed
amendment.  Discussion topics included:  Lack of timeliness of development processes affecting
contractors, developers and residents; micro-managing; concerns that have been expressed about
application reviews and inspec tions resulting in additional re quirements, and customer  service.
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of
Mr. Brown voting “no.”  Discussion continued on the main motion as twice amended and included
references to previous comments; consistency and transparency; procedural challenges; facilitating
community development; support for  new de velopment director staff position as an appointee;
micro-managing, and governing body’s statutory authority to deal with departments and personnel.
Main motion as twice ame nded carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr.
Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown and
Dr. Rinne. (#5618)
Following a brief recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:40 p.m. 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budg et of the Cit y of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W .S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Del-Van
Storage Park, being a  replat of all of Goodwater Addition, Goodwater Drive, and Water Blue Lane
and a portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 26, T.14N., R.66W., 6th
P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of a nd adjacent to Dell Rang e Boulevard, east of a nd
adjacent to Van Buren Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Thomas Heights, a replat of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Smithson View; Tracts 26,
27, a portion of Tracts 1 and 7, Dell Range Addition, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
between Ridge Road and Colleg e Drive, south of Su mmit Drive) -- r eferred to Publi c Services
Committee. 
[CA] Agreement be tween the  C ity o f C heyenne, O ffice o f Y outh A lternatives, a nd Laramie
County, Wyoming, for juvenile probation services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6236)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County
Community Partnership, Inc., for Suicide Prevention Prog ram Services at Johnson and Carey  Jr.
High Schools in conjunction with the W yoming Department of Education 21  Century Learningst
Centers ACCISS Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6237)
[CA] Contract b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne, O ffice o f Y outh A lternatives, a nd Wy oming
Department of Family Services, regarding the provision of Youth Alternatives Prevention Program
services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6238)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Wyoming Department of
Transportation for Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program Fiscal Year 2015 (Wyoming Department
of Transportation grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Right-of-Way Encroachment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WILLCO IX
Development, LLLP, to construct a loading and unloading lane and island on Pioneer Avenue in
front of the future Hilton Garden Inn -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Project Development and Administration Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the
Children’s Museum of Cheyenne, for development of a Children’s Museum -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 6115 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, establishing the Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP) for the
Cheyenne Public Safety Center Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-7-15 for furnishing four new vehicles for the City of Cheyenne,
Parks and Recreation Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  M otion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (accepted bids from Halladay Motors, Cheyenne, for: 2015 GMC 15-passenger van in the
amount of $26,867.00, 2015 GMC 3/4 ton truck with snow plow in the amount of $35,798.00, 2015
GMC 3/4 ton truck in the amount  of  $28,442.00; and from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, for:
2015 Ford F150 in the amount of $25,495.00; grand total bid amount $116,602.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-3-15 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction
Division, and CBJ Asphalt and Concrete Contractors, LLC, Phoenix, Arizona, for Fiscal Year 2015
Crack Seal project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
bid in the amount of $185,500.00). (#6239)
[CA] Authorization of single source quote from Dant Clayton Corporation, Parker, Colorado, for
purchase of  bleac hers a t Powers B aseball Field, Parks and Re creation Depa rtment (Specia l
Distribution funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Authorization of sing le source  quote from Aqua Climb/Pyramide U SA, I nc., F rederick,
Maryland, for a  purcha se ag reement to acquire  a Glac ier Climb W all, Parks and Rec reation
Department, Chey enne A quatic Center  (Recr eation Prog ram funds)  -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee. 
Application requesting the establishment of a Residential Critical Traffic and Parking Area
in the vicinity of the Cheyenne Regional Medical Center.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Shanor moved to postpone for two weeks (to Sept. 22, 2014).  Motion to postpone
died due to the lack of a second to the motion.  Comments followed in support of the application to
offer the neighborhood relief from parking congestion conditions.  Main motion carried.  V oting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Request to approve change of location of additional dispensing room for City of Cheyenne
resort liquor licensee, The Plains Hotel Co., LLC d/b/a The Plains Hotel, located a t 1600 Central
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee.
There being no further business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:42 p.m.
 
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 September 19, 2014