MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-09-22 | CLIP_ID: 447 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 447

     RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 September 22, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne (arriving at 6:04
p.m.), Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Al so present: Kristy Anderson, Deputy City
Clerk; Lois Huff, City  Treasurer, and Da n White, City Attorney.  The pledg e of a llegiance was
recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.) Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Ms. Broyles and Ms. Williams, Agenda Item #13(c) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Ms.
Broyles moved to approve remaining consent agenda items, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 8, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry , Lois Huff, City Treasurer; Mayor
Kaysen; Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, and Jim Elias, Public Works Director, provided
information relative to the following vouchers:  JM Rodent Control; Brant Audiology, LLC; Harris
Enterprise Resource Planning; Professional Financ; Qian Yaling, and Ron Little Valley Wholesale
Nursery. Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  F ollowing a nnouncement o f t he v ote, M r. B rown r eturned t o C ouncil C hambers.
Following approval of vouchers, Mayor Kaysen noted for those present in the audience, Agenda Item
#12(a), Preliminary Plat for Thomas Heights, would have no further discussion on it at the meeting
since it was approved on the Consent Agenda.
ORDINANCE  - Vacating a portion of Alexander Avenue and 13th Street, adjacent to Blocks
444, 445, 452 and 453, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of E. Lincolnway, west
of Dunn Avenue). Reporting for Public Service s Committee, Mr. Shanor  moved to approve  on
second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” -- all members of the
governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential-Established to
MUB Mixed-Use B usiness Emphasis for L ots 7 and 8, Bloc k 509, Original Cit y, Chey enne,
Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of W. 10th Street and Bent Avenue).
Mr. S hanor m oved t o a pprove o n s econd r eading, s econded b y M s. W illiams.  U pon i nquiry,
Brandon Cammarata, Planning and Development Director, reviewed the proposed zone change area
and explained there  are  mix ed uses in the a rea, including r esidential. He  further  advised that
notification to residents in the area was provided.  Upon inquiry, Gary Grigsby, Western R&D, agent
for applicant, clarified there isn’t a curre nt plan to erect a  metal building.  He  advised with the
exception of one residential property, the entire block is zoned MUB, therefore, the applicant felt
it was best for this property to also be zoned MUB.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body. 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5619)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Del-Van
Storage Park, being a  replat of all of Goodwater Addition, Goodwater Drive, and Water Blue Lane
and a portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 26, T.14N., R.66W., 6th
P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of an d adjacent to Dell Rang e Boulevard, east of a nd
adjacent to Van B uren A venue).  Mr. Shanor moved to a dopt with staff re commendation #1,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Jim Flesher, Planning and Development Office, reviewed the
recommendation and advised it was in regard to the drainage stormwater easement and revising the
stormwater detention study.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#5620)
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne supports the
application of the  Town of B urns for $42,000 in State L oan and Investment Board 2015 - 2016
Countywide Consensus B lock Grant funds to purchase  a truc k for the B urns Maintena nce
Department -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Thomas Heights, a replat of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Smithson View; Tracts 26,
27, a portion of Tracts 1 and 7, Dell Range Addition, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
between Ridge Road and College Drive, south of Summit Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Wyoming Department of
Transportation for Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program Fiscal Year 2015 (Wyoming Department
of Transportation grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6240)
[CA] Right-of-Way Encroachment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WILLCO IX
Development, LLLP, to construct a loading and unloading lane and island on Pioneer Avenue in
front of the future Hilton Garden Inn.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6241) 
Project Development and Administration Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the
Children’s Museum of Cheyenne, for development of a Children’s Museum. Tom Lindsey, spoke
in opposition to the agreement and expressed concerns regarding potential costs to taxpayers. Amy
Surdam, President, Board of Directors, Children’s Museum, spoke in fa vor of the agreement and
explained what the museum project will entail, its mission and the positive impact it will have on
the City.  Jim Weaver, #1 Properties, agent for Outback Investments, owner of the Hynds Building,
provided a  handout (on file w ith Ci ty Clerk’s Of fice) and state d that they  believe the cur rent
agreement poses a risk to the Hynds Building owners utilizing the corridor, and requested a possible
postponement to address a use agreement for the corridor. Discussion continued on negotiations for
use of the corridor.  Additional individuals who commented were:  Meredith Asay, member of Board
of Directors of Children’s Museum; Buck Holmes, and Hans Seitz, Pres., Downtown Development
Authority. Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded b y Mr.
Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Surdam explained that they have been in contact with local architects
who have developed conceptual drawings, and have reviewed the planned space of the museum,
including HVAC and elevators located on east side of the building that abuts the Hynds Building.
Mr. Brown moved to postpone f or 2 weeks (to October 13, 2014).  Du e to lack of a se cond, the
motion to postpone died.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#6242)
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and
Brian Chalstrom, d/b/a Putt Hutt , for pr emises used a s a miniature g olf course in L ions Park --
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and I.T. Refresh, Ft. Collins, Colorado, for electronic
recycling services (Solid Waste Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 6115 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI
Constructors of Wy oming, L LC, establishing the G uaranteed Ma ximum Price (GMP) for  the
Cheyenne Public Safe ty Center Projec t (1% Specif ic Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x).  Mot ion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6115)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6151 be tween the  City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and Short Elliott  Hendrickson, Inc., for the 19th Street Rehabil itation
Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, BOPU Funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6190 between the City of Cheyenne and Deep
Green Energy, LLC, for conditions requiring additional work in the George Cox and Jack R. Spiker
parking facilities (Impact Assistance funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Authorization of single source quote from Dant Clayton Corporation, Parker, Colorado, for
purchase of blea chers at Powers B aseball Field, Parks and Rec reation Depar tment (Special
Distribution funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted in the amount of $73,641.00).
[CA] Authorization of single sour ce quote  from AquaClimb/Pyramide U SA, I nc., F rederick,
Maryland, for a  purcha se ag reement to acquire  a Glac ier Climb W all, Parks and Rec reation
Department, Cheyenne Aquatic Center (Recreation Program funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (accepted in an amount not to exceed $37,865.00).  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-5-15 for a contract for the HR Ranch Road Greenway Gap project
between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (Development Impact Funds - Parks Infrastructure) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Request to approve change of location of additional dispensing room for City of Cheyenne
resort liquor licensee, The Plains Hotel Co., LLC d/b/a The Plains Hotel, located a t 1600 Central
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Announcement was made that the Laramie County Republican Party will be sponsoring a
Calcutta to be held Friday, October 10, 2014 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Old West Museum, 4610
Carey Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the Red State Rendezvous (Proceeds to
benefit Laramie County Republican Party).
Under Other Business:
Major Dorr spoke about development in different areas of Cheyenne and expressed concerns
regarding the need for a grocery store in West Cheyenne.  Upon inquiry, Matt Ashby, Planning and
Development Director, explained that with the West Edge development project, prospects for any
type of a grocery store would be on a smaller scale. 
Ms. Williams moved to reconsider the vote taken at the Sept. 8, 2014 City Council meeting
for an “Application requesting the establishment of a Residential Critical Traffic and Parking Area
in the vicinity of the Cheyenne Regional Medical Center,” seconded by Mr. Allen.  It was advised
the purpose of the motion to reconsider was to amend the application to extend the area’s boundaries
as recommended by the City Traffic Engineer.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body.  Mayor Kaysen advised the main motion to approve the Residential Critical Traffic
and Parking Area was now back before the governing body.  Deputy City Clerk Kristy Anderson read
the entitlement into the record as follows: “Application requesting the establishment of a Residential
Critical Traffic and Parking Area in the vicinity of the Cheyenne Regional Medical Center.”  Ms.
Williams moved to postpone to Oct. 13, 2014, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to postpone carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Mayor Kaysen announced due to postponement,
the item w ill be  re viewed a t th e ne xt Pub lic Se rvices Co mmittee me eting wh ich w ill be  he ld
Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2014 at noon, Room 122, of the Municipal Building.  
There bein g no further business to come  befor e the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:42 p.m. 
 Submitted by,
 Kristy B. Anderson, CMC
 Deputy City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 3, 2014