MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-10-13 | CLIP_ID: 449 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 449

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
October 13, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n Council C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne (arriving at 6:12
p.m.), Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois
Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 22, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Shanor each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and First Judicial District Attorney’s Office respectively)
and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Allen moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Discussion followed on a vouche r payable to Gregory Allen Crisp for
services involving hosting of the Mayor’s Council for Persons with Disabilities (MCPD) website.
Comments included concerns that MCPD Board members had not approved the services and did not
have a dministrative ed iting r ights to the site, and tha t cer tain content on the we bsite was not
applicable to the MCPD.  Mayor Kaysen provided information relative to the formation and structure
of the MCPD, noting that monies raised by  the MCPD were  being utilized for payment of the
voucher; advised that Mr. Crisp had agreed to provide website services a few years ago when he was
a member of the B oard, and stated he ha d not received anything official from the MCPD Board
indicating Mr. Crisp’s servic es we re be ing disc ontinued.  Ms . Wil liams moved to amend by
removing the voucher for Mr. Crisp from the payables list.  Discussion followed on the time-frame
of services provided relative to the voucher; non-MCPD information on the website, and allowing
time for communication with the MCPD Board prior to acting on the voucher.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers with the
exception of Dr. Rinne “abstaining” (due to his joining the meeting during discussion on the motion
to amend).  Request was made to provide Council members with an update on the Christensen Road
Overpass Project pursuant to 2 affiliated vouchers on the payables list.  Mayor Kaysen advised he
would request the MPO (Metropolitan Planning Organization) Director to provide an update.  Main
motion to approve pay ment of vouche rs, ex cluding the vouche r payable to Mr. Crisp, ca rried.
Voting “yes” -- all members  of the governing body present in Council C hambers.  Following
announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE  - Vacating a portion of Alexander Avenue and 13th Street, adjacent to Blocks
444, 445, 452 and 453, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of E. Lincolnway, west
of Dunn Avenue).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third
and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. (#4042)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential-Established to
MUB Mixed-Use B usiness Emphas is for Lots 7 and 8, B lock 509, Orig inal City , Chey enne,
Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of W. 10th Street and Bent Avenue).
Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4043)
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 6.04.020, Definitions, of Chapter 6.04, Definitions,
Administration and Enforcement; Creating a new Section 6.08.190, Community Cat Initiative, of
Chapter 6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally; and Amending Section 6.20.020,
Animal Impoundment, of Chapter 6.20, Impoundment, of Title 6, Animals, of the Code of the City
of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Broyles).
 
ORDINANCE - Amending  Section 12.04.010, Obstructions on Streets, and Sec tion
12.04.080, Construction and Repair - Permits Required - Fees - Exception, of Chapter 12.04, Streets,
Sidewalks and Driveways Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Code
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Broyles).
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne supports the
application of the  Town of B urns for $42,000 in State L oan and Investment Board 2015 - 2016
Countywide Consensus B lock Gra nt funds t o purchase a truc k for the B urns Maintena nce
Department.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5621)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budg et of the Cit y of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - G ranting an exception for de velopment of small waste water treatment
systems pursuant to the 201 Agreement for Cheyenne Power Park, a planned unit development,
located generally within the NW1/4 of Section 29, T.13N., R.66W., of the 6  P.M., Laramie County,th
Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Mr. Shanor).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Carter Cottages, a replat of portions of Tracts 245, 246, 247, 248 and a
portion of the vacated east half of Arthur Road, Sunnyside Addition, 6  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyomingth
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Hayes Avenue and US Highway 30) -- referred
to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recr eation Department, and
Brian Chalstrom, d/b/a Putt Hutt, for premises used as a miniature golf course in Lions Park.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6249)
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and I.T. Refresh, Ft. Collins, Colorado, for electronic
recycling services (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6250) 
[CA] Contract between the C ity of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Wy oming Department of
Health, Aging Division, to provide supportive service s to persons 60 years or older ( Title III-B
Program Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for
Economic Development (LEADS) for industrial and economic development services -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1  to Contract No. 6151 be tween the  City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and Short Elliott H endrickson, Inc., for the 19th Street Rehabilitation
Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, BOPU Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $117,968.00). (#6151)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6190 between the City of Cheyenne and Deep
Green Energy, LLC, for conditions requiring additional work in the George Cox and Jack R. Spiker
parking facilities (Impact Assistance funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to
exceed $16,800.00). (#6190)
Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 6115 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, to establish the Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP) for the
Cheyenne Public Safety Center Project -- referred to Finance Committee.  Reporting for Finance
Committee, Mr. Brown advised due to timing involving construction of the proposed project, the
item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the Oct. 6, 2014 Finance Committee meeting,
and provisions of Title 2 of the City Code had been met.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Lt. Mark Munar i, Cheyenne Police D epartment and Project Mana ger for the ne w
Safety Center, clarified that subsequent to the modification being  approved at the Sept. 22, 2014
meeting of the governing body, it was realized that additional information and documents needed
to be included (re: as part of  Modification No. 3), including information on project completion dates
for FCI to follow.  Lt. Munari advised the actual dollar amounts were not changing.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#6115)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-5-15 for a contract for the HR Ranch Road Greenway Gap project
between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (Development Impact Funds - Parks Infrastructure).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $96,590.00). (#6251)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-10-15 for furnishing one new 2014-2015 wheel loader mounted
snow blower from Titan Machinery, Casper, Wyoming, for the City of Cheyenne, Street and Alley
Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-12-15 for furnishing two new vehicles for the City of Cheyenne,
Youth Alternatives and Parking Divisions, from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, Wyoming (2011-
2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Application requesting the establishment of a Residential Critical Traffic and Parking Area
in the vicinity  of the Chey enne Re gional Medica l Ce nter.  Mr. Shanor moved to a pprove by
including the  e xpansion of  the  Cr itical T raffic and Parking a rea a s r ecommended b y the  City
Engineering Department, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Clarification of the map reflecting the expanded
area was provided.  Upon inquiry , Mark Esc obedo, Traffic Engineer, advised the intent of the
Critical Traffic and Parking Area ordinance is to provide r elief to residents involving residential
congested parking areas, and advised the parking restrictions will not apply to business properties
within the area.  H e explained many of the businesses may already have time limited parking
restrictions in place, and provided information on residential parking permits and fine amounts for
violations of the restric ted parking time limi ts.  I n response  to comment conce rning whether
Community Service Officers with the Police Department could assist with enforcement coverage,
Mayor Kaysen advised he would communicate with the Police Chief regarding that possibility for
patrol assistance.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointment of Judith A. Lane, to th e C heyenne
Housing Authority Board, to be confirmed October 27, 2014.
Announcement was made of a public hearing to be held October 27, 2014, at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue, to determine whe ther compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated in a portion of the
N.E. 1/4 of the S.E. 1/4 of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be knownth
as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent to Converse Avenue, north of Dell Range
Boulevard).
Announcement was made of a public hearing to be held October 27, 2014, at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, to receive public comment regarding the intent of the
City of Cheyenne to submit an application for funding to the Wyoming Business Council’s Business
Ready Communi ty, Communi ty Enhancement Grant Prog ram, for  the Cahill Park Universa l
Playground Project.
Under other business, Jeffrey Dierksen addressed the governing body with tr affic a nd
pedestrian safety concerns he and others in his neighborhood have regarding the speed limit on a
portion of Pinto L ane.  He referenced a  petition (on file with City  Clerk’s off ice) signe d by
neighborhood supporters in the area requesting re-designation of Pinto Lane as a local street, instead
of a collector street;  reducing the speed limit to 25 mph, and installing speed humps and a pedestrian
crossing with signa ge.  Mayor Kaysen acknowledged receipt of the  petition and explained the
process the City utilizes for requests of this type, particularly when an area of concern is close to
schools; advised of the City ’s Neighborhood Transportation Plan and MPO Corri dor Plans, and
stated the concerns presented would be reviewed and analyzed by applicable City staff.
Bart Stolp also addressed the governing body with traffic and pedestrian safety concerns
involving a por tion of Van B uren Avenue between Dell Range Blvd. and Highway 30, which
includes the Dildine Elementary School area.  He referenced a letter he had previously submitted to
the City (on file with City Clerk’s office) that included signatures of neighbors in the area in support
of reviewing the concerns presented by Mr. Stolp.  He commented on high traffic speeds; suggested
flashing lights be utilized near the  school for student/pedestrian safety, and requested signage be
located more north of the school as well as the installation of speed humps.  Mayor Kaysen advised
applicable City staff will review the concerns presented and will also communicate with the school
district regarding the issues that Mr. Stolp had raised.
There being  no furth er business t o come be fore the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:55 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 27, 2014