MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-10-27 | CLIP_ID: 451 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 451

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
October 27, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n Council C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and
Ms. Williams.  Ab sent: Mr. Allen.  Al so present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City
Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Ms. Williams moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 13, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Counc il Chambers.  Mr. Valde z moved to approve pa yment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to determine w hether compliance of anne xation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated in a portion of the
Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Qua rter of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W. , 6  P.M., Cheyenne,th
Wyoming, to be known as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent to Converse Avenue,
north of Dell Range Boulevard).  Jim Flesher, Planning Services Department, stated the proposed
annexation is p ursuant t o a  pe tition re questing a nnexation su bmitted b y Scenic De velopment,
property owner, and that requirements and compliance of annexation conditions contained in state
statutes had been met.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having
been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive public comment regarding the intent of the
City of Cheyenne to submit an application for funding to the Wyoming Business Council’s Business
Ready Com munity, Co mmunity En hancement Grant P rogram, f or the  Ca hill Pa rk Un iversally
Accessible Playground Project.  Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager, advised the project will include
the de molition a nd removal of  c urrent p layground e quipment a t th e pa rk a nd e xplained th at a
universally acc essible playground has f eatures that allow a ccessibility and use by  all able a nd
disabled children, adults and ca regivers.  She re viewed the  purpose a nd require ments of the
Community Enhancement Grant Program, noting that Cheyenne does not currently have this type
of playground in the community; advised the project is estimated to cost $420,000.00 with the grant
request in the amount of $210,000.00, and stated the City will match the grant request amount
through in-kind services, community facility fees and a recreation mill grant that has already been
approved for the pr oject.  Ms. S chneider also reviewed the time fra mes involved with the g rant
process.  Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, distributed a project summary sheet (on file
with City Clerk’s off ice); provided a br ief history of ef forts made toward implem entation of a
universally accessible playground, and e xplained why Cahill P ark was selected as the loc ation.
Speaking in support of the playground project were Monica Puente, former Leadership Cheyenne
participant, and JoAnne Weigand and Anne Picot, Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities.
Comments included whether Cahill Park was the best location for the playground.  There being no
further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the
public hearing.
ORDINANCE - A mending Section 6.04.020, Definitions, of Chapter 6.04, Definitions,
Administration and Enforcement; Creating a new Section 6.08.190, Community Cat Initiative, of
Chapter 6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally; and Amending Section 6.20.020,
Animal Impoundment, of Chapter 6.20, Impoundment, of Title 6, Animals, of the Code of the City
of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mayor Kaysen requested Ms. Broyles, as sponsor of the ordinance, provide
an explanation of the purpose of the ordinance.  Ms. Broyles advised the ordinance would allow for
a more effective approach of addressing the community’s current homeless cat population and will
involve a humane  proce ss of trapping , neuter ing, a nd rele asing the cats, resulting  in a lower
population of community cats.  Britney Wallesch, Executive Director, Black Dog Animal Rescue,
spoke in support of the or dinance and use of humane “trap and return” programs.  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
 
ORDINANCE - A mending Section 12 .04.010, Obstructions on Streets, and Sec tion
12.04.080, Construction and Repair - Permits Required - Fees - Exception, of Chapter 12.04, Streets,
Sidewalks and Driveways Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Code
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Ms. Broyles, as sponsor of the ordinance, briefly explained the
ordinance would provide for clarification regarding the placing of storage containers and roll-offs
within City rights-of-way and reviewed elements of the proposed ordinance involving a permit
process (with a fee); landscaping projects/materials; time limits, and notification (permit posting)
requirements.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry regarding the proposed 72 hour time limit for obstructions
involving landscaping materials, Rob Geringer, City Engineer, advised the time limit will provide
for proper protection for sediment control and run-off concerns.  He advised this could be construed
as an e nforcement issu e if landscaping obstructions ex tend beyond the time limit .  Discussion
followed on the length of time needed to complete certain landscaping projects.  Dr. Rinne moved
to amend par agraph C.1. of Sec tion 12.04.010 to ins ert the w ords “without a permit” so the
subsection would re ad as f ollows, seconded by  Mr. Cook: “The pe riod of obstruction shall not
exceed seventy-two (72) hours without a permit;”.  Comments followed on the initial intent of the
ordinance, which does not have a permit process applicable to landscaping materials; reasonable time
limit regarding landscaping materials as obstructions, and concerns with displaying a permit if a
permit is required for landscaping materials.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Broyles,
Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor a nd Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Luna, Mr.
Valdez and Mayor Kaysen. [City Clerk note:  Announcement of voting results reflected the motion
failed, however, upon subsequent review of votes cast (following closure of the meeting), it was
confirmed the motion to amend carried.]  Ms. Broyles moved to amend by substitute (dated Oct. 27,
2014), seconded by Mr. Brown.  Changes contained in the proposed substitute were reviewed and,
upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, clarified language shown as a “strike through” in Section
12.04.080 B in the substitute had a lso been include d in the  initial ordinance.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Luna
voting “no”. [City Clerk note: The motion to amend by  substitute ordinance replaced the initial
ordinance, as amended.]  Discussion followed and included comments in support as well a s
opposition to the ordinanc e.  Topics include d: Current City  Code obstructions  in rights-of-way
restrictions; enforcement concerns; permit/fee requirement; length of the proposed ordinance and
various violation sections, and purpose of the ordinance, which is to address how long storage
containers and landscaping materials may be located on streets (public rights-of-way).  Upon inquiry,
Mr. White advised the ordinance structure format was based on an ordinance considered by City
Council a few years ago, and at the current time it is unlawful to have obstructions of this type in the
public rights-of-way.  He explained the ordinance would provide for the obstructions under certain
conditions, and include affiliated violations, and would allow people to use rights-of-way for private
uses on a limited basis.  Motion to approve on second reading, as amended by substitute ordinance,
failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne, and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” --  Mr.
Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in
a portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M.,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent to Converse
Avenue, north of Dell Range Boulevard) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr.
Shanor). 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential to NR-3
Neighborhood Residential – High Density for a parcel of land situated in a portion of the Northeast
Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to
be known as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent to Converse Avenue, north of Dell
Range Boulevard) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropr iating the Fiscal Year 2015 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5622)
RESOLUTION - G ranting an exception for de velopment of small waste water treatment
systems pursuant to the 201 Agreement for Cheyenne Power Park, a planned unit development,
located generally within the NW1/4 of Section 29, T.13N., R.66W., of the 6  P.M., Laramie County,th
Wyoming.  Ga ry Hickm an, Chey enne-Laramie County  Hea lth Depar tment, Division of
Environmental Health, briefly explained the 201 Agreement and provisions within the Agreement
for granting an exception to requirements as affiliated with the resolution.  James Perrott McNeil
spoke in opposition to development of any land or any zone changes on Union Pacific (railroad)
property.  Casey  Palma, Steil  Survey ing Ser vices, a gent for the  proper ty owner , ref erenced
information that had been previously provided regarding approval of the hardship exception request
to allow for 11 small septic system permits (one per lot) to be issued for the Cheyenne Power Park,
located south of Cheyenne, for development purposes, and requested approval of the resolution.  Mr.
Shanor reported there was no recommendation on the item from Public Services Committee.  Mr.
Shanor m oved to  a dopt, se conded b y Mr. Luna.  M r. Sha nor m oved to  a mend by  su bstitute
resolution, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  It was advised the proposed substitute addresses concerns that
had been raised relating to “land locking” growth of the City by adding Condition c. under Section
2 of the resolution to read as follows: “If, and when, conditions for annexation exist for any of the
properties governed by the Cheyenne Power Park PUD, the owner or owners of each such property
shall seek a nnexation int o the municipal boundar ies of the City  of Chey enne.”.  Mr. Hickman
explained that whenever permits are issued it includes wor ding that when City  sewer services
become available, the landowner would be required to hook-up.  Discussion followed and included
the following topics: Whether the amendment, the exception, and 201 Agreement generally “runs”
with the property or with the current or future owner of the property; party responsible for acquiring
the State Engineer’s permit to drill water wells; lot sizes relative to septic systems; whether permits
are recorded with the County Clerk; annexation; property covenants; maintenance of 201 permits
through t he Environmental He alth office ; potential scena rios if wells/septic sy stems fail, and
enforcement of the 201 Agreement.  Upon inquiry during discussion, Dan White, City Attorney, and
Mr. Hickman provided information available relating to permits; hardship exemptions; septic system
criteria; whether permits “run” with the prope rty itself or with the prope rty owner, and the 201
Agreement, which deals with septic/sewage systems, not water wells.  Motion to amend car ried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Williams
voting “no”.  Main motion, as amended by substitute, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#5623)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submission of a Business Ready Community, Community
Enhancement Grant Application to the Wyoming Business Council for the Cahill Park Universally
Accessible Pla yground Pr oject - - referred to  Finance Com mittee (s ponsors -- Mr. B rown, M s.
Broyles and Mr. Luna).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in the submission of a
Business Ready Community, Community Readiness Grant Application to the Wyoming Business
Council for the ne w Airport Terminal Project -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - - Mr.
Brown and Mr. Allen).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Carter Cottages, a replat of portions of Tracts 245, 246, 247, 248 and a
portion of the vacated east half of Arthur Road, Sunnyside Addition, 6  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyomingth
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Hayes Avenue and US Highway 30).  Motion
(per Consent Ag enda) to acknow ledge the Planning  Commission’s recommendation to approve
carried.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Wy oming Department of
Health, Aging Division, to provide supportive  services to persons 60 y ears or older ( Title III-B
Program Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6255)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for
Economic Development (LEADS) for industrial and economic development services.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $50,000.00). (#6256)
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the State of Wyoming, Office of Homeland Security and
the City of Chey enne, Cheyenne Police D epartment, for a G rant Award from the United S tates
Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Grant
Programs Directorate, State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSP) Fiscal Year 2014, for Region
7 Bomb Team, in the amount of $20,000.00 -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the State of Wyoming, Office of Homeland Security and
the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, for the Grant Award from the United States
Department of  Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Grant
Program Directorate, State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSP) Fiscal Year 2014, for Law
Enforcement and Terrorism Prevention-Oriented Activities (LETPA), in the amount of $41,373.65 --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the State of Wyoming, Office of Homeland Security  and
the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue Department, for the Grant Award from the United States
Department of Homeland Security (DHS),  Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Grant
Program Directorate, State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSP) Fiscal Year 2014, for the
Region 7 State Regional Emergency Response Team, in the amount of $100,000.00 -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6131  between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, a nd Mo nument Builders, Inc., of  Che yenne, Wyoming, f or the  Ho usehold
Hazardous Waste Facility, Sitework, and Underground Storage Tank Replacement Project (State &
Local Grants) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Contract No. 5975 betwee n the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering D epartment, and Simon C ontractors, Chey enne, Wy oming, f or the Ea st Pershing
Boulevard/19th S treet/Converse Av enue I ntersection I mprovements Pr oject to  pa rtially re lease
retainage (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-10-15 for f urnishing one new 2014-2015 wheel loader mounted
snow blower from Titan Machinery, Casper, Wyoming, for the City of Cheyenne, Street and Alley
Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid in an amount
not to exceed $94,638.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-12-15 for furnishing two new vehicles for the City of Cheyenne,
Youth Alternatives and Parking Divisions, from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, Wyoming (2011-
2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid in an amount not to exceed
$43,294.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-15-15 for the sale of surplus property described as Lot 1, 2 and 3,
Block 660, Re-plat of a part of South Cheyenne, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located at 522 Van Lennen Avenue) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-16-15 for the sale of surplus property described as All of L ot 8,
Block 348, Original City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at 1700/1710 Snyder
Avenue) -- referred to Finance Committee.     
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-11-15 for furnishing one new 2014-2015 small dozer (CAT D5K5-2
LGP or equal) for the City of Cheyenne, Landfill Division (Solid Waste Management) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
Re-Appointment of Judith A. Lane, to the Cheyenne Housing Authority Board.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve , seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion ca rried.  Voting  “yes” – a ll members of the
governing body present w ith the exception of  Mayor Kaysen who did not vo te ( Mayoral
appointment).
Announcement was made  of the Appointments of Richar d C. L oveless Jr. and Wallace
Erickson, to the  Cheyenne Downtown Development A uthority Board (DDA), to b e c onfirmed
November 10, 2014.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 10, 2014 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a bar and grill liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for JSKB, Inc. d/b/a Pizzeria Venti, 112 East
17  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming. th
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 10, 2014 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a restaurant liquor license
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Loveless Investments LLC d/b/a Camille’s Gumbo
House, 1617 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 10, 2014, at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public comments
regarding the sale of a tract of land owned by the City of Cheyenne, located at 206 West Lincolnway,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, legally described as the East 22 feet of Lot 7, Block 390, Original City, to the
Children’s Museum of Cheyenne, Inc., a Wyoming corporation, for economic development purposes
pursuant to W.S. § 15-1-112(b)(i)(D), and in exchange for consideration as provided by Section 5
of the Project Development and Administration Agreement entered into between the City and the
Children’s Museum of Cheyenne, Inc., dated October 6, 2014. (City Contract # 6242).
Under o ther b usiness, Ms.  Willi ams t hanked lo cal po lice a nd sheri ff officers fo r t heir
attendance at a neighborhood watch meeting.
There being no further business to c ome before the governing body, the m eeting was
officially adjourned at 7:25 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 November 10, 2014