MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-11-10 | CLIP_ID: 454 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 454

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
November 10, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n Council C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen (arriving at 6:03 p.m.) , Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook (arriving at 6:03
p.m.), Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor  and Ms. Williams.  Absent: Mr. Valdez.  Also present:
Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge
of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Brown moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 27, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Shanor declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to F irst
Judicial District Attorney’s Office) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve
payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Inquiry was made regarding vouchers
payable to 4 Rivers Equipment (replacement lawnmowers for Parks and Recreation Department);
Art Payroll.Com (temporary labor staf fing for  a performance at the Civic Center ), and F reddy
Cisneros (patio pad wor k for a  HOME prog ram re cipient throug h Communi ty Housing  and
Development office).  Information on the department’s lawnmower replacement plan was provided
by Todd Feezer, Assistant Director, Parks and Recreation Department, and Mayor Kaysen explained
services provided by Art Payroll and Mr. Cisneros. [Duri ng discussion Mr. Allen and Mr . Cook
joined the meeting.]  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in
Council Ch ambers.  F ollowing a nnouncement o f t he vo te, M r. Shanor  re turned to  Cou ncil
Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive public comment regarding a bar and grill
liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for JSKB, Inc. d/b/a Pizzeria Venti, 112
East 17th Street, Cheyenne Wyoming.  There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing
having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance
Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive public comment regarding a restaurant
liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Loveless Investments LLC d/b/a
Camille’s Gumbo House, 1617 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  There being no comments
or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and
referred the application to Finance Committee.
 Mayor Kaysen advised the next item on the agenda (i.e.  Public hearing regarding the sale
of a tract of land owned by the City of Cheyenne, located at 206 West Lincolnway, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, legally described as the East 22 feet of Lot 7, Block 390, Original City, to the Children’s
Museum of Cheyenne, Inc., a Wyoming corporation, for economic development purposes pursuant
to W.S. § 15-1-112(b)(i)(D), and in exchang e for consideration as provided by  Section 5 of the
Project De velopment and Adminis tration Ag reement enter ed into betwee n the City  and the
Children’s Museum of Cheyenne, Inc., dated October 6, 2014. (City Contract # 6242)) was being
re-scheduled to the November 24, 2014 meeting, beginning at 6:00 p.m., to a llow state statute
publication requirements to be met prior to the hearing.  He noted an announcement of the changed
date of the public hearing was included on the current agenda as Item #26 (c).
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 6.04.020, Definitions, of Chapter 6.04, Definitions,
Administration and Enforcement; Creating a new Section 6.08.190, Community Cat Initiative, of
Chapter 6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally; and Amending Section 6.20.020,
Animal Impoundment, of Chapter 6.20, Impoundment, of Title 6, Animals, of the Code of the City
of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present. (#4044)
 
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in
a portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M.,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent to Converse
Avenue, n orth of Dell Range B oulevard).  M r. S hanor m oved t o ap prove o n s econd re ading,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential to NR-3
Neighborhood Residential – High Density for a parcel of land situated in a portion of the Northeast
Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to
be known as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent to Converse Avenue, north of Dell
Range Boulevard).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Comment was made relative to future consideration by City Council members involving properties
planned for development brought into the City parcel by parcel and not as a “whole” area with regard
to community park requirements.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from AG Agricultural to HI Heavy Industrial Lot 1 & Lot
2, Block 1 of Plains Industrial Park, 2  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest cornernd
of the interse ction of C ampstool Road and HR Ranch Road)  -- r eferred to Publi c Servic es
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
ORDINANCE - Amending the Central Business District (CBD) zoning to include the design
standards currently exis ting as the Small S cale Commercial and Mixed Use De sign Standards
described in Chey enne U nified De velopment Code Section 6.7 --  ref erred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submission of a Business Ready Community, Community
Enhancement Grant Application to the Wyoming Business Council for the Cahill Park Universally
Accessible Playground Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5624)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in the submission of a
Business Ready Community, Community Readiness Grant Application to the Wyoming Business
Council for the new Airport Terminal Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5625)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Scenic
Development, situated in a portion of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M.,
Cheyenne, W yoming (l ocated we st o f a nd ad jacent t o C onverse A venue, n orth o f D ell R ange
Boulevard) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fisc al Year 2015 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to execute an instrument waiving
and relinquishing the interests of the City of Cheyenne in a right-of-way Easement granted to the
City by the Transportation Commission of Wyoming, and authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk
to execute an agreement under which the Transportation Commission will convey to the City fee
simple title to a portion of said right-of-way Easement subject to the condition that the right-of-way
to be acquired by the City will be used for public transportation purposes and subject to the further
condition that the City will assume all responsibility for said right-of-way pursuant to W.S. § 24-2-
126(c)(ii) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the submission of an Our Town G rant Application to the
National Endowment for the Arts with the City of Cheyenne as the lead applicant and the Children’s
Museum of Cheyenne, Inc. as the secondary applicant -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Bro wn). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - An exception to the “201 Agreement” to allow a septic permit for a small
wastewater treat ment system for a  residential pr operty for the south 1/2 of Tr acts 105 &  106,
Sunnyside Additio n, 4  Filing, Che yenne, Wy oming ( located a t the northea st corner  of theth
intersection of Monroe Ave nue and Cha rles Stree t) -- r eferred to Publi c Services Commi ttee
(sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the City  Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the
amount of $47,748.60 pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Brown).
[CA] Preliminary Plat, a replat of a portion of the NW ¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., of the 6th
P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Foothills Road between Point Bluff
and Mountain Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Preliminary Plat, a repla t of a portion of Sec tion 35 , T.14N., R.66W. of the 6th P.M.,
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of Pennsylvania Avenue, extending both 13th
Street and Atlantic Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the State of Wyoming, Office of Homeland Security and
the City of Chey enne, Cheyenne Police D epartment, for a  Grant Award from the United States
Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Grant
Programs Directorate, State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSP) Fiscal Year 2014, for Region
7 Bomb Team, in the amount of $20,000.00.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6257)
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the State of Wyoming, Office of Homeland Security and
the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, for the Grant Award from the United States
Department of  Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Grant
Program Directorate, State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSP) Fiscal Year 2014, for Law
Enforcement and Terrorism Prevention-Oriented Activities (LETPA), in the amount of $41,373.65.
(#6258) 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the State of Wyoming, Office of Homeland Security and
the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue Department, for the Gr ant Award from the U nited States
Department of Homeland Security (DHS),  Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Grant
Program Directorate, State Homeland Sec urity Grant Program (SHSP) Fiscal Year 2014, for the
Region 7 State Regional Emergency Response Team, in the amount of $100,000.00.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6259)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Assured E quity
Management Corpora tion for hea lth insurance c onsulting ser vices (Conting ency Fun ds and
Unrestricted Reserves) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County, Wyoming,
for  reimbursement of dual-commissioned Juvenile Diversion Officer’s salary (revenue to City) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6131  between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and Monument Builders, Inc., of Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Ho usehold
Hazardous Waste Facility, Sitework, and Underground Storage Tank Replacement Project (State &
Local Grants).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Contract Modific ation No. 1 to Contract No. 5975 betwe en the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering D epartment, a nd Si mon Co ntractors, Ch eyenne, Wy oming, f or th e E ast P ershing
Boulevard/19th S treet/Converse Av enue I ntersection I mprovements Pr oject to  pa rtially re lease
retainage (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-15-15 for the sale of surplus property described as Lot 1, 2 and 3,
Block 660, Re-plat of a pa rt of South Chey enne, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located at 522 Van Lennen Avenue).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Tara
Curry and Scott Parsons in the amount of $51,731.51 plus $2,500.00 reimbursement to the City for
the property appraisal cost, for a total amount of $54,231.51).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-16-15 for the sale of surplus property described as All of L ot 8,
Block 348, Original City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at 1700/1710 Snyder
Avenue).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Tara Curry and Scott Parsons
in the amount of $155,343.22 plus $2,500.00 reimbursement to the City for the property appraisal
cost, for a total amount of $157,845.22).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-11-15 for furnishing one new 2014-2015 small dozer (CAT D5K5-2
LGP or equal) for the City of Cheyenne, Landfill Division (Solid Waste Management).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Wyoming Machinery, Cheyenne, in an amount not to
exceed $69,221.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-6-15 for crushing concrete at the Happy Jack Landfill -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
   
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-14-15 for f urnishing a nd installing miscellane ous p olice car
equipment for the Police Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
    
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-8-15 for f urnishing one to three me dium/heavy duty, body on
chassis, low floor buses with wheel chair accessibility for the City of Cheyenne, Transit  Division
(Federal Grant, local match) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointments of Richard C. Loveless Jr. and Wallace Erickson, to the Cheyenne Downtown
Development Authority Board (DDA).  Mr.  Shanor moved to appr ove, seconded by Dr. Rinne.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of
Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at
the January 21, 2015 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Business  M eeting -- referred to
Finance Committee.   
Announcement was  made of  the Appointments of L andon Brown, Philip J . Griggs and
Kenneth C. Uhrich, to the City Planning Commission, and Stefanie Boster, Michael Hofmeister and
Kevin L. Schaiger to the Board of Adjustments, to be confirmed November 24, 2014. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 24, 2014, at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming to receive public comments
regarding the sale of a tract of land owned by the City of Cheyenne, located at 206 West Lincolnway,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, legally described as the East 22 feet of Lot 7, Block 390, Original City, to the
Children’s Museum of Cheyenne, Inc., a Wyoming corporation, for economic development purposes
pursuant to W.S. § 15-1-112(b)(i)(D), and in exchange for consideration as provided by Section 5
of the Project Development and Administration Agreement entered into between the City and the
Children’s Museum of Cheyenne, Inc., dated October 6, 2014. (City Contract # 6242).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 24, 2014, at 6:00 p.m.
in Cit y Coun cil Chambers, 2101 O’ Neil Avenue , Chey enne, Wy oming to dete rmine whe ther
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 ex ist for a parcel of land
situated in a portion of the NW 1/4 of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County,
Wyoming, to be known as The Bluffs, 10th Filing, Annexation (located between Converse Avenue
and Crestridge Drive, north of Foothills Road).
Under other business:
Major Dorr commented on the recent programs that were provided free to the public by the
Laramie County Community College’s Music Department, noting low spectator attendance, and
encouraged people to attend.
Ms. Williams stated that at the October 27, 2014 City Council meeting the motion to approve
an ordinance amending portions of City Code Title 12 regarding Obstructions on Streets failed on
second reading, and, having voted on the prevailing side and pursuant to Chapter 2.04 of City Code,
moved to reconsider the vote pursuant to potential amendments that may be proposed to the
ordinance, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Upon request by Mayor Kaysen, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk,
read th e e ntitlement o f t he or dinance pr oposed f or re consideration int o the record a s f ollows:
“Ordinance  - 2nd Reading  - Amending Section 12.04.010, Obstruction s on Streets, and Sec tion
12.04.080, Construction and Repair - Permits Required - Fees - Exception, of Chapter 12.04, Streets,
Sidewalks and Driveways Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Code
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.”  Mr. Shanor raised a point of order regarding who was eligible
to second a motion to reconsider.  Mayor Kaysen advised any City Council member can second the
motion (per City Code).  Upon query by Mayor Kaysen, Ms. Williams advised during discussion at
the last City Council meeting, suggestions for potential amendments were brought up and purpose
of the motion to recon sider is to enable furthe r discussion involving possible cha nges to the
ordinance.  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne, Ms.
Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Cook, Mr.  Luna and Mr. Shanor.
Mayor Kaysen stated that as the motion to reconsider had carried, the main motion to approve the
ordinance on second reading, as amended by substitute at the October 27th City Council meeting,
was now back before the governing body.  M s. Williams moved to postpone for two weeks (to
November 24, 2014), seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Following comments, motion to postpone carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Mayor Kaysen announced that due to
postponement, the item will be reviewed at the next Finance Committee meeting, which will be held
Monday, November 17, 2014 at 11:00 a.m., Room 122, of the Municipal Building.  
There being no further business to c ome before the governing body, the m eeting was
officially adjourned at 6:25 p.m. 
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 November 20, 2014