MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-11-24 | CLIP_ID: 455 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 455

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
November 24, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning at 6:00
p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr.
Allen (arriving at 6:30 p.m.), Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez  and
Ms. Williams.  Absent:  Mr. Cook.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be routine
items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion on
these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two other members is
received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal sequence on the
agenda.) Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Shanor and Ms. Broyles,
agenda item #28(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by Ms. Broyles, and pursuant
to support received by Mr. Brown and Dr. Rinne, ag enda item #27(b) was removed from the Consent
Agenda.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on November 10, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interes t in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor  moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Upon inquiry , Rick Parish, Parks and Re creation Director,
provided information on a purchase order payable to Brody Chemical for AquaBlue lake dye (used to
reduce algae growth in lakes), advising the dye is applied at a minimum of once a year.  Motion carried.
Voting “ yes” - - all member s of the g overning body  prese nt in Council C hambers.  Following
announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive public comments regarding the sale of a tract
of land owned by the City of Cheyenne, located at 206 West Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming, legally
described as the East 22 feet of Lot 7, Block 390, Original City, to the Children’s Museum of Cheyenne,
a Wyoming corporation, for economic development purposes pursuant to W.S. § 15-1-112(b)(i)(D), and
in exchange for consideration as provided by Section 5 of the Project Development and Administration
Agreement entered into between the City and the Children’s Museum of Cheyenne, dated October 6, 2014
(City Contract # 6242) ( Rescheduled from  11/10/14).  Aimee D endrinos, Children’s Museum of
Cheyenne, pr ovided information on the Children’ s Museum’s proposed utilization of the land, and
commented on the Museum’s educational aspects, employment opportunities and economic development
benefits resulting from the Museum’s new building project.  Jim Weaver, agent with #1 Properties, spoke
on behalf of Outback Investments, owner of the Hynds Building (adjacent property), expressing support
for the Children’s Museum’s building project but noting the Hynds owner’s concern that discussions on
a corridor between the two buildings for potential joint access and benefit may not be held once the sales
transaction for the prope rty is complete and the  City is no longe r involved.  He discusse d provisions
contained in the previously approved contract (Contract #6242) relative to construction of the Children’s
Museum and potential effect on the Hynds Building, current status of seeking an attorney general’s opinion
on transac tion lega lities as stated in the contra ct, and the c orridor’s importance r elative to sale s
marketability of the Hynds Building.  U pon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised, pursuant to
wording contained in the contract, a letter was submitted to the Wyoming Attorney General’s Office and
a response letter was received indicating the Attorney General would not be rendering an opinion at this
time on the legality of the transaction.  Mr. Weaver questioned whether the entire agreement was still
viable, or if it would be amended, with regard to the Attorney General’s response.  Mr. White declined to
respond to the question, expressing his belief that it would be inappropriate for him to do so at this time
as his response would be more a matter of confidential legal advice to City Council.  Discussion topics
included: General belief that the Museum’s representative(s) intent is to communicate with the owner of
the Hynds Building; time in which the owner of the Hynds Building has had to present a viable offer to
purchase the City’s property, and sale of the property to an interested party (i.e. Children’s Museum) for
less than the appraised value.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Weaver provided information on past presentations that
have been made to the City regarding proposed use of a corridor relative to development of “the hole”,
noting the concept was never to buy and use the property but how to best utilize use of a corridor.  Mayor
Kaysen noted the City has received conceptual proposals in the past but nothing had been requested to
bring a for mal proposal for ward.  There  being no furt her comments or discussion and purpose  of the
hearing having been met, May or Kaysen closed the  public hear ing.  He advised Agenda Item #23, a
resolution affiliated with the proposed sale, was on the current agenda and had been referred (as a Consent
Agenda item) to Finance Committee, which will discuss the resolution at its 11 a.m. meeting on December
1, 2014.
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a public hea ring to rec eive public c omments to determine whether
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated
in a portion of the NW 1/4 of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be
known as The Bluffs, 10th Filing, Annexation (located between Converse Avenue and Crestridge Drive,
north of Foothills Road).  Logan Graves, Planning and Development office, stated the proposed annexation
is pursuant to a petition requesting annexation submitted by the property owner and that requirements and
compliance of annexation conditions contained in state statutes had been met. Ms. Graves noted zoning
and final plat actions are also involved for consideration and that the preliminary plat is in process.  There
being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed
the public hearing.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in a portion
of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne,
Wyoming, to be known as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent to Converse Avenue, north
of Dell Range Boulevard).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present. (#4045)
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendme nts, Secti on 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Of ficial Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential to NR-3
Neighborhood Residential – High Density for a parcel of land situated in a portion of the Northeast Quarter
of the Southeast Quarter of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as
Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent to Converse Avenue, north of Dell Range Boulevard).
Mr. Shanor moved to a pprove on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4046)
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Section, 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amen dments, Section 5.1.2, Z oning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Of ficial Zoning Map, of the Che yenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from AG Agricultural to HI Heavy Industrial Lot 1 & Lot 2,
Block 1 of Plains Industrial Park, 2  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of thend
intersection of Campstool Road and HR Ranch Road).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Ms. Willliams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. 
ORDINANCE - A mending the Central Business District (CBD) zoning to include the design
standards currently existing as the Small Scale Commercial and Mixed Use Design Standards described
in Cheyenne Unified Development Code Section 6.7.   [City Clerk note: Mr. Allen joined the meeting in
progress.]  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, expressed his belief that the or dinance would not
forward downtown e conomic deve lopment effor ts and may  result in unintended consequenc es, and
commented on elements involved in the standards and how they would be applied to certain downtown
properties relative to existing vs. new buildings.  Speaking in favor of the design standards were:  David
Ohde, DDA/Mainstreet Design Committee, commenting in support of the standar ds applying to ne w
construction and additions which will benefit the downtown area; Dick O’Gara, Vice-President, DDA
Board, expressing support for the standards and mandatory guidelines and noting the DDA Board has not
yet had an opportunity to officially vote on the standards, and Glen Garrett, downtown property owner,
citing the standard’s positive impact on property values, quality building, and downtown and community
benefits.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Shanor moved
to amend to include Staff  Recommenda tion #2 (to ex clude Sec tion 6.7.3.c, Enclosure  Ratio, from
applicability to the Central Business District zone), seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Comments followed on the
reason for the pr oposed amendment.  Motion to amend car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present.  Upon inquiry regarding the standards’ applicability to additions and whether it
would also apply to exi sting buildings affiliated with an addition, Br andon Cammarata, Planning a nd
Development Director, advised the requirements would apply to new additions to an existing building.
Discussion followed on setbacks, lot lines and what c onstitutes an addition.  Mr. Cammara ta provided
information pertaining to the topics raised, and clarified interpretation of an addition would be based upon
applicant information submitted through the building permit process.  Further comments followed on the
need for guidelines for new construction downtown; past efforts to implement standards specifically
patterned for downtown; waiting to approve any standards following review of regulatory processes to be
more business fr iendly, including a dditional public input, and after de termining the effects of
implementation of the downtown facade program and the DDA/Main Street loan program, and Planning
Commission recommendations related to the topic.  Main motion as amended  failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr.
Brown, Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne, and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 12.04.010, Obstructions on Streets, and Sec tion 12.04.080,
Construction and Repair - Permits Required - Fees - Exception, of Chapter 12.04, Streets, Sidewalks and
Driveways Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks a nd Public Pl aces, of the Code of the  City of
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Pursuant to recognition by the chair (i.e. Mayor Kaysen), Ms. Broyles requested
the opportunity to make a statement in conjunction with a request she would be making to withdraw the
item from the agenda.  Mr. Shanor raised a point of order questioning whether comments could be made
prior to having  a motion on the floor.  May or Kaysen responded that he w ould offer Ms. Broyles, as
sponsor of the or dinance, the opportunity to comment rela tive to her intention to reque st the item be
withdrawn from the agenda.  Ms. Broyles commented on the initial purpose of the ordinance and, noting
there had bee n numerous discussions on the topic and that membe rs of the gov erning body have not
reached a consensus of agreement on what should be done to address obstructions on streets, requested
the item be withdrawn from the agenda.  Following query to members of the governing body present and
with no objection being raised, Mayor Kaysen announced the item was being withdrawn from the agenda.
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 10.32.030, Decreasing State Speed Limits in Certain Zones,
and amending the attached Schedule A- 2, of Chapter 10.32, Spee d Limits, of Title 10, Vehic les and
Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming (sponsor - Ms. Williams) -- referred to Public
Services Committee.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of the NW1/4 of Section
21, T.14N.,  R.66W., 6  P.M., L aramie County , Wy oming, to be know n as The B luffs, 10  Filingth th
Annexation (located between Converse Avenue and Crestridge Drive, north of Foothills Road) (sponsor -
Mr. Shanor) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 13.12, Sewer System, of Title 13, Public Services, of the Code
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, by revising Section 13.12.030, Deposit of Excrement, Ga rbage or
Objectionable Waste Prohibited, and adding Section 13.12.195, Unauthorized and Prohibited Discharges
(sponsor - Mr. Shanor) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the  Ma yor a nd the  City  Cle rk to s ign a  F inal Pla t f or Sc enic
Development, situated in a portion of the NE¼ of  the SE¼ of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P .M.,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Converse Avenue, north of Dell Range Boulevard).
Mr. Shanor moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Shanor  moved to amend to include Planning
Commission Condition #1 (add an access easement for Lot 3 prior to recording the Final Plat), seconded
by Ms. Broyles.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Main motion to adopt as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#5626)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5627)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to execute an instrument waiving and
relinquishing the interests of the City of Cheyenne in a right-of-way Easement granted to the City by the
Transportation Commission of Wyoming, and authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to execute an
agreement under which the Transportation Commission will convey to the City fee simple title to a portion
of said right-of-way Easement subject to the condition that the right-of-way to be acquired by the City will
be used for public transportation purposes and subject to the further condition that the City will assume
all responsibility for said right-of-way pursuant to W.S. § 24-2-126(c)(ii).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5628)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submission of an Our Town Grant Application to the National
Endowment for the Arts with the City of Cheyenne as the lead applicant and the Children’s Museum of
Cheyenne as the secondary applicant.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5629)
RESOLUTION - An exception to the “201 Agreement” to allow a septic permit for a s mall
wastewater treatment system for a residential property for the south 1/2 of Tracts 105 & 106, Sunnyside
Addition, 4  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Monroeth
Avenue and Charles Street).  Mr. Shanor  moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Shanor moved to
postpone to December 8, 2014 (to allow additional review regarding the exception request and any other
potential options, and pursuant to questions raised at the Public Services Committee meeting), seconded
by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the amount of
$47,748.60 pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5630)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing t he City  of  Che yenne, Wy oming, to  le ase, w ith a n o ption to
purchase, sanitation, recycling, and landf ill equipment (Soli d Waste Fund) ( sponsor - Mr. B rown) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sell a tract of land owned by the City
of Cheyenne, located at 206 West Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and having an appraised value of
seventy thousand dollars ($70,000.00), to the Children’s Museum of Cheyenne, a Wyoming Corporation,
subject to the payment of  the purchase price of one hundred dollars ($100.00), and subject to the terms
and conditions of the Projec t Development and Administration Agreement entered into by the City of
Cheyenne and the Children’s Museum of Cheyenne dated October 6, 2014 (City Contract # 6242) (sponsor
- Mr. Brown) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Acknowledging the initiation and development of the Cheyenne Historic Façade
Improvement Program for Downtown Cheyenne (sponsor - Dr. Rinne) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Acknowledging receipt of the Chey enne Cemetery Arboretum Master Plan
Report and Appendices, dated September 15, 2014, prepared by Robert Peccia and Associates (sponsors -
Mr. Allen and Mr. Brown) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Establishing guidelines for the maximum amount of excess revenue that may be
collected for the operation of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fund (spo nsors - Mr. Allen and Mr. Shanor) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Preliminary Plat, a replat of a portion of the NW ¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., of the 6  P.M.,th
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Foothills Road between Point Bluff and Mountain
Road).  Mot ion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a cknowledging the  Planning Commission’s
recommendation to approve).
Preliminary Plat, a replat of a portion of Section 35, T.14N., R.66W. of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of Pennsylvania Avenue, extending  both 13  Street and Atlanticth
Drive).  L ee Ma rtin, speaking  on behalf  of the owne r/applicant, review ed the a rea proposed f or
development, affiliated actions involving the Preliminary Plat and overall concept of a proposed housing
development consisting of 37 residential homes.  He advised they are aware of concerns regarding traffic
and dr ainage.  M r. Sha nor m oved to  a cknowledge the  Pla nning Com mission’s r ecommendation to
approve, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Discussion followed on drainage concerns relative to changes in the
water table, and traffic concerns, including limited exit areas from the subdivision.  Upon inquiry, Kelly
Hafner, Benchmark Engineers, provided information on water level testing that will be conducte d and
possibility of not including basements in some of the homes to be built, and Mr. Martin confirmed they
will not be “raising the streets” in conjunction with the development project.  Mike Gostovich, W2 Traffic
Engineering, expressed his belief that the development will not pose a significant traffic impact.  Mayor
Kaysen advised there will be an updated traffic study conducted.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Assured Equity Management
Corporation for health i nsurance consulting services (Contingency Funds a nd Unrestricted Reserves).
Rich Wiederspahn, Human Resources Director, reviewed the purpose of the proposed agreement, which
is to receive professional assistance in reviewing short and long term employee health plan objectives,
evaluating providers and plans offered, ensuring compliance with federal regulations, suggesting cost
reduction ideas and efficiencies, and working with employees for input on plan benefits.  Mr. Wiederspahn
explained the Request for Proposal (RFP) process that was utilized, number of responding vendors, vendor
interviews and resulting recommendation of a one  year agreement with Assured Equity  Management
Corporation by the review committee.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve
in an amount not to exceed $90,000.00, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Discussion topics included:  Concerns
regarding the funding amount and use of reserves; whether the services could be provided by in-house
staff; whether i nformation was available regarding Assured Equity’s history of providing savings to
clients; scope of services to be  provided; issuing an RFP for health plan proposals an d utiliz ing
professional services to review proposals; and employee wellness program status.  Upon inquiry, Josh
Feiman, Vice-President, Assured Equity Management Corporation, provided information on ser vices
provided by the company that include helping businesses evaluate providers and health plans; dealing with
insurance complexities; reviewing and monitoring c osts, and communicating  with em ployees on pla n
elements.  Mr. Feiman stated the company’s proposal was submitted per the guidelines requested by the
City, and indicated he could provide examples of savings the firm had provided for other clients in the
region.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Wiederspahn advised the insurance committee and staff are working on an
alternative employee wellness program which would be voluntary for participation.  Dr. Rinne moved to
postpone to December 8, 2014, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” --
Ms. Broyles, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Allen, Mr.
Brown, Mr. Luna and Mr . Valdez.  Upon inquiry  from Mayor Kaysen for clarification purposes, Mr.
Wiederspahn a nd Patti Garule, Human Resour ces of fice, provided brie f informa tion reg arding the
insurance committee’s involvement regarding the RFP.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County, Wyoming, for
reimbursement of dual-commissioned Juvenile Diversion Officer’s salary (revenue to City).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6265)  [City Clerk’s note: Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint
Powers Board is also a contract participant.]
[CA] Contract Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and  Laramie
County School District No. 1 to provide Community Counseling and Intervention Services -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Cooperative A greement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd t he W yoming De partment of
Transportation for epoxy striping (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 6041 betwe en the City  of Chey enne, Parks and
Recreation D epartment, a nd A P W yoming, LLC, f or a n O wner a nd C onstruction M anager A t R isk
(CMAR) Guaranteed Maximum Price Ag reement for una nticipated scope of ser vices changes for the
Municipal Pool Renovation and Expansion Project (1% Sales & Use Tax Overage funds, Menard property
sale proceeds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Cont ract No. 6162 betwee n the City of Cheyenne, Information
Technology Division, and CenturyLink, Casper, Wyoming, for additional connections to the Enterprise
Metropolitan Ethernet Wide Area  Network System in conjunction with the new tele phone system --
referred to Finance Committee.
Consideration of Bid #M-6-15 for crushing concrete at the Happy Jack Landfill.  Mr. Brown moved
to reject all bids, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-14-15 for furnishing and installing miscellaneous police car equipment
for the Police Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
bid from Wireless Advanced Communications, Evans, Colorado, in an amount not to exceed $81,188.56).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-8-15 for furnishing one to three medium/heavy duty, body on chassis, low
floor buses with wheel chair accessibility for the City of Cheyenne, Transit  Division (Federal Grant, local
match).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Lewis Bus Group, North Salt Lake City,
Utah, in an amount not to exceed $237,374.30).
[CA] Bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for JSKB, Inc. d/b/a
Pizzeria Venti, 112 East 17  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.th
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Loveless Investments
LLC d/b/a Camille’s Gumbo House, 1617 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Appointments of Landon Brown, Philip J. Griggs and Kenneth C. Uhrich, to the City Planning
Commission, and Stefanie Boster, Michael Hofmeister and Kevin L. Schaiger to the Board of Adjustment.
Ms. Williams moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at the
January 21, 2015 Wy oming Association of Munici palities Business  Meeting .  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) car ried (Ma yor Richar d L . Kaysen, Off icial Voting  Deleg ate; City  Clerk Carol I ntlekofer,
Alternate Delegate).
[CA] Consideration to purchase nine Motorola radios for new police vehicles for the Cheyenne Police
Department from Absolute Solutions, Cheyenne, Wyoming  (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 8, 2014 at 6:00 P.M. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Ne il Avenue, Chey enne, Wyoming, to dete rmine whether compliance of
annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated in the S½ of Lot
4, Williams Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at 812 Storey Boulevard).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 8, 2014 at 6:00 P.M. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance of
annexation conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated in a portion of
Tracts 1 & 7 and all of Tracts 26 & 27, Dell Range Addition; Lots 1 & 2 of Smithson View, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located between Ridge Road and College Drive along Thomas Road).
Announcement was made of a Public Meeting to be held Monday, December 8, 2014 at 6:00 P.M.
in  City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the purpose of receiving public
comment on the submission of a 5307 Federal Grant to fund transportation services by Cheyenne Transit
for Fiscal Year 2015. 
Announcement was made of the  Re-Appointment of Kevin Paintner to the Chey enne Regional
Airport Board, to be confirmed December 8, 2014. 
Under other business:
Due to timeliness involving the pr oject, a Contract Agreement between the City of Cheyenne,
Parks and Recreation Department, and Public Restroom Company, Minden, Nevada for the provision and
installation of a restroom facility for Romero Park (Community Development Block Grant Funds) was
introduced and referred to Finance Committee.
Mr. Shanor inquired about the status of the Planning and Development office changes pursuant to
the recent resolution adopted in which the development office would be structured as a department, and
requested, pursuant to a recent City Council work session (re: Capital Improvement Plan presentation),
whether staff could internally conduct an impact study regarding regional fees in lieu of a potential change
order.  Mayor Kaysen advised discussions are in progress regarding the Development department relative
to budget coordination, and that the impact study topic had been taken under advisement after the work
session and discussions are continuing.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 7:54  p.m. 
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 4, 2014 