MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-12-08 | CLIP_ID: 457 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 457

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
December 8, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Shanor and Dr. Rinne, agenda item #19 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Ms. Williams
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 24, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 Mr. Valdez  moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Shanor.
Upon inquiry, Lois Huff, City  Treasurer, provided infor mation regarding vouchers payable to:
Lincoln Financial Groups (pa yroll deduction payments for e mployees who have pur chased life
insurance); Employers Council Services, Inc. (services for investigating certain personnel issues);
Evergreen Lawn and Tree Care, Inc. (tree removal/pruning assistance for a qualifying individual
under the Community Development Block Grant HOME program), and Paddle Wheeler (purchase
of paddle boats (Lions Park) involving L aramie County Recreation Board grant funds).  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mayor Kaysen opened a pu blic hearing to de termine whether compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated in the S½ of Lot 4,
Williams Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at 812 Storey Boulevard).  Josh Tetzlaff,
Planning a nd Deve lopment office , advised the pr oposed annexation is pursuant to a petition
requesting annexation submitted by the property owner; briefly reviewed the area to be annexed, and
stated that requirements and compliance of annexation conditions contained in state statutes had
been met.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met,
Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a publi c hearing  to determine w hether compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyo. Stat. §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land situated in a portion of Tracts
1 & 7 and all of Tracts 26 & 27, Dell Range Addition; Lots 1 &  2 o f Smithson View, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located between Ridge Road and College Drive along Thomas Road).  Josh
Tetzlaff, Planning and Development office, advised the proposed annexation is pursuant to a petition
requesting annexation submitted by the property owners; briefly reviewed the area to be annexed,
and stated that requirements and compliance of annexation conditions contained in state statutes had
been met.  Mr. Tetzlaff noted a zone change and platting actions are in process.  Kay McAdams
questioned whether Lot 5, Block 8 would be included in the area to be annexed and applicability of
a proposed zone change to AR (Agricultural Residential) for the lot.  Mr. Tetzlaff verified the lot was
included in the propose d annexation are a and  Jim Flesher , Planning a nd Deve lopment office ,
confirmed an AR zone is a C ity zone classification.  Mayor Kaysen advised agenda item no. 16
pertains to the zone change proposed for the property.  D. J. Perrott Macneil commented generally
in opposition to annexations an d zone changes involving privately leased lands and submitted a
handout (on file with City Clerk’s office) in conjunction with his statements.  Mr. Brown raised a
point of order that Mr. Macneil’s comments were not specific to the property involving the public
hearing with Mayor Kaysen requesting Mr. Macneil to summarize his comments as related to the
topic on the floor.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been
met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public meeting for the purpose of receiving public comment on the
submission of a 5307 Federal Grant to fund transportation services by Cheyenne Transit for Fiscal
Year 2015.   Joe Dougherty, Transit Director, provided information regarding the grant submission
requesting $1,542,855 in F ederal assistance  for c apital equipmen t, maintenance and ope rating
expenses, and funds received from other sources for a gross project total of $2,554,151.  In addition,
Mr. Dougherty briefly reviewed transit services provided throughout the past year and, upon inquiry,
advised of anticipated FY2016 budget funding requests for new buses and capital expenditures,
indicating the program is subsidized by the general fund in the approximate amount of $400,000-
$500,000.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met,
Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section, 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from AG Agricultural to HI Heavy Industrial for Lot 1 &
Lot 2, Block 1 of Plains Industrial Park, 2  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwestnd
corner of the intersection of Campstool Road and HR Ranch Road).  Reporting for Public Services
Committee, Mr. Sha nor moved to approve  on third and final r eading with the condition that
information r elating to D EQ tr ansportation r egulations a nd ind ustry sta ndards b e su bmitted to
members of the g overning body by the deve loper prior to the Dec ember 8, 2014 meeting  of the
governing body, seconded by Mr. L una.  I t was noted that since  the Commit tee mee ting, the
condition had been met by the developer.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of  the
governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.  (#4047)
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 10.32.030, Decreasing State Speed Limits in Ce rtain
Zones, and a mending the attac hed S chedule A-2, of Cha pter 10.32, Spee d Limits, of Title 10,
Vehicles and Tra ffic, of the Code of the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming.  Er nie Valdez expressed
concerns with the speed limits around Goins Elementary school, stating his belief that the limits need
to be reduced and flashing lights should be installed around the school for safety purposes.  Mr.
Shanor moved to appr ove on sec ond reading, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Upon inquiry , Rob
Geringer, City Engineer, reviewed language contained in the existing ordinance and Schedule A-2
that includes wording indicating the 25 mph speed limit i s effective in areas when properly sign-
posted, and explained that since that ordinance change was approved (2004) an issue was ra ised
regarding signage and where it had to be posted.  He stated by striking out the wording, pursuant to
the proposed ordinance, signage could be posted in the same locations as the handheld cellphone
ordinance notification signs (i.e. entry streets into the City) indicating the speed limit on local streets
is 25 mph unless otherwise posted.  He explained this would assist with enforcement efforts, which
is the overall intent of the proposed amendment.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Geringer and Captain Mitch
Maxwell, Police Department, described public education efforts and related officer enforcement plan
that will be made to advise the public of the City-wide change if the ordinance is approved.  Mr.
Geringer, in response to inquiry, also provided information generally on the street map adopted by
the City relative to residential vs. collector and/or arterial streets.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of the NW1/4 of
Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as The Bluffs, 10th th
Filing Annexation (located between Converse Avenue and Crestridge Drive, north of Foothills
Road).  Mr. Shanor  moved to approve  on second r eading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 13.12, Sewer System, of Title 13, Public Services, of the
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, by revising Section 13.12.030, Deposit of Excrement,
Garbage or O bjectionable Waste Prohibited, and a dding Sec tion 13.12.195, Unauthorized and
Prohibited Discharges.  Clint Bassett, Board of Public Utilities, briefly reviewed the intent of the
ordinance, which is to inform  c ustomers of items that cause  obstructions, damag es and se wer
backups if discharged into the sewer system.   He noted the ordinance will also protect employees
and water treatment processes.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Bassett stated applicable sections in the ordinance will assist in
identifying violators, and that customers will be informed of the items that may damage the system.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the S1/2 of Lot 4, Williams
Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at 812 Storey Boulevard) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from Conditional MUB Mixed-Use Business (Ordinances #3891
& #3919) to MUR Mixed-Use Residential for Lots 1, 2, and the north 66 feet of Lots 3 and 4, Block
195, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of East
23  Street and Russell Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).rd
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing t he z oning cl assification fr om HR  Hi gh De nsity R esidential (C ounty) t o HR -2 Hi gh
Density Residential-Developing for a r eplat of por tions of Trac ts 245, 246, 247, and 248, and a
portion of the va cated east ha lf of Ar thur Road, Sunny side Addition, 6th Filing, Chey enne,
Wyoming, to be known as Carter Cottages (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of
Hayes Avenue and U S H ighway 30) --  referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor --  Mr.
Shanor).
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of Tracts 1 and 7
and all of Tracts 26 and 27, Dell Range Addition; Lots 1 and 2, Smithson View, Laramie County,
Wyoming, to be known as Thomas Heights Annexation (located between Ridge Road and College
Drive along Thomas Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from A-1 (County), Agricultural and Rural Residential, to AR,
Agricultural Residential, for Lot 5, Block 8, Thomas Heights, and from A-1 (County), Agricultural
and Rur al Re sidential, a nd AR  (C ounty) A gricultural Re sidential, t o M R-2, Me dium-Density
Residential-Developing, for the r emainder of Thomas Heig hts, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located
between R idge Road and Colleg e Dr ive along  Thomas Road) - - re ferred to Public Service s
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
After the next agenda item title was read into the record, Mayor Kaysen explained, for benefit
of the public in attendance, the above ordinances introduced on first reading were referral items to
the Public Services Committee and the Committee would meet to discuss them at its next meeting
on December 16, 2014 at Noon in Room 122.
RESOLUTION - An exception to the “201 Agreement” to allow a septic permit for a small
wastewater treatment system for a  residential pr operty for the south 1/2 of Tr acts 105 & 106,
Sunnyside Addition, 4th Filing, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located at the northea st corner  of the
intersection of Monroe Ave nue and Cha rles Stree t).  Cooper Ove rstreet, The Kuke r Group,
representing the property owners, reviewed the history of the property that had been annexed into
the City based upon the owners’ belief that City water and sewer services were available near the
property.  Subsequently, he advised, it was discovered that sewer and water lines were not in the
vicinity, therefore, the owners submitted an application for a septic permit as an exception to the
“201 Agreement” to allow for any needed repairs to their system.  He stated the Health Department
denied the permit and if the governing body does not approve the exception, the property owners will
pursue de-annexation of the prope rty.  Roy  Kroeger, City/County Environmental Health office,
provided information and reviewed reasons for denial of the permit request.  Mr. Shanor reported
there was no recommendation on the item from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Shanor moved to
adopt, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Discussion followed on the “201 Agreement”, which does not allow
the City to grant an exception for properties within the City;  circumstances involving the subject
property, and possibility of de-annexing the property.  Motion failed.  Voting “no” -- all members
of the governing body.
 [CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to lease, with an option to
purchase, sanitation, recycling, and landfill equipment (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5631)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sell a tract of land owned by the
City of Cheyenne, located at 206 West Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and having an appraised
value of seventy thousand dollars ($70,000.00), to the Children’s Museum of Cheyenne, a Wyoming
Corporation, subject to the payment of  the pu rchase price of one hundred dollars ($100.00), and
subject to the terms and c onditions of the Project Deve lopment and Administration Ag reement
entered into by the City of Cheyenne and the Children’s Museum of Cheyenne dated October 6, 2014
(City Contract # 6242).  Amy Surdam, Board President, Children’s Museum, explained the mission
of the Children’s Muse um and its project inv olving the building of  a lea rning and educ ational
children’s museum, and its relationship with downtown redevelopment.  She noted the importance
of acquiring the property to move forward with the project and fund-raising and grant opportunities;
advised of the  status of conc eptual and sc hematic building  desig ns, and commented on
communications involving the Hynds Building as an adjacent property.  Jim Weaver, #1 Properties,
speaking on behalf of the owner (Outback Investments, LLC) of the Hynds Building, commented
in support of the Children’s Museum project generally but requested a two week postponement of
the agenda item to allow further discussions between the Children’s Museum and Hynds Building
owner regarding a possible memorandum of understanding relative to joint utilization of corridor
space which would be of benefit to both owners.  Ms. Surdam spoke in opposition to postponement
due to its effect on the Museum’s ability to apply for a National Endowment for the Arts grant by
the grant deadline, and other pending grant and donation opportunities based upon ownership of the
property.  Pat Crank, attorney representing the Children’s Museum, referenced and commented on
a re cent le tter t hat ha d b een is sued b y the  ow ner o f t he Hynds B uilding ind icating int erest i n
acquiring the City’s property for the appraised value; r eviewed past communication ef forts the
Museum has made with the owner of the Hynds Building; advised they are willing to sit down with
Outback Investments to work on issues, and spoke  in oppositi on to postp oning action on the
resolution.  Mr. Weaver  provided re asons for O utback’s offer to purcha se the prope rty, and the
necessity for an agreement with whomever may own the 22 ft. of property. Reporting for Finance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Shanor  moved to amend by
adding the following “Whereas” clause to the resolution, seconded by Mr. Allen:  “Whereas, this
body explicitly finds that the sale of the specified land at less than appraised value will promote
economic development in Cheyenne in a  variety of ways.”  To m Johnson, Wyoming Business
Council, advised the Museum’s pr oposed building pr oject i s consistent with simi lar ty pes of
economic development projects and that a study and analysis had been done relative to direct and
indirect economic development benefits.  He stated the B usiness Council would consider a g rant
request from the Museum with or without “Hynds involvement”, and noted that the Attorney General
has provided [legal] guidance on similar past projects.  In response to query by Mr. Weaver, Mr.
Johnson advised the economic study did not include the Hynds building.  Discussion on the proposed
amendment followed with Mr. Weaver providing information in response to questions involving
current use of a  portio n of the Hy nds building, plans for  rede velopment of the building , and
relationship of a joint corridor between the Hynds and future Museum building.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Discussion on the main motion, as
amended, included the following topics: Wording contained in City Contract #6242 regarding an
Attorney General’s opinion; Hynds building owner concerns; National Endowment for the Arts grant
deadline, Children’s Museum project as a downtown asset, and grant involvement by the City.
During discussion and upon inquiry, Mr. Crank stated his interpretation of City Contract wording
regarding an Attorney General’s opinion, and related state laws; Mr. Weaver expressed that if the
property ownership is transferr ed and th e City is no longe r involved there  is a conc ern that the
incentive in reaching an agreement (re: joint corridor) will be lessened, and Ms. Surdam provided
information on the Arts grant deadline.  Main motion, as amended, carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Brown voting “no”. (#5632)
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Acknowledging the initiation and development of the Cheyenne Historic
Façade Improvement Program for Downtown Cheyenne.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5633)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Acknowledging receipt of the Cheyenne Cemetery Arboretum Master Plan
Report and Appendices, dated September 15, 2014, prepared by Robert Peccia and Associates.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5634)
RESOLUTION - Establishing guidelines for the maximum amount of excess revenue that
may be collected for the operation of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fund.  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming
Liberty Group, sta ted th e resolution po ses a  ph ilosophical de cision on  the  iss ue of  wh ether t o
continue to rely on sanitation fees to fund other City operations, noting limited revenue sources for
the City and elements of an enterprise fund.  Ed Strader and Ed Melko commented in support of the
resolution, noting f unding needs for the landfill and the ne ed for the City  to find other revenue
sources or reduce expenditures.  Mr. Melko’s comments included reference to the use of a portion
of sanitation set-aside funds to purchase the Belvoir Ranch potentially to utilize as a new landfill site,
and suggesting the ranch, or portion thereof, be sold to raise funds.  Donald James Perrott Macneil
expressed his belief that the City does not own the Belvoir Ranch.  During Mr. Macneil’s comments,
Mr. Brown raised a point of order that comments were not applicable to the resolution topic with
Mayor Kaysen advising Mr. Mac neil that his statements neede d to stay  on subject.  Mr. B rown
reported there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Shanor moved
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Comment followed on the results of the recent sanitation study and
affiliated projected fee increases; amount of funds transferred to the general fund, and purpose of the
resolution.  Ms. Broyles moved to amend the 5th line of the last paragraph of the resolution that
begins with “Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved” by striking “five percent (5%)” and replacing it with
“nine percent (9%)”, and stated the rest of the paragraph would remain unchanged and if a second
to her motion is received she would like to explain the reasoning for the amendment.  Mr. Shanor
seconded the motion to amend.  Ms. Broyles explained her reasons for proposing the amendment.
Mr. Strader  spoke in opposition to t he ame ndment, and Mr. Melko questioned the impact on
sanitation rate increases based upon the proposed amendment.  Discussion included the following
topics: Retaining money in the sanitation fund; keeping sanitation rate increases at minimal amounts;
future effect of the percentage change proposed in the amendment, and whether the general fund will
be jeopardized.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advised it was hard to determine the impact on the
general fund as the next fiscal year budget has not yet been prepared or submitted to the governing
body.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr.
Luna, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Dr. Rinne, Mr. Va ldez and Mayor Kaysen.
Discussion on the main motion, as amended, included the following topics: Justifying rate increases;
future e ffect of the re solution; City  opera tions and service s that do not ge nerate re venue a nd
resolution effect on various departments and operations; potential future changes to the resolution
if needed; concern with limiting the amount of funds tha t can be  transferred; interpretation of
wording in the “Now, T herefore, Be It Resolved” cla use of the r esolution, as amende d; binding
future City Council members with provisions of the resolution; boom and bust revenue cycles;
potentially cutting non- essential services to make  up the funding  difference to the g eneral fund;
implementing parameters for the administration prior to preparation of the next budget, and use of
sanitation fees for the general fund.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen indicated, to t he best of his
knowledge, the practice of using sanitation fees to meet obligations for City-wide services has been
in place for decades, and that utilization of fees for that purpose is not an unc ommon practice by
other cities.  Main motion, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook,
Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne and
Mayor Kaysen. (#5635)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing t he filing of an application w ith the  F ederal Transit
Administration, an Operating Administration of the United States Department of Transportation, for
Federal Transportation Assistance authorized by  Title 49, United States Code, S ection 5307 --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd City  Cle rk to execute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government grant agreement for attendance at the 2015 Saving
Places Conference -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropr iating the Fiscal Year 2015 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- r eferred to Financ e Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has approved
an a pplication t o b e submitted b y t he B oard o f C ounty C ommissioners o f L aramie C ounty,
Wyoming, to the State Loan and Investment Board for 2015 - 2016 Countywide Consensus Block
Grant Funding for the replacement of the roof of the Laramie County Historic Courthouse -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has approved
an application to be submitted on behalf of the Town of Pine Bluffs to the State Loan and Investment
Board for 2013 - 2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding for the Pine Bluffs Veterans
Memorial Project -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor to issue a letter setting forth the City’s informal
commitments regarding a housing assessment to be conducted by the Wyoming Rural Development
Council in conjunction with the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Assured E quity
Management Corpora tion for he alth insurance  consulting se rvices (Continge ncy Funds a nd
Unrestricted Reserves).  Josh Feinman, Vice-President, Assured Equity Management Corporation,
provided a  detailed r eview of  the vari ous types of se rvices that would be provided unde r the
agreement in response to the RF P (Request For  Proposals) the City  had issu ed, and noted
information on examples of  similar services provided by Assured Equity for other clients, as
requested, had been submitted.  Mr. Brown reported there was no recommendation on the item from
Finance Committee.  Ms. Broyles moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Discussion topics
included: whether in-house staff could provide the services; concern with the cost of services to be
provided unde r the one -year ag reement; ag reement term;  health plan c hanges re lated to the
Affordable Care Act; potentially revising the RFP to “downsize” services requested to reduce the
City’s cost, and othe r RFP re sponses rec eived.  Dur ing disc ussion and  upon inquiry , Rich
Wiederspahn, Human Resources Director, clarified the agreement is for professional services and
is not a study; explained in-house City staff are not medical insurance experts, noting other large
organizations have consultant assistance for these areas, and provided information on the RFP
process that was utilized.  He  revie wed RF P proposals rec eived, inter views conduc ted and
recommendation of Assured Equity by  members of the review committee, whose recommendation
was based upon the belief that Assured Equity could meet all elements of the RFP and was not based
upon the price proposed for services.  Motion to approve failed (due to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” --
Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr.
Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Ms. Williams.
 [CA] Contract Ag reement between the City of Chey enne, O ffice of Youth Alterna tives, and
Laramie County School District No. 1 to provide Community Counseling and Intervention Services.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6266)
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for epoxy striping (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(in the amount of $104,194.00). (#6267)
Contract Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and
Public Restroom Company, Minden, Nevada for the provision and installation of a restroom facility
for Romero Park (Community Development Block Grant Funds).  Motion (per C onsent Agenda)
carried (in an amount not to exceed $157,709.00). (#6268)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives; Laramie County Community
Juvenile Services Joint  Powers B oard, a nd L aramie County , Wy oming, f or the provision of
screening, counseling and supportive services to youth referred to the Juvenile Services Center Crisis
Shelter -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 6041 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and AP Wyoming, LLC, for an Owner and Construction Manager At Risk
(CMAR) Guaranteed Maximum Price Agreement for unanticipated scope of services changes for
the Municipal Pool Renovation and Expansion Project (1% Sales & Use Tax Overage funds, Menard
property sale proc eeds).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (in a n amount not to ex ceed
$68,003.00). (#6041)
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1  to Contract No. 6162 be tween the  City  of Chey enne,
Information Technology Division, and CenturyLink, Casper, Wyoming, for additional connections
to the Enterprise Metropolitan Ethernet Wide Area Network System in conjunction with the new
telephone system.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $43,440.00).
(#6162)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contr act No . 6 151 b etween t he C ity of Cheyenne,
Engineering Department, and Short Elliott Hendrickson, I nc., for the 19th Street Rehabilitation
Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, BOPU Funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Authorization to purchase traffic striping paint and beads under Wyoming Department of
Transportation Bid #14-335AA and #14-336AA (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-7-15 for a contra ct between the City  of Chey enne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Kolbe Striping, Inc., Castle Rock, Colorado, for the On-Street Bicycle
Striping and Signage Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax, Misc. Grant Funds) -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-9-15 for  a contr act be tween the  City  of Chey enne, F orestry
Division, and Western Tree Care, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the City of Cheyenne Cemetery
Complex Tree Removal project -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M -10-15 fo r a  c ontract be tween th e City of  Che yenne, Landfill
Division, and J-2 Contracting Company, Greeley, Colorado, for crushing concrete at the Happy Jack
Landfill (Solid Waste Management) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Re-Appointment of Kevin Paintner to the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board.  Mr. Shanor
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body  with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee). 
[CA] Consideration  to purchase nine Motorola radios for new police vehicles for the Cheyenne
Police Department from Absolute Solutions, Chey enne, Wyoming (2011 - 2014 1%  Sales Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $35,662.50).
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Paul M. Frauendienst to the Building
Code Board of Appeals, Mark C. Hardee to the Fire Civil Service Commission, and Tony Adams
to the Personnel Commission, to be confirmed December 22, 2014. 
Under other business, Andy Austin expressed concerns regarding the fee assessed to residents
for parking permits associated with the recently approved Residential Critical Traffic and Parking
Area in the vicinity of the Cheyenne Regional Medical Center.  He expressed appreciation for the
City taking action to designate the area but noted his frustration with having to pay for a permit(s)
and suggested at least one permit be allowed at no charge.  Brief discussion followed on permit fee
requirements per the Critical Traffic and Parking Area ordinance, and possible modification to the
ordinance and potential effect on other Critical Traffic and Parking Areas that have been approved
in the past re lative to annual par king permits.  During  discussion Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk,
confirmed that ag enda doc umentation submitt ed with the applica tion for g overning body
consideration to establish the area included a copy of the Critical Traffic and Parking Area ordinance
(i.e. City Code) and that the application form requesting the area contains a requirement that the
applicant must notify affected residents of the parking permit requirement.
There being  no fur ther business to come be fore the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 9:29 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 19, 2014