MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2014-12-22 | CLIP_ID: 461 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 461

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
December 22, 2014
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook (arriving at 6:13 p.m.), Mr. Luna, Dr.
Rinne, Mr. Shanor (a rriving at 6:03 p.m.), Mr. Va ldez and Ms. Wi lliams.  Also present: Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk; Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledg e of
allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed  from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Allen, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Brown and Mr. Luna, agenda item #18 was re moved from the Consent Ag enda.  Mr. Allen
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. [Mr. Shanor joined the meeting in
progress]
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 8, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Co uncil Chambers.  Mr. V aldez moved to approve  payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Allen.  Upon inquiry, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, provided
information available regarding vouchers payable to Action Ads, Inc. (Transit program business card
holders a nd c oin p urses) a nd A ll T raffic D ata Se rvices, I nc. ( traffic c ounts f or M etropolitan
Transportation Organization (MPO)).  Pr oviding additional information on the voucher s under
discussion were Joe Dougherty, Cheyenne Transit Program Director, explaining that the purchases
from Action Ads were for program marketing and passenger use purposes, and Mayor Kaysen, who
advised traffic counts for the MPO were conducted at various locations throughout the community.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 10.32.030, Decreasing State Speed Limits in Certain
Zones, and a mending the attac hed Schedule A-2, of Cha pter 10.32, Spee d Limits, of Title 10,
Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services
Committee, Mr. Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4048)
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of the NW1/4 of
Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as The Bluffs, 10th th
Filing Annexation (located between Converse Avenue and Crestridge Drive, north of Foothills
Road).  Frank Cole, President, United Western Corporation, requested the item be postponed for five
weeks to allow for synchronizing of timing for the affiliated final plat and re-zoning actions.  Mr.
Allen moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Allen moved
to postpone the item to January 12, 2015, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Mayor Kaysen advised the usual
practice of the governing body is to not postpone an item for more than two weeks at a time (or until
the next regularly scheduled meeting).  Comment was made regarding a map edit change that should
be made prior to final re ading.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.
[Mr. Cook joined the meeting in progress]  ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 13.12, Sewer
System, of Title 13, Public Services, of the  Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, by revising
Section 13.12.030, Deposit of Excrement, Garbage or Objectionable Waste Prohibited, and adding
Section 13.12.195, Unauthorized and Prohibited Discharges.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on third
and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. (#4049)
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the S1/2 of Lot 4, Williams
Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at 812 Storey Boulevard).  Mr. Allen moved to
approve on  se cond r eading, s econded b y Ms.  Willi ams.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll
members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from Conditional MUB Mixed-Use Business (Ordinances #3891
& #3919) to MUR Mixed-Use Residential for Lots 1, 2, and the north 66 feet of Lots 3 and 4, Block
195, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of East
23  Street and Russell Avenue).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms.rd
Williams.  Mr. Allen moved to amend Section 4 by replacing “MUB Mixed-Use Business” with
“MUR-Mixed Use Residential”, seconded by Mr. Cook.  It was noted the amendment is to correct
a typographical error.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing t he z oning cl assification fr om HR  Hi gh De nsity R esidential (C ounty) t o HR -2 Hi gh
Density Residential-Developing for a re plat of portions of Tra cts 245, 246, 247, and 248, a nd a
portion of the vacated east half of Arthur Road, Sunnyside Addition, 6th Filing, C heyenne,
Wyoming, to be known as Carter Cottages (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of
Hayes Avenue and US Highway 30).  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by
Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of Tracts 1 and 7
and all of Tracts 26 and 27, Dell Range Addition; Lots 1 and 2, Smithson View, Laramie County,
Wyoming, to be known as Thomas Heights Annexation (located between Ridge Road and College
Drive along Thomas Road).  Speaking in opposition to annexation and the affiliated re-zoning and
final plat as pr oposed we re B rien McAd ams, Gail Sundell, Kay  McAda ms and Rob Courtier.
Concerns expressed included: Planning for sidewalks along North College Drive; property setbacks;
traffic flow and safety; ingress/egress into the proposed residential subdivision to be built; reasonable
measures to contain construction debris; proposed zoning classification for Lot 5, Block 8; effect of
the housing development on aesthetic views; Unified Development Code requirements allowing for
a cash-in-lieu payment by the deve loper vs. providing  open g reen space or a pa rk; quantity of
residential lots to be built; pump st ation location; water  levels in the ar ea and drainage run-off;
opposition to development in the area generally; planning for quality developments and responsible
growth; appropriate buffers, and balancing growth between city and county boundaries.  Speaking
in favor of annexation and the proposed residential development project generally were:  Jerry Ciz;
Joe Patterson, President, Southeast Wyoming Homebuilders Association, and Jamie Ciz .  Topics
discussed included: Need for additional residential housing in the community; current number of
buildable lots available within the City and local housing market; developer (Guardian Homes) plans
and conc essions made for  the subdivision, and are a g rowth, includi ng other re cent r esidential
subdivisions that have been developed expanding City limits.  Upon inquiry during comments, Brad
Emmons, AVI, agen t for the applicant (G uardian Homes), pr ovided information on deve loper
concessions for the project and changes that have been made since the initial proposal.  Mr. Allen
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Discussion included the request
for annexation that was submitted by the property owners and conditions for annexation that have
been met, and i nformation on the Sny der Plaza deve lopment topic that had bee n raised dur ing
speaker comments.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from A-1 (County), Agricultural and Rural Residential, to AR,
Agricultural Residential, for Lot 5, Block 8, Thomas Heights, and from A-1 (County), Agricultural
and Rur al Re sidential, a nd AR  (C ounty) A gricultural Re sidential, t o M R-2, Me dium-Density
Residential-Developing, for the r emainder of Thomas He ights, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located
between Ridge  Road and College Dr ive along  Thomas Road).  Spea king in opposition to the
ordinance were: Brien McAdams, Kay McAdams and Rob C ourtier.  T opics included: Specific
opposition to the proposed zoning classification for Lot 5, Block 8 and rationale in proposing an AR
zone for the lot; allowable uses in an AR zone, and concerns with zoning laws and encroachment.
Upon inquiry during comments, Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for the applicant, explained why the
property owners of Lot 5, Block 8 r equested an AR zone classification for the lot, and Br andon
Cammarata, Planning a nd Deve lopment Direc tor, provided infor mation conce rning L ot 5 and
allowable uses within an AR zone.  Mr. Allen moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Di scussion to pics in cluded: D efinition of  the t erm “limited a griculture” re lative to
interpretation of the Unified Development Code and allowable uses.  During comment regarding
maintenance responsibility of a sidewalk if same were to be built on the east side of the development
project (adjacent to North College Road), Mr. Allen raised a point of order that the inquiry was not
applicable to the motion on the floor (i.e. zoning topic) and was more applicable to discussion on
the plat.  May or Kaysen concurred and re quested comments rema in on topic.  Motion carrie d.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Mayor Kaysen advised the ordinance would be
discussed again at the next Public Services Committee meeting, which will meet January 7, 2015
at noon in Room 122, Municipal Building.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the filing of an application w ith the  F ederal Transit
Administration, an Operating Administration of the United States Department of Transportation, for
Federal Transportation Assistance authorized by Title 49, United States Code, Section 5307.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5636)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd City  Clerk to e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government grant agreement for attendance at the 2015 Saving
Places Conference.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5637)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5638)
RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fisca l Year 2015 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Sara Vasquez, President, Cheyenne
Public Employees Association, and Jon Bertsch, President, International Association of Firefighters
Local #279, commented in support of the one-time employee recognition payment included in the
re-appropriation, a nd e xpressed appreciation to  me mbers of  the  g overning bo dy fo r t heir
consideration of the payment.  Re porting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to adopt,
seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Discussion included the following topics: Timing of discussions by the
administration involving the proposed employee recognition payment; mixed message involving the
payment and recent comments involving possible lay-offs; payment to be taken from reserves where
prior year budget savings were placed; status of the Employee Investment Study (EIS) and pending
court decision; suggestion that a merit-based employee reward program be considered; employee
recognition and the need to achieve median market salary value for positions; providing for funding
of e mployee sa lary re cognitions d uring the budget pr ocess, a nd the  po sitive c urrent e conomic
environment.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Vasquez reviewed the timeframe when the employee payment was
last discussed by the CPEA Board, and her recollection that initial discussion on the funds being set
aside for the payment was in August, prior to recent discussions concerning possible lay-offs.  In
response to queries, Mayor Kaysen advised approximately $1.2 million in budget savings, which had
been placed in reserves, was achieved through employee efforts to curtail expenditures for FY2013-
2014; noted the savings were not intended to go toward implementation of the EIS plan but the intent
is to provide employee recognition of efforts toward limiting expenditures during the last budget
year; reviewed discussions held and a nalysis of the budget conducted resulting in the propose d
payment in an estimated total amou nt of $325,000 fr om unencumber ed budg et re serves, and
explained the criteria employees must meet to receive the maximum payment amount of $500.  Upon
inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, provided an update on the EIS, stating the lawsuit that had been
filed by the Wyoming Tribune-Eagle is still pending and that attorneys for both sides had submitted
additional briefs in November as ordered by the District Court Judge.  During comment regarding
why the EIS was still i n litigation, Mr. B rown raised a point of orde r that the EIS study was not
related to the proposed resolution.  Mayor Kaysen concurred with the point of order with Mr. Shanor
voicing his objection to sustaining the point of order.  Mayor Kaysen stated status of the EIS is under
the control of the court, and, upon inquiry, provided information on the rationale for the employee
recognition payment and his views of a merit-based employee program.  Discussion continued on
the re cognition pay ment, rec ent discussions invol ving future budg et funding  conce rns, and
suggestion of developing a merit-based employee reward program.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body. (#5639)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has approved
an application to be submitted by the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie C ounty,
Wyoming, to the State Loan and Investment Board for 2015 - 2016 Countywide Consensus Block
Grant Funding for the replacement of the roof of the Laramie County Historic Courthouse.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5640)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has approved
an application to be submitted on behalf of the Town of Pine Bluffs to the State Loan and Investment
Board for 2013 - 2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding for the Pine Bluffs Veterans
Memorial Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5641)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor to issue a letter  setting forth the City’s informal
commitments regarding a housing assessment to be conducted by the Wyoming Rural Development
Council in conjunction with the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5642)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Water and Sanitary Sewer Services, by  Outside User’s
Agreement, with Cheyenne Rail Hub, LLC, for portions of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 27 and the
Northeast 1/4 of Section 28, T13N, R67W o f the 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred toth
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Carter
Cottages, a replat of portions of Tracts 245, 246, 247, and 248 and a portion of the vacated east half
of Arthur Road, Sunnyside Addition, 6  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest cornerth
of the intersection of Hayes Avenue and US Highway 30) -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Thomas
Heights, a replat of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Smithson View, Tracts 26 and 27, and a portion of Tracts 1 and
7, Dell Range Addition, 2  Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Ridgend
Road and College Drive, south of Summit Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor
-- Mr. Shanor).
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives; Laramie County Community
Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board, and Laramie County, Wyoming, for the provision of
screening, counseling and supportive services to youth referred to the Juvenile Services Center Crisis
Shelter.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6269)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Urban Planning Office, and
Ayres Associates for Brownfield Revolving Loan Fund Implementation (Environmental Protection
Agency Brownfield Revolving Loan Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
  
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization
and A.V.I., p.c., for the High Plains Road 35% Design Plan (MPO Planning funds) -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Juvenile Accountability B lock G rant C ontract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne, Y outh
Alternatives, and the State of Wyoming, Department of Family Services, for funding of Municipal
Juvenile Court staffing and services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Mod ification No. 2 to Contract No. 6151 between the City  of Cheyenne,
Engineering Department, and Short Elliott H endrickson, Inc., for the 19th Street Rehabilitation
Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, BOPU Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $4,419.50). (#6151)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 4 to Contract No. 6041 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and AP Wyoming, LLC, to reduce held retention from 10% to 5%  on the
entire Municipal Pool and Expansion Project as allowed by W.S. §16-6-702 (1% Specific Purpose
Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Amendments No. 1 to City  Contracts No. 6137, 6134 a nd 6135 betwee n the City  of
Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Reiman Corp. and Subsidiary; Laramie County,
Wyoming, a nd WC  I nvestments, I nc., re spectively, rel ating to the Polk Avenue Projec t and
pertaining to reimbursements to be pa id to the Cit y of Chey enne f or portions of the c osts of
construction of the Polk Avenue Project -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Authorization to purchase traffic striping paint and beads under Wyoming Department of
Transportation Bid #14-335AA and #14-336AA (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $46,479.20).
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-7-15 for  a contract be tween the City of Chey enne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Kolbe Striping, Inc., Castle Rock, Colorado, for the On-Street Bicycle
Striping and Signage Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax, Misc. Grant Funds).  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $156,560.38). (#6270)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-9-15  for a  contra ct betwe en the City  of Chey enne, F orestry
Division, and Western Tree Care, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the City of Cheyenne Cemetery
Complex Tree Removal projec t.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (amount not to ex ceed
$50,600.00). (#6271)
[CA] Consideration o f B id # M-10-15 f or a  c ontract be tween th e City of Cheyenne, Landfill
Division, and J-2 Contracting Company, Greeley, Colorado, for crushing concrete at the Happy Jack
Landfill (Solid Waste Management).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed
$156,600.00). (#6272)
[CA] Authorization to purchase one John Deere 772G Motor Grader with 6wd, new 2015 model
under Wyoming Department of Transportation Bid #15-038MD, for the Street and Alley Division
(2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Re-Appointments of Paul M. Frauendienst to the Building Code Board of Appeals, Mark C.
Hardee to the Fire Civil Service Commission, and Tony Adams to the Personnel Commission. Mr.
Allen moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Broyles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Ru ssell Pollard to t he Police Civil
Service Commission; Ann Esquibel Redman to the  Personnel Commission, and Rick Ammon and
Wes Peterson to the Historic Preservation Board, to be confirmed January 12, 2015. 
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Kathryn O. Fay and Christina Bird to the
Historic Pr eservation Board, a nd George Pa rks to  the  Pol ice Civ il Se rvice Commission, to  be
confirmed January 12, 2015. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held January 12, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership for
a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Mason Properties, Inc. (d/b/a
to be deter mined), 2801 E. L incolnway, Chey enne, Wy oming ( License cu rrently held by  KZ
Corporation d/b/a Daisy Duke’s Bar, 2801 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Announcement was made that the Sine Die meeting of the Governing Body will be held at
2:30 p.m., and the Fir st Regular Meeting of the Gover ning Body will be held at 2:45 p.m., on
Monday, January 5, 2015 in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made that due to the Sine Die meeting of the Governing Body and the
First Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on Monday, January 5, 2015, regularly scheduled City
Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue,
Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, January 6, 2015
at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday, January 7, 2015 at Noon.
Under other business, Mayor Kaysen submitted and read a written veto message (on file with
City Clerk’s office) detailing his objections to Resolution No. 5635, adopted by majority vote at the
December 8, 2014 meeting of the governing body. [City Clerk Note: Resolution No. 5635 is titled
as follows: Resolution - Establishing g uidelines for the maximum amount of excess revenue that
may be collected for the operation of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fund.]  Contained in Mayor Kaysen’s
reading of his veto message were references to mayoral veto authority provisions and procedures
contained in Chapter 2.04 of City Code, and provisions of Wyo. Stat. § 16-4-104 (b), Preparation
of budgets; contents; review.  Upon procedural inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, advised of City
Council members’ process and options to act, or not act, upon the mayor’s veto.  Mr. Shanor moved
to override the mayor’s veto, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Discussion followed on the concern with
lack of prior notice to City Council members regarding the veto action, and potentially postponing
action on the veto to vet information that Mayor Kaysen presented in his statements, particularly
with regard to state statute budget provisions; how a potential postponement will involve newly
elected Council members joining the governing body membership at the next regular meeting, and,
if the motion were to be postponed, who would be responsible for “vetting” the information.  In
response to the timing of submittal of his written veto and objections, Mayor Kaysen explained his
veto took considerable time to deliberate and prepare.  Mr. Allen moved to postpone the motion to
override the veto to January 12, 2015 (next regular meeting of the governing body), seconded by Mr.
Brown.  Discussion included comments in support as well as non-support of postponing the motion.
Motion to postpone failed (due to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr.
Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Ms. Broyles, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Ms.
Williams.  Comments followed on recognizing the “will of a large majority of the Council”.  It was
noted that pursuant to state statute, a mayor does not have the authority to vote on their own veto.
Motion to override the Mayor’s veto carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Allen, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr.
Luna, Mr. Shanor , Mr. Valde z and Ms. W illiams.  Voting “ no” -- Mr. B rown and Dr. Rinne.
Pursuant to a point of order raised by Mr. Allen re garding the number of  votes requir ed for the
motion to carry, it was verified that a minimum 2/3rds affirmative vote of City Council members (i.e.
9 members) was required.
There being  no further  business  to come before the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:15 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 2, 2015