MEETING: Sine Die Meeting | DATE: 2015-01-05 | CLIP_ID: 462 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 462

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
January 5, 2015
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in “Sine Die” Session on this date at 2:30
p.m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  T hose p resent w ere: M AYOR:  Richard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS: Mr. Allen, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present were Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White, City
Attorney.
Following the pledge of allegiance, Mayor Kaysen welcomed those in attendance and stated
the purpose of the session was to ceremonially recognize outgoing Council members (whose terms
of office were expiring) for their years of service on City Council.  He expressed appreciation to
outgoing Council members Ms. Broyles and Mr. Allen for their time, effort and dedication to the
community.
At Mayor Kaysen’s request, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, read a ceremonial resolution in its
entirety honoring  outgoing  Council member Ge orgia Adams B royles, entitled as follows: “A
Ceremonial Resolution in Recognition of the Honorable Georgia Adams Broyles for her Dedication
and Outstanding Contributions to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and its Residents.”  Mayor Kaysen
presented Ms. Broyles with a framed version of the resolution, noting her 10 years of service as a
member of City Council and thanking her for her service to the community.  Ms. Broyles commented
on her years of service as a City Council member, and expressed appreciation to the voters, past and
present members of the g overning body who had se rved with her, City staff, a nd members of  her
family for their support. (#5643)
At Mayor Kaysen’s request, Ms. Intlekofer read a ceremonial resolution in its entirety honoring
outgoing Council member Sean Allen, entitled as follows:  “A Ceremonial Resolution in Recognition
of the Honor able Sean D. Allen for  his Dedica tion and Outstanding  Contributions to the  City of
Cheyenne, Wyoming, and its Residents.”  Mayor Kaysen presented Mr. Allen with a framed version
of the resolution, noting his 4 years of service as a member of City Council and thanking him for his
service to the community.  Mr. Allen commented on his years of service, and expressed appreciation
for the oppor tunity to serve the  community  as a City Council member, and to membe rs of the
governing body who had served with him, City staff, and members of his family for their support.
(#5644)
Mayor Kaysen announced the First Regular Meeting of the governing body, involving newly
elected and continuing members, would convene in City Council Chambers immediately following
the closure of the “Sine Die” session.
There being no further business previously noted for the “Sine Die” Session, Mayor Kaysen
adjourned the meeting at 2:48 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
PUBLISH: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 9, 2015