MEETING: First Regular Meeting of the Governing Body | DATE: 2015-01-05 | CLIP_ID: 463 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 463

   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
 
January 5, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne assembled for its First Regular Meeting for
2015 on this date at 2:49 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Purpose of the First Regular Meeting was to
recognize and administer oaths of office to those individuals who were elected, or re-elected, at the
most r ecent general e lection to s erve a s Ci ty Cou ncil m embers, a s w ell a s p rovide fo r certain
administrative functions.
Mayor Kaysen welcomed those in attendance and introduced The Honorable Thomas L. Lee,
Circuit Court Judge, 1st Judicial District, who was present to administer oaths of office to officials.
Judge Lee expressed appreciation for community services provided by local elected officials and
administered the oath of elected office to the following newly elected, or re-elected, City Council
members: Scott D. Roybal, Ward I; Dr. Mark D. Rinne, Ward II; and Richard Johnson, Ward III.
Mayor Kaysen verified that the recently elected Council members had received their oath of
office as required by law and officially called the First Regular Meeting of the governing body to
order at 2:55 p.m.  Those present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr.
Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms.
Williams.  Also present we re Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Da n White, City Attorney.  The
pledge of allegiance was recited.
Election of City Council President for 2015.  Mayor Kaysen announced, pursuant to City
Code, the mayor conducts the election for Council President but does not cast a  vote.  Mr. Cook
moved to nominate and elect Dr. Rinne as City Council President for 2015, seconded by Mr. Valdez.
Dr. Rinne accepted the nomination.  Mr. Roybal moved that nominations cease, seconded by Mr.
Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of
Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.  Motion to nominate and elect Dr. Rinne as City Council President
for 2015 carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote.
Election of City Council Vice-President for 2015.  Mayor Kaysen announced, pursuant to
City Code, the mayor conducts the election for Council Vice-President but does not cast a vote.  Dr.
Rinne moved to nominate and elect Mr. Shanor as City Council Vice-President for 2015, seconded
by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Shanor accepted the nomination.  Dr. Rinne moved that nominations cease,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.  Motion to nominate and elect Mr. Shanor as City
Council Vice-President for 2015 carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body with
the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.
Approval of Appointment of City  officials (pursuant to Title 2 of the Code of  the City of
Cheyenne) as follows:  Matthew J. Ashby, Planning Services Director; Paul S. Galeotos, Municipal
Court Judge; Randy K. Hays, Assistant City Treasurer (Board of Public Utilities); Lois A. Huff, City
Treasurer; Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk/Assistant City Treasurer; Ronnald J. Jeffrey, Juvenile Court
Judge; Brian N. Kozak, Chief of the Cheyenne Police Department; James A. Martin, Chief of the
Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department; Mark T. Moran, Municipal Court Judge; Vicki Nemecek,
Public Works Director; Richard L. Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, and Daniel E. White, City
Attorney.  Mr. Brown  moved to appr ove the appointments “en masse”, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body with the exception of May or
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointments).  Following announcement of the vote, Judge Lee
administered the oath of appointed office to those City officials present.  Mayor Kaysen noted that
Mr. Hays was unable to attend the meeting and his oath of office would be administered by the City
Clerk at a later date.
Mayor Kaysen announced light refreshments would be served in the Council annex adjoining
Council Chambers immediately following the meeting.
There being no further business previously noted for the First Regular Meeting, the meeting
was officially adjourned at 3:08 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 9, 2015