MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-01-12 | CLIP_ID: 466 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 466

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
January 12, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor,
Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also  present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed  from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Cook and Mr. Roybal, agenda item #24(b) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 22, 2014.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Sine Die Session of the Gove rning Body on January 5, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from First Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 5, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, City Treasurer Lois Huff provided
information on vouchers payable to:   Ameri-Tech HVAC Services (equipment replacements paid
from special distribution funds for one time expenditures); AMPO (professional membership dues
to Association of Metropolitan Planning Organizations),  and Lock Shop of Cheyenne, Inc. (spare
keys for newer trucks).  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
in C ouncil Cha mbers.  F ollowing a nnouncement o f t he vo te, M r. B rown re turned to  Cou ncil
Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for input and comments on a transfer of ownership
for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Mason Properties, Inc.
(d/b/a to be determined), 2801 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by KZ
Corporation d/b/a Daisy Duke’s Bar, 2801 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Upon inquiry,
John Mason, applicant, briefly reviewed adjacent property he owns and improvements he has made;
advised he had previously owned the building and held the liquor license years ago, and stated his
intent for use of the license will be to tear down the existing building and rebuild for use as a small
retail plaza, which will include a pac kage l iquor store.  The re being no f urther comments and
purpose of  the hea ring having  been me t, May or Ka ysen closed the  h earing and re ferred the
application to the Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of the NW1/4 of
Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as The Bluffs, 10th
Filing Annexation (located between Converse Avenue and Crestridge Drive, north of Foothills
Road).  Frank Cole, President, United Western Corporation, requested the item be postponed for two
weeks to al low fo r s ynchronizing of  tim ing fo r t he a ffiliated f inal pl at a nd re -zoning a ctions.
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Cook moved to postpone to J anuary 26, 2015, seconded by Mr.
Luna.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen clarified that pursuant to Robert’s Rules of Order the governing
body can not postpone items for more than two weeks (i.e. to next regular meeting).  Motion to
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the S1/2 of Lot 4, Williams
Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at 812 Storey Boulevard).  Mr. Cook moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. (#4050)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from Conditional MUB Mixed-Use Business (Ordinances #3891
& #3919) to MUR Mixed-Use Residential for Lots 1, 2, and the north 66 feet of Lots 3 and 4, Block
195, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of East
23  Street and Russell Avenue).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, secondedrd
by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4051)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing t he z oning cl assification fr om HR  Hi gh De nsity R esidential (C ounty) t o HR -2 Hi gh
Density Residential-Developing for a  replat of portions of T racts 245, 246, 247, and 248, and a
portion of the vac ated e ast half of  Arthur Road, Sunny side Addition, 6th Filing, Chey enne,
Wyoming, to be known as Carte r Cottages (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of
Hayes Ave nue and U S Highwa y 30).  James Perrott Macne il provid ed copies of prope rty tax
assessments for properties located west of Cheyenne and commented the properties involve his
family’s lineage (Note: Copies on file with City Clerk’s Office).  Mayor Kaysen noted the copies
were from the County Assessor’s office and appeared to be for various properties that are part of the
Belvoir Ranch.  Mr. Cook moved to approve  on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4052)
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of Tracts 1 and 7
and all of Tracts 26 and 27, Dell Range Addition; Lots 1 and 2, Smithson View, Laramie County,
Wyoming, to be known as Thomas Heights Annexation (located between Ridge Road and College
Drive along Thomas Road).  Speaking in opposition to annexation and the affiliated re-zoning and
final plat ac tions as proposed were: Ga il Sundell and Kay  McAdams.  Comm ents included the
following topics: Buffer screening; cash-in-lieu of open space agreement; additional exit street(s)
from the development; streets, sidewalks a nd future ma intenance costs; responsible g rowth and
proper planning ; community g rowth and its ef fect on neig hboring co unty residents; developer
construction debris/dust control concerns; zoning, and providing for open areas, such as a park and
greenway.  Ms. McAdams voice d opposition t o a propose d street na me within the development
affiliated with her family, and James Perrott Macneil voiced his objection to any annexation actions.
Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4053)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from A-1 (County), Agricultural and Rural Residential, to AR,
Agricultural Residential, for Lot 5, Block 8, Thomas Heights, and from A-1 (County), Agricultural
and Rur al Re sidential, a nd AR  (C ounty) A gricultural Re sidential, t o M R-2, Me dium-Density
Residential-Developing, for the r emainder of Thomas He ights, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located
between Ridge Road and Colleg e Drive along Thomas Road).  Kay  McAdams questioned the
appropriateness of the proposed AR zone classification for Lot 5, Block 8, and expressed concerns
with the AR vs. MR-2 zoning.  Mayor Kaysen clarified the owner of the parcel had requested the AR
zone.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third a nd final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams. Upon
inquiry regarding the lot proposed to be changed to AR,  Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for the applicant,
noted the lot owners plan to keep it as a residential use.  Discussion topics included: Proposed AR
zone, and differences between County vs. City AR zones vs. agricultural type zones.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4054)
AN ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning  Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County LR Low Density Residential and LR-2 Low-
Density Residential, Developing to MR-2 Medium-Density Residential, Developing for Cheyenne,
Wyoming, the Bluffs, 10  Filing (located north of and adjacent to Foothills Road betwee n Pointth
Bluff and Mountain Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Water and Sanitary Sewer Services, by  Outside User’s
Agreement, with Cheyenne Rail Hub, LLC, for portions of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 27 and the
Northeast 1/4 of Section 28, T13N, R67W of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  M otion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5645)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Carter
Cottages, a replat of portions of Tracts 245, 246, 247, and 248 and a portion of the vacated east half
of Arthur Road, Sunnyside Addition, 6th Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest
corner of the intersection of Hayes Avenue and US Highway 30).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5646)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Thomas
Heights, a replat of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Smithson View, Tracts 26 and 27, and a portion of Tracts 1 and
7, Dell Range Addition, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Ridge
Road and C ollege D rive, south of Summit Drive).  Ga il Sundell questi oned timing of
implementation of the Level 3 screening; cash-in-lieu of open space agreement; possibility of an exit
from Carla Drive into Thomas Heights, and sidewalks from Thomas Heights south into the City.
Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for a pplicant, Guardian Companies, advised the de veloper would be
building a  6 f oot pr ivacy fe nce a long the  no rth li ne, a nd pr ovided in formation on L evel 3
buffering/landscaping require ments and the c ash-in-lieu of  open spac e agreement, noting total
amounts of useable open space have not yet been calculated and would be reviewed during the
design phase.   Mr. Emmons provided history on why a road from Carla Drive was not planned based
upon past development action, and stated sidewalks would be provided as required, indicating any
sidewalks along College Drive would be a WYDOT decision as it is a state highway under the state’s
jurisdiction, noting that WYDOT staff would be involved in reviewing the plans.  Kay McAdams
commented on developer benefits; requested the name Sailor Street be removed from the plat;
expressed that she wants to be able to do what she wants with her property in the future relative to
street names and use of her property, and indicated she would like assurance from the developer that
this is going to be a quality housing development.  Mr. Emmons stated one of the owners involved
in the develo pment project requested Sailor Street be the name of one of the streets within the
subdivision, and that there are no plans to change this.  He submitted a copy of the letter from the
respective owners requesting the stree t name ( Note: Copy on file with the City  Clerk’s Of fice).
James Perrott Macneil stated he was exercising power of attorney and forbid the City from using any
land he owns.  During Mr. Macneil’s comments, Mr. Brown raised a point of order that comments
were off subject from the agenda topic with Mayor Kaysen concurring with the point of order.  Karen
Larson expressed her concerns with current traffic speed and control measures on College Drive, and
street da rkness, due  to lack of lig hting, on Thoma s Road at Colleg e Dr ive and Ridg e Road
intersections; questioned whether some type of signaling mechanism for fire trucks exiting from the
station on College Drive could be installed, and commented in support of open public space within
the development.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt contingent upon a cash-in-lieu agreement involving
parks fees, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Emmons stated the City has a franchise
agreement with Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power (CLFP) and when the design is done they will work
with CLFP and other utility providers with regard to roads, lighting, services and placement of water
and sewer.  Mr. Emmons also provided information on planned detention ponds and potential use
of some as open space areas.  Chief Jim Martin, Fire and Rescue Department, advised the fire station
on College Drive is outside City limits.  He stated once the Thomas Heights development area is
annexed it becomes the City’s responsibility for Fire and Rescue response but they do have a mutual
aid agreement with the county (re. fire stations) if a re quest by the City for assistance is needed.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5647 RES/#6278 CON)
[CA] RESOLUTION - D esignating the Sundays during 2015 that annual liquor lice nsees may
extend dispensing room hours of operation for sales until 2:00 A.M. the following day -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Triumph
Addition, 2nd Filing, a replat of Lot 1, Block 1, Triumph Addition; Lot 1, Block 4, Harmony Center;
and a por tion of Grand H armony Drive and Center D rive rights-of-way, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of W. College Drive and Grand Harmony Blvd) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Nelson Subdivision, a replat of the north 180.29 feet of Tract 12, Clear View Tracts, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corn er of the interse ction of E. F ox Farm Road and
Avenue C-2) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Urban Planning Office, and
Ayres Associates for Brownfield Revolving Loan Fund Implementation (Environmental Protection
Agency Brownfield Revolving Loan Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to
exceed $100,000.00). (#6275)
  
Professional Services Agreement between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization
and A.V.I., p.c., for the High Plains Road 35% Design Plan (MPO Planning funds).  James Perrot
Macneil commented that he owned  all of the land ( i.e. involving the f uture road).  Mr. B rown
reported there was no recommendation from Finance Committee on the item due to lack of a second
on the motion.  Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $85,300.00, seconded by
Mr. Roy bal.  Mr. Shanor move d to amend Exhibi t A (Scope of  Work), Task D.2, Steer ing
Committee Meetings, by adding a condition that Councilman Luna be a member of the Steering
Committee, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Luna confirmed he is interested in the
project and would like to serve on the committee.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting "yes" -- all
members of the governing body.  Discussion topics included:  2004 South Cheyenne Streets Master
Plan; connectivity between I-25 (near Swan Ranch interchange) and South Greeley Highway; past
County replatting of Spee dway Road; eff icient use of taxpayers dollars, and planning  for f uture
growth in the ar ea.  U pon inquiry, Sreyoshi Chakraborty, Metropolitan Planning O rganization
(MPO), advised the intent of the corridor plan is to begin design of a future road to connect with the
High Plains interchange and that the plan will provide for a proposed route and general alignment
to businesses and developments in the area.  Tom Mason, MPO Director, provided information on
the proposed r oadway location g enerally (betwe en I -25 and South Gre eley Hig hway) and
approximate distance involved (four miles), stating most of the land currently is open pra irie;
reviewed and discussed the 2004 South Cheyenne Streets Master Plan and the need to take the plan
to a 35% level for the High Plains Road portion, and described plan elements that would be studied
and included in the design plan, such as road width, drainage and engineering details.  He explained
discussions with landowners relative to future acquisition of any needed rights-of-way would also
be conducted.  Ma yor Kaysen noted a map would be forthcoming once the design is created to
determine where the alignment will go.   Main motion, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams voting "no".
(#6276)
[CA] Juvenile Ac countability B lock G rant C ontract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne, Y outh
Alternatives, and the State of Wyoming, Department of Family Services, for funding of Municipal
Juvenile Court staffing and services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City in
the amount of $10,679.00). (#6277) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Stride Learning Center for
use of a  2006 Chevrolet El Dora do bus for se rvices for Stride clients --  ref erred to Fina nce
Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 4 to Contract No. 6041 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and AP Wyoming, LLC, to reduce held retention from 10% to 5%  on the
entire Municipal Pool and Expansion Project as allowed by W.S. §16-6-702 (1% Specific Purpose
Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6041)
Amendments No. 1 to City  Contracts No. 6137, 6134 a nd 6135 betwee n the City  of
Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Reiman Corp. and Subsidiary; Laramie County,
Wyoming, a nd WC  I nvestments, I nc., re spectively, relating to the Polk Avenue Projec t and
pertaining to re imbursements to be paid to th e City of Cheyenne f or portions of the c osts of
construction of the Polk Avenue Project.  Jeff Wiggins, Parks and Recreation Department, requested
a two we ek postponement to allow for  continued negotiations between the  parties.  Mr. B rown
moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $107,505.38, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Mr. Brown
moved to postpone to J anuary 26, 2015, seconde d by Mr. Valde z.  Mot ion to postpone carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Change Order No. 1 to accepted Bid #R-17-14 for furnishing two new 2014-2015 cab and
chassis units with rear load sanitation refuse collection bodies, 25 cubic yard with tippers,  for the
City of Chey enne, Sanitation Division (Solid W aste Equipment L ease) --  ref erred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA] Change Order No. 1 to accepted Bid #R-18-14 for furnishing one new 2014-2015 roll-off
truck for the City of Cheyenne Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Equipment Lease) -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Change Order No. 1 to accepted Bid #R-27-14 for furnishing two new cab and chassis units
with 40 yard front loader refuse collection bodies for the City  of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division
(Solid Waste Equipment Lease) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Change Order No. 1 to accepted Bid #R-11-15 for furnishing one new 2014-2015 small dozer
(CAT D5K5-2 LGP or equal) for the City of Cheyenne, Landfill Division  (Solid Waste Fund) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
Change Order No. 1 to acc epted Bid #R-16-14 from Peterbilt of Wy oming, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, for cab and chassis units with automated refuse collection packer body with dual arm side
loaders for the City of Cheyenne (Solid Waste Equipment Lease) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Mr. Brown advised the item was discussed under other items for the agenda at Finance Committee
and that provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director,
advised the change order will bring the equipment lease agreement int o compliance with state
statute, advising that recent restructuring of the lease now requires the financial institution own and
title the equipment and that the trade-in process must be a separate financial exchange.  She stated
the change order involves three trade-ins in which the C ity will retain one of the trucks, due to a
recent truck f ire, and that the trucks ha ve been received and placed into service.  Ms. Nemec ek
explained approval of the change order will allow for payment to the vendor.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve in the amount of $68,500.00, seconded byMr. Valdez.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek advised
the truck that was damaged due to the fire will be declared as surplus.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes"
-- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Change Order No. 1 to accepted Bid #R-13-15 from Stotz Equipment, Cheyenne, Wyoming,
for one new 2014 - 2015 utility farm tractor for the City of Cheyenne, Landfill Division (Solid Waste
Equipment Lease)  -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Authorization to purchase one John Deere 772G Motor Grader with 6wd, new 2015 model
under Wyoming Department of Transportation Bid #15-038MD, for the Street and Alley Division
(2011-2014 1%  Sales Tax ).  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$273,156.00).   
[CA] Consideration o f B id # M-8-15 fo r a  c ontract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Department, and Construction Specialists, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Airport Golf
Shop Grinding Room Addition Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, Golf Capital Equipment Fund) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-18-15 for furnishing eight new thermal imaging cameras for the City
of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue D epartment (2011 - 2014 1%  Sales Tax) -- re ferred to F inance
Committee. 
[CA] Consideration o f B id # M-11-15 f or a  c ontract b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne, Police
Department, and Beka Corporation, Rapid City, South Dakota, for f iber optics for the Cheyenne
Public Safety Center Projec t (1% Specif ic Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x) --  ref erred to Fina nce
Committee. 
Re-Appointments of Russell Pollard to the Police Civil Service Commission; Ann Esquibel
Redman to  the   Pe rsonnel Co mmission, a nd Ric k Amm on a nd Wes  Pe terson to t he Hi storic
Preservation Board.  Mr. L una moved to appr ove, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Moti on carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not
vote (Mayoral appointees). 
Appointments of Kathryn O. Fay and Christina Bird to the Historic Preservation Board, and
George Parks to the Police Civil Service Commission.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception
of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees). 
[CA] Consideration of purchase from Improve Group, Inc., to provide and install high density
mobile shelving in the Property and Evidence Division for the new Cheyenne Public Safety Center
(1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
Announcement was made  of the Re- Appointment of Ted Ge rtsch to t he Housing a nd
Community Development Advisory Council, to be confirmed January 26, 2015. 
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Nicholas A. Zuhner to the International
Fire Code Board of Appeals, William Sean Casey and Gabriel Herrera to the Building Code Board
of Appeals; Caroline Alston, Angel Antunez, Elizabeth Babbitt, Molly Black, Alex Cole, Shayna
Engdahl, Alexandra Farkas, Lexi Ferrari, Liam Guille, Rachel Moseley, Yvette Moyte, Emily Piel,
Aly Rowe, Jason Weber, Darnell Wheeler Jr., and Katelyn Williams to the Mayor’s Youth Council;
to be confirmed January 26, 2015. 
Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King, J r. Holiday on Monday,
January 19, 2015, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the
Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance
Committee will meet Tuesday, January 20, 2015 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will
meet Wednesday, January 21, 2015 at Noon. 
Under other business, Deb Kellam, Martha Silver and Ben Silver expressed concerns with
bicycle lane striping planne d for Car ey and Pioneer  Avenues in conjunction with the On-Stree t
Bicycle Striping and Signage Project.  Comments included the following topics:  Safety of bicyclists;
street obstacles affecting bicyclists; re-evaluating the contract that has been approved for striping and
signage se rvices; c omponents of  a  his toric ne ighborhood; hi gh v olume tr affic on the str eets,
including use by emergency responders; grant funding for the pro ject and whether approval was
required by the Historic Preservation Board, and the difference between bicycle lane striping vs.
signage markings.  Mayor Kaysen requested Mr. Wiggins review grant requirements regarding the
inquiry involving the Historic Preservation Board and provide information after his review.  Upon
inquiry, Mr. Wiggins referenced a m ap of streets involved in the bike lane striping and signage
project, explained the different markings (in color on the map) that will be placed on the street and
what they mean, and vehicle parking availability.  He stated Carey and Pioneer Avenues are each
one-way couplets and were selected for the project based on their high value as a connecter route and
input from bicycle users who want better connectivity between downtown and north portion of the
City.  He explained the project will provide for guidance on sharing the roadway for bicyclists and
vehicle drivers; described what will be plac ed on the stre ets for striping  lanes vs. sig nage, and
reviewed the planning process for the project that began in 2010 which focused on ways to improve
the greenway and bicycle lanes to provide a complete loop around the City.  Mr. Wiggins provided
information on review of the project for compliance with bicycle codes and laws, and by WYDOT
and the State Historic Preservation Office; discussed options for providing public education on the
street markings, and commented that video signa l detection at the Per shing intersection will be
implemented.  In response to query on status of the current contract with the company that will be
providing striping and signage services, and whether the contract could be cancelled, Mayor Kaysen
advised the legal department would need to be involved as there are legal considerations to review.
Mr. Shanor moved that a report, in the form of an agenda item, be provided at the January 26, 2015
City Council meeting by the City Attorney and Mr. Wiggins, and any other interested parties, on the
following issues: (1) Gra nt funding requirements relative to the Historic Pre servation Board; (2)
whether a shared lane marking depicted in r ed or orange color and/or the blue  colored bike lane
(colored areas as shown on the previously referenced map) relate to or meet provisions of City Code
Section 10.80.080 which discusses parking on a bike way, and particularly subsection "G", which
states where parking is permitted and, if not, what action needs to be taken, and (3) a memorandum
from the City  attorney, which may  be issued as c onfidential to Council members, on the le gal
implications and processes that would be re quired if there could be an amendment to a c ontract
already agreed to or, if desired, how to end a contract.  The motion was seconded by Mr. Luna.  Ms.
Kellam questioned whether a contract already signed can be amended or negotiated to just have a
stencil marking to focus attention on bicycle use in the area instead of a solid bike lane marking.
Upon inquiry regarding whether street markings are considered to be historic, Nathan Beauheim,
Acting City Engineer, advised the federal highway's perspective is that buildings and properties are
historic but roads, signs, asphalt, etc. are not considered to be historic.  Upon inquiry regarding the
funneling of bicyclists in this area (of the Avenues) and how many bicyclists use the streets, Mr.
Wiggins noted the closest bike count area studied was at 8th and Carey Avenues and he would
provide that infor mation to Ci ty Council.  Comm ents followed r egarding public service
announcements to provide community education on the bike lane striping and signage markings, and
whether a motion was needed vs. administrative review procedures.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" --
all members of the governing body.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:27 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 23, 2015