MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-02-09 | CLIP_ID: 470 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 470

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
February 9, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent we re: M AYOR - R ichard L. Ka ysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor
(arriving at 6:02 p.m.), Mr Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed  from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  (City
Clerk note: Mr. Shanor joined the meeting)
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 26, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell-
Doyle Auto Center) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Valde z moved to approve pa yment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  In conjunction with an item on the voucher listing,
request was made f or an updated staff re port on the Christensen Ove rpass Project with May or
Kaysen stating staff would be contacted to provide the report.  Upon request regarding a voucher
payable to the Bicycle Station, Mayor Kaysen advised four replacement bicycles were purchased for
use by Police Department officers.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to
Council Chambers.
Public Hearing for a bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office,
for Wasabi Japanese Steakhouse Inc. d/b/a Wasabi Japanese Grill and Bar, 4620 Grandview Avenue,
Suite 205, Chey enne, Wy oming.  Upon inquiry , Carol I ntlekofer, City  Clerk, ver ified if the
application was approved there would be no more bar and grill liquor licenses available through the
City, and re viewed the differences between a bar  and g rill liquor license vs. a  restaurant liquor
license.  The re being no f urther comments and purpose of  the hea ring having been met, May or
Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the application to the Finance Committee meeting.
Public Hear ing to de termine whether c ompliance of  annexation conditions required by
Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of approximately 12.75 acres of land situated as a
portion of the W½ E½, Section 35, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located
east of Pennsylvania Avenue, between 13  Street and Atlantic Drive).  Josh Tetzlaff, Planning andth
Development office, advised the proposed annexation is pursuant to a petition requesting annexation
submitted by  the prope rty owner ; briefly  revie wed the a rea to be anne xed, and s tated that
requirements and compliance of annexation conditions contained in state statutes had been met.
There being no further  comments or input and purpose  of the he aring having been me t, Mayor
Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Public Hear ing to de termine whether compliance  of anne xation conditions require d by
Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of approximately 1.78 acres of land situated in Tracts
45 and 46, Dell Range Addition, 4th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located on the northeast
corner of N. College Drive and Dell Range Boulevard).  Josh Tetzlaff, Planning and Development
office, advised the proposed annexation is pursuant to a petition requesting annexation submitted
by the property owner; briefly reviewed the area to be annexed, and stated that requirements and
compliance of annexation conditions contained in state statutes had been met.  Upon inquiry, Mr.
Tetzlaff stated his belief that one property owner will be involved in development plans, a nd that
preliminary discussions suggest potential plans may be redevelopment of the property for medical
offices.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met,
Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Public Hear ing to de termine w hether compliance  of anne xation conditions require d by
Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of approximately 17,268 square feet of land situated
in Lots 11 and 12, Bloc k 1, Downey Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and
adjacent to Land Court, ea st of Grove  Drive).  J osh Tetzlaff, Planning  and De velopment office,
advised the proposed annexation is pursuant to a petition requesting annexation submitted by the
property owner ; briefly  revie wed the a rea to be anne xed, and sta ted that re quirements and
compliance of annexation conditions contained in state statutes had been met. There being no further
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public
hearing.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of the NW1/4 of
Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as The Bluffs, 10th
Filing Annexation (located between Converse Avenue and Crestridge Drive, north of Foothills Road)
(Postponed from January 26, 2015).  Kelly Hafner, Benchmark Engineering, agent for the applicant
and pr operty ow ner, Un ited We stern Cor poration, e xpressed a ppreciation to  Da n Wh ite, City
Attorney, for providing feedback to him following discussion at Public Services Committee, and
requested a two week postponement to keep the timing for the affiliated final plat and r e-zoning
actions together and allow for an additional matter to be worked out.  Reporting for Public Services
Committee, Mr. Cook moved to appr ove on third and f inal reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr.
Cook, seconded by Mr. Shanor, moved to amend by replacing the current language in Section 5 of
the ordinance with the following language:  “That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect
upon its approval and publication and upon the official filing of the affiliated The Bluffs, 10  Filing,th
final p lat m ap w ith t he C ounty C lerk a nd E x-Officio Register o f D eeds f or L aramie C ounty,
Wyoming.”.  Upon inqu iry regarding pur pose of the a mendment, Mr. Ha fner explained the
amendment wording was requested at Committee to keep the annexation, zone change and final plat
all together relative to effective date of the annexation.  He explained there was a concern that if the
plat didn’t get recorded then they would not want the annexation and zone change to be effective.
Mr. Hafner advised Mr. White had offered him an opinion since the Committee meeting that he felt
the statutes require an annexation ordinance be tied to a da te but not tied to filing of a  particular
document to become effective, and requested the amendment be voted down so further discussion
could occur.  Upon inquiry , Dan White, City  Attorney, advised it is not customary  to state an
annexation ordinance becomes effective upon the approval of an affiliated final plat. He noted the
ordinance is usually effective either when it is published or, in addition, on a date specified in the
annexation.  Mr. Whit e stated c ontinuing discussions with Mr. Haf ner will be held to revie w a
potential way to address the applicant’s concern.  Upon further inquiry, Mr. White advised he will
review statutes to determine whether the amendment wording, which is currently contained in the
affiliated re-zoning ordinance, was applicable.  Comment followed regarding an annexation action
being a separate issue from a final plat or zone change since annexation serves as an initial starting
point.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body.  Mr. Shanor
moved to postpone to February 23, 2015, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body.
AN ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map A mendments, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County LR Low Density Residential and LR-2 Low
Density Residential, Developing to MR-2 Medium-Density Residential, Developing for Cheyenne,
Wyoming, The Bluffs, 10th Filing (located north of and adjacent to Foothills Road between Point
Bluff and Mountain Road).  K elly Hafner, Benchmark Engineering, agent for the  applicant a nd
property owner, United Western Corporation, requested a two week postponement in order to tie the
zone change with the approval time frame of the annexation.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third
and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Cook moved to postpone to February 23, 2015,
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, c hanging the  zon ing cl assification f rom CB  Com munity B usiness t o M UB Mixe d U se
Business Emphasis for Lot 2, Block 1, Triumph Addition, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
north of and adjacent to Grand Harmony Boulevard, west of Center Drive).  Mr. Cook moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of the W1/2 E1/2
of Section 35, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P .M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be know n as Chukker
Ridge, 2nd Filing  Annexation (located e ast of Pennsy lvania Ave nue, betwe en 13th Street a nd
Atlantic Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the  zon ing c lassification f rom A -2 Ag ricultural (County) t o M R-2 M edium-Density
Residential, Developing for a portion of the W1/2 E1/2 of Section 35, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M.,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Chukker Ridge, 2nd Filing (located east of Pennsylvania
Avenue, between 13th Street and Atlantic Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor
-- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Tracts 45 and 46, Dell Range
Addition, 4th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection
of N. College Drive and Dell Range Boulevard) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from County MR Medium-Density Residential to MUB Mixed-
Use Business Emphasis for Tracts 45 and 46, Dell Range Addition, 4th Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the northeast corner of the intersection of N. College Drive and Dell Range Boulevard) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lots 11 and 12, Bloc k 1,
Downey Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Land Court, east of
Grove Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Secti on 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development C ode, changing the  zon ing c lassification f rom Co unty MR M edium-Density
Residential to MR-1 Medium-Density Residential, Established for Lots 11 and 12, Block 1, Downey
Addition, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Land Court, east of Grove Drive) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Mayor and the  City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for The
Bluffs, 10  Filing, a replat of all of Lots 1-11, Block 9, The Bluffs, 7th Filing; a portion of Lot 1,th
Block 1, Crestridge; and a portion of the NW¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Foothills Road between Point Bluff and Mountain Road).
Kelly Hafner, Benchmark Engineering, agent for the applicant and property owner, United Western
Corporation, requested a two week postponement so the plat ac tion is aligned w ith the affiliated
annexation and zone chang e.  Mr. Cook moved to ad opt, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Cook
moved to postpone to February 23, 2015, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion to postpone carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the Capitol Basin Flood
Control Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5651)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd City  Cle rk to e xecute Sta te Hi storic
Preservation O ffice C ertified Local G overnment ( CLG) g rant a greements f or t hree 2 015 C LG
grants.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5652)
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing approval of a c orridor plan for a  portion of the Chey enne
Business Parkway (located on Campstool Road between Burlington Trail and Christensen Road).
Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry regarding follow-up information
as discussed at Public Ser vices Committee, Brandon Cammarata, Planning and De velopment
Director, advised a memo was provided to the governing body outlining additional information
regarding reviewing agencies and staff report comments.  Mike McBride, BHA Design,  advised they
are coordinating communication efforts with businesses in the parkway regarding the trail system.
Upon inquiry, Mr. Cammarata stated if City Council endorses the plan, it will provide the applicant
the opportunity to m ove forward with a memorandum of understanding for parties involved in
implementation of the plan; clarified staff does not intend to propose a mendments to the Unified
Development Code based upon this project, and noted the concept is similar to creating a Planned
Unit Development (PUD) but that a PUD is far more comprehensive.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Roybal and Ms. Williams voting
“no”.  (#5653)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing a special use permit for a creative sign program for a portion
of the Chey enne Business Parkway (located on Campstool Road betwee n Burlington Trail and
Christensen Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5654)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A pproving Outside User  Water/Sewer  Service s, by  Outside User ’s
Agreement, with Brentag Pacific, Inc., Lots 1A and 1B, Swan Ranch Rail Park, 1st Filing, Laramie
County, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Repealing Resolution No. 4643 and adopting the Neighborhood Traffic
Management Program (NTMP) - 2015 -- r eferred to Publi c Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr.
Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on
the Laramie County Fire District #3 Fire  Tender Project to be submitted to the State L oan and
Investment Board for 2015-2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Niobrara Energy Park, 2nd Filing, a replat of Lot 3, Block 1, Niobrara Energy Park, 2nd Filing,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to East Allison Road, west of South
College Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook). 
[CA] Professional Se rvices Co ntract be tween the C ity of Cheyenne and Wy oming Business
Council on behalf of  Cheyenne Downtown Development Authorit y/Main Street for  downtown
revitalization project (Wyoming Business Council Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#6286)
[CA] Lease Agreement b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne a nd th e G irl S couts o f M ontana and
Wyoming, a Montana corporation, for 45.93 ac res of City-owned real property, located near the
former Roundtop Water Treatment Facility, to be used for Girl Scout purposes -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 3 to Contract No. 4173 between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police
Department, and New World Systems Corporation, adding electronic citations interface and drivers
license reader interface (E-Citation Implementation Grant, 1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $28,250.00). (#4173)
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 6014 betwee n the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and Simon Contractors, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Fiscal Year 2013
City Overlay to reduce retainage (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#6014)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contrac t No. 6101 betwee n the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Fiscal Year 2014
Miscellaneous Concrete and Street Repairs Project to reduce retainage (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6101)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6131 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works De partment, a nd Mo nument B uilders, I nc., Che yenne, Wy oming, f or the  Ho usehold
Hazardous Waste Facility, Sitework, and Underground Storage Tank Replacement Project (State and
local grants) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6271 between the City of Cheyenne, Forestry
Division, and Western Tree Care, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to remove additional trees affiliated
with the Cemetery Complex Tree Removal Project -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 4 to Contract No. 5781 between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for additional strate gic grant writing services and associated preliminary engineering
design required by grants to enable securing additional grant funding for the Cheyenne West Edge
(Lower Capitol Basin) Projec t (1% S pecific Purpose Sale s & U se Tax) -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 5 to Contrac t No. 4563 betwee n the C ity of Chey enne and William A.
Gross, Managing Partner, Wyoming Cattle Company, LLC, for extension of grazing lease on the
Belvoir Ranch -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-19-15 and #R-20-15 f or furnishing one new triple c ombination
pumper truck and affiliated loose equipment for the Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department (SLIB
grant funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointments of Brent Groesbeck to the Contractor Licensing Board, and Alane M. West
to the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority Board (DDA).  Mr. Luna moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with
the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, February 23, 2015 at 6:00
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for renewal applications
for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, and
microbrewery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.
Announcement was made  of t he Re-Appointment of J ames W. Hea rne to the City  of
Cheyenne, Wyoming - Laramie County, State of Wyoming Joint Powers Board for Frontier Park
Improvements, to be confirmed February 23, 2015.
Announcement was made that due to the Presidents’ Day Holiday on Monday, February 16,
2015, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the Municipal
Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee
will meet Tuesday , February 17, 2015 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Service s Committee will meet
Wednesday, February 18, 2015 at Noon.
Under other business:
Upon inquiry regarding a recent financial report involving the separation of the Planning and
Development offices, Mayor Kaysen advised a meeting with the pr ivate sector and stakeholders
would be scheduled in the near future, noting budget preparation for the next fiscal year is affiliated
with the separation.
Upon inquiry regarding the court case status of the Employee Investment Study, Dan White,
City Attorney, briefly reviewed the case filed against the City by the Wyoming Tribune-Eagle; time
lines involving court filings, briefings and oral arguments, and advised an opinion from the District
Court judge has not yet been received.
Dan White, City Attorney, noted the Public Meetings Act allows the governing body to meet
in executive session for considering or tendering offers regarding salaries, wages or other terms and
conditions of employ ment during  neg otiations with the fire  fig hters union.  He r equested the
governing body move into executive session to receive an explanation and summary from himself
and Lois Huff, City Treasurer, regarding proposals to be submitted to the union at the meeting set
for February 11, 2015 when the initial negotiation session begins.  Mr. Shanor moved to meet in
executive session, seconded by Mr. Cook.  M otion carried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body.  Mayor Kaysen announced members would meet in executive session in Council
Chambers, not open to the public; re quested the C ity Attorney, City Clerk, and other  staff a s
requested by the City Attorney, be present at the executive session, and stated there would be no
action taken by the governing body as a result of the executive session, and that the regular City
Council meeting would offici ally conclude at the close  of the e xecutive session.  (Clerk’s Note:
Following a brief recess, executive session convened at 6:56 p.m.)

The meeting was officially adjourned at 7:54 p.m. following conclusion of the e xecutive
session.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 February 19, 2015