MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-02-23 | CLIP_ID: 472 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 472

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
February 23, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor
[arriving at 6:04 p.m.], Mr Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed  from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.) Upon request by Ms. Williams to remove agenda item #20 from
the Consent Agenda and support being received by Dr. Rinne but no other City Council member, the
item remained on Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 9, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Special Meetings of the Governing Body on February 11, 2015 and February
14, 2015.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell-
Doyle Auto Center) and v acated Council Chambers.  Mr. V aldez moved to approve  payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Brown.  [City Clerk note:  Mr. Shanor joined the meeting]
Upon inquiry , Todd Fe ezer, Assistant Dire ctor, Parks a nd Recre ation Depa rtment, prov ided
information on the following vouchers: Colorado Doorways, Inc. and Construction Specialists, Inc.
(replacement and installation of door  (fire r esistant) at the Children’ s Villag e); Da nt Clay ton
Corporation (additional bleachers for Power’s Field); DM Mailing Service (bandanas for dogs/Dog
Obedience class training (expense covered by registration fees), and Ermold Park and Recreation
Products (ADA compliant p layground surface (engineered wood f ibers) at Neighborhood Park).
Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advised a voucher payable to B uilders Choice was for services in
conjunction with grant monies the City receives to assist low income homeowners.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers with the exception
of Ms. Williams voting “no”.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to Council
Chambers.
Public Hearing for  renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant,
limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, and microbrewery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s
Office.  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, noted the following requests are included with the renewal of
the licenses: The Suite (bar a nd grill license) is requesting an additional dispensing r oom, and
Lambousis Revocable Trust is requesting to park its retail license for one additional year as allowed
by state statute.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been
met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the applications to Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of the NW1/4 of
Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as The Bluffs, 10th
Filing Annexation (located between Converse Avenue and Crestridge Drive, north of Foothills Road)
(Postponed from February 9, 2015).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor  moved
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body. (#4055)
AN ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Z oning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2,
Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County LR Low Density Residential and LR-2 Low
Density Residential, Developing to MR-2 Medium-Density Residential, Developing for Cheyenne,
Wyoming, The Bluffs, 10th Filing (located north of and adjacent to Foothills Road between Point
Bluff and Mountain Road). (Postponed from February 9, 2015).  Mr. Shanor  moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body. (#4056)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom CB  Com munity B usiness to M UB Mixe d U se
Business Emphasis for Lot 2, Block 1, Triumph Addition, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
north of and adjacent to Grand Harmony Boulevard, west of Center Drive).  Mr. Shanor moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. (#4057) 
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of the W1/2 E1/2
of Section 35, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as Chukker
Ridge, 2nd Filing  Annexation (located e ast of Pennsy lvania Ave nue, betwe en 13th Street a nd
Atlantic Avenue).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the  zon ing c lassification fr om A -2 Ag ricultural ( County) t o M R-2 M edium-Density
Residential, Developing for a portion of the W1/2 E1/2 of Section 35, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M.,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Chukker Ridge, 2nd Filing (located east of Pennsylvania
Avenue, between 13th Street and Atlantic Drive).  Mr. Shanor  moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Tracts 45 and 46, Dell Range
Addition, 4th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection
of N. College Drive and Dell Range Boulevard).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from County MR Medium-Density Residential to MUB Mixed-
Use Business Emphasis for Tracts 45 and 46, Dell Range Addition, 4th Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the northeast corner of the intersection of N. College Drive and Dell Range Boulevard).
Mr. Shanor move d to approve on sec ond reading, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Moti on carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lots 11 and 12, Block 1,
Downey Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Land Court, east of
Grove Drive).   Mr. Shanor  moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE  - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the zoning classification from County MR Medium-Density Residential to MR-1 Medium-
Density Residenti al, Established for L ots 11 and 12, Bloc k 1, Downey  Addition, Chey enne,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Land Court, east of Grove Drive).  Mr. Shanor moved
to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  M otion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Mayor and the  City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for T he
Bluffs, 10  Filing, a replat of all of Lots 1-11, Block 9, The Bluffs, 7th Filing; a portion of Lot 1,th
Block 1, Crestridge; and a portion of the NW¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Foothills Road between Point Bluff and Mountain Road).
(Postponed from February 9, 2015)  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5655)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A pproving Outside User Water/Sewer Service s, by  Outside User ’s
Agreement, with Brentag Pacific, Inc., Lots 1A and 1B, Swan Ranch Rail Park, 1st Filing, Laramie
County, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5656)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Repealing Resolution No. 4643 and adopting the Neighborhood Traffic
Management Program (NTMP) - 2015.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5657)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed on
the Laramie County Fire District #3 Fire  Tender Project to be submitted to the State L oan and
Investment Board for 2015-2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5658)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Niobrara Energy Park, 2nd Filing, a replat of Lot 3, Block 1, Niobrara Energy Park, 2nd Filing,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to East Allison Road, west of South
College Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5659)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W .S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for the Wyoming
Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program, Grant Funding for the City’s Mobile D.U.I.
Command Post -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Chukker
Ridge, 2  Filing, a replat of a portion of the W½E½ of Section 35, T.14N., R66W., of the 6  P.M.nd th
Laramie County, Wyoming (located east Pennsylvania Avenue, between 13  Street and Atlanticth
Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the C heyenne Police D epartment to apply  for Of fice on
Violence Against Women OVW-2015-4031 Grants to encourage arrest policies and enforcement of
protection orders program -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Girl Scouts of Montana and
Wyoming, a Montana corporation, for 45.93 acres of City-owned real property, located near the
former Roundtop Water Treatment Facility, to be used for Girl Scout purposes.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6292)
[CA] Lease Agreement between the C ity of Cheyenne, Information Technology Division, and
Xerox by Xerox Agent XESI for 11 c opiers for various City Departments -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and
United Way of Laramie County to jointly create a Human Services Advisory Council (HSAC) for
the purpose of  coordinating human se rvices funding and deliver y systems -- re ferred to F inance
Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6131 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works De partment, a nd Mo nument B uilders, I nc., Che yenne, Wy oming, f or the  Ho usehold
Hazardous Waste Facility, Sitework, and Underground Storage Tank Replacement Project (State and
local grants).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $20,694.00). (#6131)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6271 between the City of Cheyenne, Forestry
Division, and Western Tree Care, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to remove additional trees affiliated
with the Cemetery Complex Tree Removal Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $9,200.00). (#6271)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 4 to Contract No. 5781 between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for additional strate gic grant writing services and associated preliminary engineering
design required by grants to enable securing additional grant funding for the Cheyenne West Edge
(Lower Capitol Basin) Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $94,878,00). (#5781)
[CA] Amendment No. 5 t o Contract No. 4563 be tween the City of Chey enne and William A.
Gross, Managing Partner, Wyoming Cattle Company, LLC, for extension of grazing lease on the
Belvoir Ranch.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#4563)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6137 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, Greenway Division, and Reiman Corporation for reduction in retainage from
10% to 5% as allowed by Wyo. Stat. §16-6-702 (Greenway funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 4 to Contract No. 4173 be tween the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police
Department, and New World Systems Corporation, adding BOLOS, Web Briefing Notes, Automatic
Vehicle Location Cad Interface, AVL Mobile In-Car Mapping, and G.I.S. Interface (1% Specific
Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-19-15 and #R-20-15 for f urnishing one new triple c ombination
pumper truck and affiliated loose equipment for the Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department (SLIB
grant funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried  (accept Bid #R-19-15 from Front Range Fire
Apparatus of Frederick, Colorado in an amount not to exceed $548,465.00, and Bid #R-20-15 from
Front Range Fire Apparatus of Frederick, Colorado in an amount not to exceed $45,667.32).
Consideration of B id #M-12-15 for  a contr act between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and American Contracting of Wyoming, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the
Blue Ribbon Base ball Complex Pressbox Addition and Remodel Pro ject -- referred to Financ e
Committee.  Mr. Brown advised, due to timing involving construction of the proposed project, the
item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the February 17  Finance Committee meeting,th
and provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown
moved to accept the bid from American Contracting of Wyoming, LLC, in an amount not to exceed
$92,859.14, seconde d by Mr. Roy bal.  Todd F eezer, Assistant Direct or, Parks and Recre ation
Department, advised the project will expand the score booth and media use space in preparation for
the Northwest Regional Baseball Tournament, which the City will be hosting the next two years.
He stated the improvements will also assist with attracting other tournaments to be held in Cheyenne
and, upon inquiry, clarified the improvements are needed regardless of the tournament event and
noted funding sources for the project.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#6293)
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-13-15 for  a contr act between the City of Ch eyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and American Contracting of Wyoming, LLC., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for
David R. Romero, South Cheyenne Community Park, Public Restroom Infrastructure Installation
Project (CDBG Funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-14-15 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corpor ation and Subsidiary , Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the 19  Streetth
Rehabilitation, Phase I Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-15-15 for  a contr act be tween the  City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and Mechanical Systems, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Fiscal Year 2015
Drainage Improvements Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Application for a bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office
for Wasabi Japanese Steakhouse Inc. d/b/a Wasabi Japanese Grill and Bar, 4620 Grandview Avenue,
Suite 205, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
Re-Appointment of James W. Hearne to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming - Laramie County,
State of Wyoming Joint Powers Board for Frontier Park Improvements.  M r. Shanor moved to
approve, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 9, 2015, at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions
required by Wyoming Statute §15-1- 402 exist for a pa rcel of land of a pproximately 78.9 acres
situated in the North 286.5 feet of Tract 36; NW¼SE¼SW¼ of Section 4; and a portion of Sections
4 and 5, T.13N., R66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located North of E. Fox Farm Road,th
between Morrie Avenue and Avenue C-4). 
Under other business, Bart Stolp referenced comments he had made during an October 2014
City Council meeting concerning traffic, speed limits and his request for safety improvements on
Van Buren Avenue, near Dildine Elementary School.  He noted, pursuant to discussions with the
City En gineer’s office a nd the  sc hool d istrict, p lans a re in p rogress t o im plement s peed li mit
reductions in the school zone but he ha d been advised that the re st of Van B uren (outside of the
school zone) would remain a 30 m.p.h. area as it is d esignated as a collector street.  M r. Stolp
discussed potential options to reduce the street’s speed limit, outside of the school zone area, to 25
m.p.h.  Upon inquiry , Nathan B eauheim, Acting City  Eng ineer, explained st ate st atutory
requirements that must be followed to change the speed limit from 30 to 25 m.p.h.; ad vised what
area constitutes the school zone and the  City’s signage policy in school zones/crosswalks, and
provided information on the Neighborhood Traffic Management Program (NTMP) adopted, as
updated, by resolution earlier in the meeting.  Comments followed on the City and school district
committee that meets to review traffic issues near schools; composition of committee members; date
of the ne xt committee meet ing, and procedural elements of the r evised NTMP that nee d to be
coordinated and possibly adjusted due to different neighborhood specifics and program requests.
There being  no further  business to come before the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:07 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 March 5, 2015