MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-03-23 | CLIP_ID: 477 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 477

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
March 23, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr Valdez and
Ms. Williams.  Absent: Mr. Shanor.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed  from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, noted a clerical correction on Agenda
Item #6 regarding a date error.  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Governing Body on Marc h 9, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Special Me etings of the Gove rning Body on March 4, 6, 11 and 12, 2015.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Council Chambers.  Mr. Va ldez moved to  approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - Repealing Chapter 5.76, Temporary or Transient Merchants, in its entirety
and re -creating Chapter 5.76, Te mporary or Tra nsient Merc hants; Residential Door-To- Door
Solicitors, of Title 5, Business L icenses and Reg ulations, of the co de of the City of Chey enne,
Wyoming.  Repor ting for Public Services Committee, M r. Cook moved to approve  on second
reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the North 286.5 feet of Tract
36; NW¼SE¼SW¼ of Section 4; and a  portion of Sections 4 & 5, T.13N ., R.66W., 6  P.M.,th
Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of E. Fox Far m Road, between Morrie A venue and
Avenue C-4).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Valdez and Mayor
Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Ms. Williams.
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 (b) of the Chey enne U nified
Development Code (UDC), amending provisions of Section 2.2.1 (sponsor -- Ms. Williams).  Mayor
Kaysen announced the item was being withdrawn from the agenda at the request of the sponsor.
 RESOLUTION - Directing staff to proceed with the process of presenting to the Governing
Body of the City  of Chey enne f or consider ation an ordinance a dopting impac t fee s on new
development in the City of Cheyenne.  Mr. Brown raised a point of information advising, as sponsor
of the resolution, he was requesting the item be withdrawn from the agenda.  Upon query and with
no objection raised by members of the governing body, Mayor Kaysen announced the item was being
withdrawn from the agenda.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board to enter into a g rant
agreement with the U.S. Department of Transportation to accept and receive a grant for $200,000
under the  Small C ommunity Air Service  Deve lopment Grant Prog ram.  Motion (per  Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5564)
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Waterfor d Square, situated in the N orth 286.5 fee t of Tra ct 36;
NW¼SE¼SW¼ of Section 4; and a portion of Sections 4 & 5, T.13N., R.66W., 6   P.M.,  Laramieth
County, WY (located nor th of E. Fox Far m Road, betwee n Morrie  Avenue and A venue C-4).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (acknowledged Planning Commission’s recommendation to
approve).
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,
and Ayres Associates for Lake Minnehaha Remediation Plan Phase 2  P roject at  Holliday Park
(County Consensus Block G rant).  Motion (pe r Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to ex ceed
$192,645.00). (#6307)  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Cheyenne
Girls Softball Association for the right to use the Concession Stands in Converse Softball Complex
and Brimmer Park for the 2015 - 2017 seasons.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to
the City in the amount of $1,750.00 annually/3 year term). (#6308)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between The City of Cheyenne and The Na ture
Conservancy, a non-profit corporation, re garding City  financ ial support of the purc hase of  a
conservation easement benefitting the Big Hole property owned by the City of Cheyenne.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (City’s portion $5,000.00). (#6309)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and InTTec Inc. to permit limited use of the public
right-of-way for the installation of a fiber optic communications system and setting a fee (revenue
to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6310)
[CA] 2015 - 2017 Collective L abor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and
Cheyenne Firefighters Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 4 to Contract No. 6115 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, to modify the construction contingency and the total contract price
for the Cheyenne Public Safety Center Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6115)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-22-15 for furnishing one new bi-directional tractor with hydrostatic
drive system and 21’ width flail mower for the City’s Street and Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1%
Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Rose Bros., Inc, of Lingle,
Wyoming, amount not to exceed $205,775.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-23-15 for furnishing one new 2015-2016 cab and chassis with
automated refuse collection packer body with dual arm side loaders installed for the City’s Sanitation
Division (Insurance and Miscellaneous Claims).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
bid from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, Wyoming, amount not to exceed $332,952.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-18-15 for annual purchase of furnishing aggregate for the Street
and Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-19-15 for annual purchase of  hot mix, tack oil and cold mix for
the Street and Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-16 -15 for a contract between the City of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Fiscal Year 2015 City
Overlay, Part 1 Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Appointment of Anthony Durst to the International Fire Code Board of Appeals.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee).
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Phyllis Hime to the Mayor’s Council for
People with Disabilities, and Chris Joannides to the Board of Community Action of Laramie County
Inc., to be confirmed April 13, 2015.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 13, 2015, at 6:00 P.M. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, to receive public comment regarding the intent of the City
of Cheyenne to submit an application for funding to the Wyoming Business Council’s Business
Ready Community, Community Enhancement Grant Program, to assist in funding the West Edge
Streetscape and Civic Center Commons.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the mee ting wa s
officially adjourned at 6:09 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 April 2, 2015