MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-04-13 | CLIP_ID: 478 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 478

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
April 13, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook (arriving at 6:02 p.m.), Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr.
Roybal, Mr. Shanor, Mr Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  Mayor Kaysen recognized members of th e Mighty Eagles 4-H Club
present at the meeting who then led recitation of the pledge of allegiance.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed  from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 23, 2015.  Moti on (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Amer i-Tech HVAC Service s and Ty rrell-Doyle Chevrolet r espectively) and va cated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by
Mr. Valdez .  Upon inquiry, Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director; Kari Kivisto, Leisure Services
Director and Mayor Kaysen provided information available on vouchers payable to Environmental
Health (fee collected for reviewing plats); refunds to several individuals for deposits for “Learn to
Play” hockey equipment rentals, and The Nature Conservancy (cost of easement share for property
located next to the Belvoir Ranch per recent approval by resolution).  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the
vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive public comment regarding the intent of the
City of Cheyenne to submit an application for funding to the Wyoming Business Council’s Business
Ready Community, Community Enhancement Grant Program, to assist in funding the West Edge
Streetscape and Civic Center Commons.  C indy Schneider, Grants Manager, advised the g rant
request amount is $500,000.00 with a 50% City match.  She noted elements of the project for which
the funding  will be used and r eviewed the  g rant a pproval proc ess and time fr ames.  Ge ne
MacDonald,  Ayres Associates, project consultant, provided information on the project and advised
the grant will assist with streetscape design and implementation throughout the West Edge District
and Civic Center Commons area.  Upon inquiry, Mr. MacDonald reviewed the geographic area of
the Civic Center Commons portion of the project.  Frank Cole expressed concern with the proposed
removal of the par king lot west of the municipal building used by  the public during  numerous
activities held at the Civic Center .  Mayor Kaysen advised as part of the grant process involving
planning and stree tscape design, the parking issues w ill be addre ssed.  Ther e being no further
comments and  purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE - Repealing Chapter 5.76, Temporary or Transient Merchants, in its entirety
and re-cr eating Chapter 5.76, Te mporary or Tra nsient Merc hants; Residential Door-To- Door
Solicitors, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Reg ulations, of the code  of the City  of Chey enne,
Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final
reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. S hanor moved to amend the de finition of “Solicit and
“solicitation” in Section 5.76.020, Definitions, by striking the words “conducted by an individual
approved as a r esidential door-to-door solicitor” so the se ntence will instead read “Solicit” and
“solicitation” mean and include any one or more of the following activities . . .”, with subsections
numbered 1, 2 and 3 following the changed wording, seconded by Ms. Williams.  It was advised the
amendment be tter d efines the activity  of solicitation.  Comm ent followed in support of the
amendment and ordinance generally.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook  voting “no”.  Ma in motion as amended c arried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4064)
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the North 286.5 feet of Tract
36; NW¼SE¼SW¼ of Section 4; and a  portion of Sections 4  & 5, T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M.,th
Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of E. Fox Farm Road, betwe en Morrie Avenue and
Avenue C-4).  James Perrott Macneil spoke in opposition to annexation of the property.  Mr. Cook
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  U pon inquiry, Kelly
Hafner, B enchmark E ngineers, a dvised a n a djacent p roperty ow ner d oes n ot p lan to  re quest
annexation at this time as there is no need for water and sewer services on the adjacent property, and
that the deve loper of the  parc el to be anne xed will be providing  the majority  of perimeter
improvements.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4065)
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 4045, a nnexing to the C ity of Chey enne,
Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in a portion of the NE¼SE¼ of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent
to Converse Ave nue, north of De ll Range Boulevard) -- r eferred to Publi c Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - Amending Ordinance No. 4046, pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map
Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map,
of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County A-1
Agricultural and Rural Residential to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density for a parcel
of land situated in a portion of the NE¼SE¼ of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne,th
Wyoming, to be known as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent to Converse Avenue,
north of Dell Range Boulevard) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 15.20, National Electrical Code adopted, and Appendix
K, ICC Electrical Code - Administrative Provisions adopted, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction,
of the Cheyenne City Code relating to adoption of the National Electrical Code, 2014 Edition, and
Appendix K, International Building Code, 2012 Edition, Administrative Provisions -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne to the
Wyoming B usiness Council’s Business Rea dy Communi ty, Community Enhanc ement Gr ant
Program, to assist in funding the West Edge Streetscape and Civic Center Commons -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in agreement
on a project to be submitted by the Town of Pine Bluffs to the State Loan and Investment Board for
funding the Main Street L ighting Project through the 2015 - 2016 County wide Consensus Block
Grant -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in agreement
on two projects to be submitted by the Town of Albin to the State Loan and Investment Board; 2013
- 2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding for a Curb, Gutter and Concrete Rehab Project,
2015 - 2016 County wide Consensus Block Grant for the L arson Road Reconstruction Project --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Swan Ranch Rail Park, 10  Filing, situated on portions of the NE¼NE ¼ of Section 28 and theth
NW¼NW¼ of Section 27, T.13N., R67W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located west ofth
and adjacent to Berwick Road, north of Tundr a Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Cook). 
[CA] 2015 - 2017 Collective L abor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and
Cheyenne Firefighters Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6313)
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the City  of Chey enne, T ransit Division, and
Laramie County, Wyoming, to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community
College, City/County Health Department, and an a rea of Laramie County adjacent to the City  --
referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for  School Resource  Offic ers f or summer school 2015 - - re ferred to F inance
Committee. 
[CA] Right - of - Way Encroachment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the State of
Wyoming for building and site improvements at the He rschler Building along West 26  Street --th
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-18-15 for annual purchase of furnishing aggregate for the Street
and Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
bid from Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $35,040.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-19-15 for annual purchase of  hot mix, tack oil and cold mix for
the Street and Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(accepted bid from ITL Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-16-15 for  a  c ontract b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne, 1%
Construction Division, and S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Fiscal Year 2015 City
Overlay, Part 1 Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
bid from S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $1,515,418.25). (#6314)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-22-15 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Qua lity Electric, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Cobra  LED Lighting Upgrade
Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #R- 25-15 for furnishing front end loa d container s for the City ’s
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointments of Phyllis Hime to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities, and Chris
Joannides to the Board of Community Action of Laramie County Inc.  M s. Williams moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
Authorization for Parks & Recreation Department, Leisure Services Division, to purchase
a used bus for the Child Care Program (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Mr. Brown advised that due to timing and notification requirements involving purchase of the bus,
the item was discussed under other items for the agenda at Finance Committee and provisions of
Title 2 of City  Code had be en met.  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove in a n amount not to ex ceed
$71,400.00, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Kari Kivisto, Leisure Services Director, provided information
on the need to replace a current bus; proposed acquisition of a 2013 used bus with low mileage and
warranty, and explained the bus is one of three that assists with transportation services for children
in the LatchKey program.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at
the June 13, 2015 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Business Meeting -- referred to Finance
Committee.
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Mary Guthrie to t he Board of Public
Utilities, and Morgan Martin to the Historic Preservation Board, to be confirmed April 27, 2015.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, April 27, 2015 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the City of Cheyenne
Comprehensive Consolidated Plan 2015 - 2019 which incorporates the Annual Action Plan 2015-
2016, City of Cheyenne Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) entitlement.  
Under other business, Ms. Williams questioned the status of the graffiti clean-up program
with Mayor Kaysen noting there are no further funds, or supplies which were previously provided
by the community, for the program available through the police department.  
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting w as
officially adjourned at 6:32 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 April 23, 2015