MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-04-27 | CLIP_ID: 480 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 480

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
April 27, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor, Mr Valdez
and Ms. Williams.  Absent: Mr. Cook.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White,
City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor recused himself from participation in voting due to any
appearance of influence on Consent Agenda items involving the State Loan and Investment Board,
and vacated Council Chambers.  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Luna and Ms. Williams, agenda item #17 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request
by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal, agenda item #21(c)
was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda
items, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council
Chambers.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on April 13, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Amer i-Tech HVAC Service s and Ty rrell-Doyle Chevrolet r espectively) and va cated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Inquiry for infor mation was m ade for voucher s payable to Cheyenne Light Fuel and
Power (status of last energy audits and review); Hageman Earth Cycle (commercial grade topsoil for
new tee (golf) boxes); Lyle Signs Inc. (traffic signs), and Triple J Pumping (porta potty services at
the Compost Facility).  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director; Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation
Director; N athan B eauheim, A cting Ci ty E ngineer, a nd M ayor K aysen p rovided in formation
pertaining to the inquiry.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input regarding the City of
Cheyenne Comprehensive Consolidated Plan 2015 - 2019 which inc orporates the Annual Action
Plan 2015-2016, City of Cheyenne Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) entitlement.
Deanne Widauf, Housing and Community Development Office, provided a brief overview of the
history and purpose of the CDBG program, noting the City has received entitlement grant funds since
1975.  She summarized prog ram objectives and the Advisory  Board’s recommendation for 11
eligible projects to be funded through the entitlement allocation funding amount of $404,588.00, as
well as program administration and recaptured funding.  Ms Widauf explained the grant application
process, pu blic no tifications a nd op portunities f or inp ut, a nd ro le of  the Advisory Cou ncil i n
reviewing and recommending projects to be funded.  Upon inquiry regarding information contained
in the Plan on barriers to affordable housing relating to public policies that include land development
costs, impact fees and growth management and design regulations, Ms. Widhauf advised they are
very restricted in what CDB G funds ca n be alloca ted toward but they  will take the topic under
consideration.  There being no further comments and  purpose of the public hearing having been met,
Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinance No. 4045, anne xing to the City  of Chey enne,
Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in a portion of the NE¼SE¼ of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent
to Converse Avenue, north of Dell Range Boulevard).  James Perrott spoke in opposition to any
annexation actions.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Williams moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all members of  the
governing body present.
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinance No. 4046, pur suant to Section 2. 2.1, Zoning Map
Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map,
of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County A-1
Agricultural and Rural Residential to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density for a parcel
of land situated in a portion of the NE¼SE¼ of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne,th
Wyoming, to be known as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent to Converse Avenue,
north of Dell Range Boulevard).  Ms. Williams moved to approve on second reading, seconded by
Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 15.20, National Electrical Code adopted, and Appendix
K, ICC Electrical Code - Administrative Provisions adopted, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction,
of the Cheyenne City Code relating to adoption of the National Electrical Code, 2014 Edition, and
Appendix K, International Building Code, 2012 Edition, Administrative Provisions.  Ms. Williams
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee Schedule -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to S ections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b)  of the Chey enne U nified
Development Code (UDC), amending the qualifying area for notification mailings for Sections 2.1.4,
2.2.1, 2.2.2, 2.2.4, & 2.3.2 -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Ms. Williams). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne to the
Wyoming B usiness Council’s B usiness Ready  Communi ty, Communi ty Enhanc ement Gr ant
Program, to assist in funding the West Edge Streetscape and Civic Center Commons.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5665)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5666)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in agreement
on a project to be submitted by the Town of Pine Bluffs to the State Loan and Investment Board for
funding the Main Street Lighting Project through the 2015 - 2016 County wide Consensus Block
Grant.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5667)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne is in agreement
on two projects to be submitted by the Town of Albin to the State Loan and Investment Board; 2013
- 2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant funding for a Curb, Gutter and Concrete Rehab Project,
2015 - 2 016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant for the Larson Road Reconstruction Project.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5668)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Swan Ranch Rail Park, 10  Filing, situated on portions of the NE¼N E¼ of Section 28 and theth
NW¼NW¼ of Section 27, T.13N., R67W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located west ofth
and adjacent to Berwick Road, north of Tundra Drive).  James Perrott commented in opposition to
the resolution, noting concerns involve his family’s ancestry.  Troy Thompson, Laramie County
Commissioner, a dvised th e Cou nty Com missioners had passed t he re solution wi thout a
recommended City staff condition, and expressed concern with Wyoming case law relative to the
City’s ability to place a condition on a County plat within one mile of the City’s boundaries. Ms.
Williams moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Discussion followed on previously approved
County plats that had included the same proposed City staff condition that had been approved by the
County Commissioners; final plat resolution approval process and the effect on the developer and
proposed plat if the City and County did not adopt identical provisions; desire to resolve the issue
of County plats within the one mile boundary with the County Commissioners in the near future;
possible postponement of the item, and f uture annexation of the prope rty.  Upon inquiry , Brad
Emmons, AVI, agent for the applicant, clarified the site is curr ently under construction and that
postponement of the item would not affect construction; advised purpose of the plat is to cure a legal
subdivision deficiency, and stated the plat property involves one lot and any future vacation that
might be contemplated would probably not be feasible.  Mr. Brown moved to amend to include the
following City staff condition on the plat (map), seconded by Mr. Johnson:  “The undersigned do
hereby acknowledge that this final plat is submitted to the governing body of the City of Cheyenne
for approval pursuant to W.S. §34-12-103 and the undersigned owner(s) and their legal successors
and/or assigns forever do(es) hereby covenant and agree that, following the approval of this plat by
the said Governing Body, no alteration, amendment, or vacation of this plat, in whole or in part, shall
be valid unless such alteration, amendment, or vacation is approved by the said Governing Body.”.
Commissioner Thompson requested the word “vacation” be removed from the proposed condition
wording, and expressed the County and City need to work together on this issue, perhaps through
a state legislation change.  Mr. Perrott commented on rights to the property.  Mr. Brown raised a
point of order that Mr. Perrott’s comments were not germane to the motion to amend on the floor
with Mayor Kaysen calling for further discussion from City Council members.  Discussion followed
on the proposed amendment; annexation timing ; r emoving the word “vacation” from the s taff
condition; whether the amendment was needed at this time, and process and effect if the City and
County adopted conflicting requirements.  Upon inquiry during discussion, Mr. Emmons provided
information on the proje ct and f uture annexation; expressed his belief tha t there c an not be two
separate (conflicting) plat maps, and reiterated his previous statement that the purpose of the plat is
to correct a legal subdivision deficiency.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Brown, Mr.
Johnson and Mayor Kaysen. Voting “no” - - Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roy bal, Mr. Shanor, Mr .
Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.  (#5669)
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Adopting the City of Cheyenne’s Comprehensive Consolidated Plan 2015-
2019, prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Ms. Williams).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submission of a Business Ready Community, Community
Readiness Grant application to the Wyoming Business Council on behalf of the Cheyenne Regional
Airport Board for the new Airport Terminal Project -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr.
Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A pproving the budget of the Downtown Development Authority/Main
Street for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2015 and ending June 30, 2016 -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing between the City  of Chey enne, T ransit Division, and
Laramie County, Wyoming, to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community
College, City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to the City.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ($77,500.00 - revenue to the City). (#6315)
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for School Resource Officers for summer school 2015.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried ($4,245.83 - revenue to the City). (#6316)
Right-of-Way Encroachment Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and the State of
Wyoming for building and site improvements at the Herschler Building along West 26  Street.th
James Perrott commented on the City’s jurisdiction involving the Swan Ranch.  Ms.  Williams
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Comment followed regarding the term of the
agreement, including term extensions, involving public ROW and notification of the project to
residents in the vicinity.  Dennis Egge, State of Wyoming, Project Manager for the Capitol Square
Project, advised the agreement was drafted between the attorney general and City attorney to include
initial and rene wal ter m provisions, and provided info rmation on the state’s c ommunication
campaign w ith the community  and spec ifically those in the ar ea r egarding desig n plans and
construction.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advised the  island improvements, when c ompleted,
located within the ROW will become the City’s maintenance responsibility, and that the State, as the
developer, has assumed the responsibility to notify the neighborhood of the project.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#6317)
[CA] Contract between the City of C heyenne, Police Department, and Absolute Shre dding for
document destruction services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract betwe en the City  of Chey enne, Sanitation Division, and Clean H arbors
Environmental Services, Inc. for hazardous waste disposal services at the Cheyenne Household
Hazardous Waste Facility (Solid Waste Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the
City of Torrington, Wyoming, Police Department, for law enforcement extraterritorial assistance --
referred to Finance Committee.   
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to City Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne and
Recco, Inc., dba Five-R Co., to establish the Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP) for the Cheyenne
Botanic Gardens Conservatory Expansion & Renovation Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use
Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to City  Contract No. 6000 be tween the City of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and AVI Professional Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for additional
construction management services for the Logan Avenue Reconstruction Design Project (2011-2014
1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5511 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and TriHydro Corporation for environme ntal monitoring at the Ha ppy Jack
Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5927 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and AV I Professional Corpor ation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for additional
professional services to complete the Polk Avenue Project (Greenway Funds) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-22-15 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Qua lity Electric, Ch eyenne, Wyoming, for the Cobra  LED Lighting Upgrade
Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an
amount not to exceed $73,428.00). (#6318)
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-25-15 for furnishing  front end loa d container s for the City ’s
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
bid from Wastequip Manufacturing Company, LLC, Statesville, NC, in an amount not to ex ceed
$66,490.00).
[CA]  Consideration o f B id # M-17-15 fo r a  co ntract b etween t he C ity o f Cheyenne, 1%
Construction Division, and JTL Group, Inc., d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Fiscal
Year 2015 City Overlay Part 2 Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-26-15 for  a contr act between the City of Chey enne, Facilities
Maintenance Division, and Amer i-Tech HVAC Service s, I nc. of Che yenne, Wy oming, f or
Mechanical and HVAC System Maintenance for 14 City Buildings -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointments of Mary Guthrie to the Board of Public Utilities, and Morgan Martin to the
Historic Preservation Board.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who
did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at
the June 13, 2015 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Business Meeting.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (Mayor Richard L. Kaysen, Official Voting Delegate; City Clerk Carol Intlekofer,
Alternate Delegate).  
Under other business:
Major Dorr expressed concerns regarding the elimination of the City parking lot west of the
Municipal Building due to proposed plans for the West Edge/Civic Center Commons Project, and
requested consideration that the parking lot be retained to meet parking needs for those accessing
the Civic Center and Municipal Building.  Mr. Dorr also expressed concerns with the need to fix
street pot holes in the downtown area.
James Perrott commented on Belvoir Ranch property taxes, the City’s possession of the land,
and his family’s genealogy involving the land.  
David Nicely discussed his conce rns regarding the con struction schedule f or the L ogan
Avenue Reconstruction Project and negative effect the project is having on local businesses in the
area. 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 7:21 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 May 8, 2015