MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-05-11 | CLIP_ID: 481 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 481

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
May 11, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor
and Ms. Williams.  Absent: Mr. Valdez.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White,
City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor recused himself from participation in voting due to any
appearance of influence on Consent Agenda items involving the State Loan and Investment Board,
and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Go verning Body on April 27, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Amer i-Tech HVAC Service s and Ty rrell-Doyle Chevrolet r espectively) and va cated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  I nquiry for information was made for several vouchers issued to differing property
owners as payment to acquire Rights-Of-Way by the City in conjunction with the Christensen Road
Overpass Project, and a voucher payable to Walmart (DVD and TV for Aquatic Division life guard
training).  Mayor Kaysen and Rick Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation, provided information
pertaining to the inquiries.  Motion ca rried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present in Council C hambers w ith the exception of Ms. Wil liams voting “no” .  Following
announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 4045, a nnexing to the City  of Ch eyenne,
Wyoming, a parcel of land situated in a portion of the NE¼SE¼ of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6th
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent
to Converse Avenue, north of Dell Range Boulevard).  Reporting for Public Services Committee,
Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4066)
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinance No. 4046, pur suant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map
Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map,
of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County A-1
Agricultural and Rural Residential to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density for a parcel
of land situated in a portion of the NE¼SE¼ of Section 20, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne,th
Wyoming, to be known as Scenic Development (located west of and adjacent to Converse Avenue,
north of Dell Range Boulevard).  Donald James Perrott Macneil expressed his belief that all zoning
changes are illegal.  M r. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4067)
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 15.20, National Electrical Code adopted, and Appendix
K, ICC Electrical Code - Administrative Provisions adopted, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction,
of the Cheyenne City Code relating to adoption of the National Electrical Code, 2014 Edition, and
Appendix K, I nternational Building Code, 2012  Edition, Administrative Provisions.  Mr. Cook
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4068)
ORDINANCE - Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee Schedule.  Speaking in
opposition to proposed increases contained in the fee schedule were:  Roger Hovel, owner of a local
meat processing business; William Bennett, local business owner, and Victor Ciccone.  Comments
included the following topics: Monthly cost of full container (dumpster) rentals under the current
fee schedule; sanitation service costs generally; proposed new fee schedule structure; commercial
(business) dumpsters being used by unauthorized individuals; whether customers could purchase
their own dumpster; sug gestion that City  accept bid p roposals from priva te businesses for  the
collection and disposal of solid waste, and r equirement that residents a nd businesses utiliz e the
City’s sanitation services constitutes a monopoly.  During comments and in response to inquiries,
Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, provided information on the monthly cost for a f ull
container rental; history of components of past fee schedules; proposed ordinance restructuring the
fee schedule enabling charges to be more inclusive and also based on volume and frequency of pick-
ups, and the cost of providing sanitation services.  Ms. Nemecek explained that sanitation provides
waste containers as part of the service.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek explained private
purchasing of containers would not provide for ongoing maintenance, repair and replacement; may
result in liability concerns, and may not meet uniform compatibility with City equipment used to
pick-up containers.  She noted the proposed fee schedule is to meet operational needs and to reflect
actual c osts o f p roviding sa nitation s ervices.  Mr . Sh anor m oved to  a mend, s econded b y Ms.
Williams, by proposing the 8% fee increase for Fiscal Year 2016 be reduced to a 5% fee increase and
all fees therefore be adjusted down accordingly, and by adding the following language at the end of
Section 2 of the ordinance: Prior to the beginning of Fiscal Years 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, the
Public Works Department will present a new rate schedule.  A rate increase of 5% will become
effective on July 1 of each of the fiscal years identified in this section upon the approval of said rate
increases by the governing body pursuant to the formal adoption of rate ordinances.  In Fiscal Years
2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, the Public Works Department will re-evaluate the Solid Waste Fund by
performing internal rate evaluations.  In Fiscal Year 2020, the Public Works Department will hire
an external firm to perform a Solid Waste Rate Study.  The Solid Waste Rate Study findings and
recommendations shall be presented to the governing body prior to the presentation of a new rate
schedule in Fiscal Year 2021.  Mr. Ciccone, Mr. Bennett and Mr. Hovel commented on the proposed
amendment.  Comments included a suggestion to amend the amendment to provide for acquiring
bids from private busine sses to determine w hether rates are fair and to cons ider privatization of
services; being allowed to privately purchase and own dumpsters; teamwork, and eliminating a
dumpster rate.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek provided information on a 5%  increase relative, for
example, to the cost of a commercial dumpster.  Discussion followed and included the following
topics: Brief chronology of changes to and progress made over the years regarding sanitation fee
schedules; full cost accounting of sanitation operations and needs conducted by an outside consultant
with results indicating rates would have to be increased 8% annually for 5 years to meet the City’s
growth, capital improvements and needs; Sanitation fund turned into an enterprise fund in Fiscal
Year 2015; amendment providing for a $1,000,000 influx, through a re-appropriation or as part of
the FY2016 budget, into the Sanitation fund at some poi nt; concern that a 5% inc rease will not
generate re venue ne eded to  fu nd c apital c onstruction c osts f or pr ojects, su ch a s th e la ndfill
expansion; past history of not approving adequate rate increases to meet needs; future consultant
expenses, and sug gestion of selling  the B elvoir Ranch, or  portion t hereof, to fund ca pital
construction and operational expenses.  Mayor Kaysen advised the Board of Public Utilities is also
an owner of the Belvoir Ranch.  During comments suggesting sale of the ranch, or portion of same,
Mr. Brown raised a point of order stating the topic does not pertain to the motion on the floor.  Ms.
Williams requested  a point of information on whether the ranch was factored into past rates with
Mayor Kaysen advising it was not.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna,
Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson
and Dr. Rinne.  Discussion continued on the main motion, as amended, and included solid waste
disposal costs; concern with privately-owned dumpsters, if allowed, and insurance and liability
coverage, and costs affiliated with disposal of construction waste and cost of hauling solid waste to
the facility in Ault, CO.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek provided information on sanitation disposal
costs.  Main motion, as amended, ca rried.  V oting “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present with the exception of Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
 
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b)  of the Chey enne U nified
Development Code (UDC), amending the qualifying area for notification mailings for Sections 2.1.4,
2.2.1, 2.2.2, 2.2.4 & 2.3.2.  B oyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, raised his concerns that the
change may promote more p otential petitions and add c onfusion between state statute and loc al
requirements re garding the  no tification a rea.  D onald Ja mes Pe rrott Ma cneil c ommented in
opposition to t he ordinance.  M r. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Com ment followed that although the amending ordinance does not having the same
notification radius distance as state statute, it will help a neighborhood know about development
actions in the area.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 6.08.030, Animals Running at L arge Prohibited, of
Chapter 6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, of the Code of
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook). 
ORDINANCE - Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation all for the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 2015 and ending June 30, 2016  -- referred to Committee of the Whole (sponsor --
Mr. Brown).
ORDINANCE - Approving and establishing revised water rates, sewer rates, tap and system
development fees, administrative fee s, service charges and pe nalties and septic a nd commercial
waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 4 065, annexing to the City  of Chey enne,
Wyoming, land situated in the North 286.5 feet of Tract 36, Cheyenne Irrigated Gardens, 2  Filing;nd
NW¼SE¼SW¼ of Section 4; and a portion of Sections 4 and 5, T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramieth
County, Wyoming (located north of E. Fox Farm Road, between Morrie Avenue and Avenue C-4) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE -Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MUB Mixed-Use with
Business E mphasis f or a ll o f L ot 5  and the west 13 feet o f L ot 6 , B lock 3 86, O riginal C ity,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of E. Lincolnway and House
Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook). 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial to NR-3 Neighborhood
Residential - High Density and CB Community Business for a portion of Sections 4 and 5, T.13N.,
R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Morrieth
Avenue and E. Fox Farm Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Adopting the City of Cheyenne’s Comprehensive Consolidated Plan 2015-
2019, prepa red by the Chey enne Housing  and Community  Deve lopment Office .  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5670)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submission of a Business Ready Community, Community
Readiness Grant application to the Wyoming Business Council on behalf of the Cheyenne Regional
Airport Board for the new Airport Terminal Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5671)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A pproving the budget of the Downtown Development Authority/Main
Street for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2015 and ending June 30, 2016.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5672)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Amending Resolution No. 5626 authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk
to sign a Final Plat for Scenic Development, situated in a portion of the NE¼SE¼  of Section 20,
T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, (located west of and adjacent to Converse Avenue,th
north of Dell Range Boulevard) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropr iating the Fiscal Year 2015 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Pershing
Subdivision, 4  Filing, a replat of portions of Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Ruth Addition; a portion ofth
Block 5, Mountview Park; and portions of the SE¼ of Section 29, NE¼ of Section 32, and the NW¼
of Section 33, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Chey enne, Wyoming (located along existing Pershingth
Boulevard right-of-way between Dunn Avenue and Converse Avenue) -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Instructing the City  Clerk to defe r acceptance of applications for  any
additional liquor licenses, as authorized to the City pursuant to provisions of Wyo. Stat. §12-4-101,
until a time frame in which to submit applications has been determined by the Governing Body of
the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporti ng the submittal of a n application for  grant funding under the
Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery Discretionary Grant Program (TIGER
2015) for partial funding of the construction of ‘The Christensen Project: A Bridge to Prosperity’ --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Luna).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a Wy oming Rural Publi c Transportation Program Gr ant, for the  purpose of
assisting in providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit
Program, as authorized by  49 U.S.C. § 531 1 -- referred to Fina nce Committee (sponsor  - - Mr.
Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Endorsing an application to be submitted by the Wyoming Department of
Transportation, under the “Transportation Investments Generating Economic Recovery” (“TIGER”)
Competitive Grant Program of the United States Department of Transportation, for grant funding
for a portion of the costs of construction of a rail car repair facility to be located in Cheyenne,
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor  -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Ab solute Shredding for
document destruction services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6325)
[CA] Contract betwe en the City  of C heyenne, Sanitation Division, and Clean Ha rbors
Environmental Services, Inc. for hazardous waste disposal services at the Cheyenne Household
Hazardous Waste Facility (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $200,000.00). (#6326)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the
City of Torrington, Wyoming, Police Department, for law enforcement extraterritorial assistance.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6327) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use of
the Cheyenne Civic Center for the 2015-2016 Concert Season -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra  for use
of the Cheyenne Civic Center for Youth Education Concerts -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of  Un derstanding betwe en the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 to prov ide transportation services for the
City’s Summer Recreation Camp Program -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City prisoners at the Laramie County
Detention Center -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department,
and Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects for the Transfer Station Update Phase 2 and 3 Design
(1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax, State Loan & Investment Board Grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee.  
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Tourism Promotion
Joint Powers Board, d/b/a Laramie County Convention and Visitors Bureau and Visit Cheyenne, for
the distribution of a percentage of lodging tax revenues to the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Finance
Committee.  
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of Wyoming for dental benefits
plan for city employees -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for health benefits plan
for city employees -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Cash-In-Lieu of Open Space Agreement pursuant to § 4.4.2.b.,4., of the Unified Development
Code of the City of Cheyenne, between the City of Cheyenne and Thomas Heights, LLC -- referred
to Public Services Committee.  
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to City Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne and
Recco, Inc., d/b/a Five-R Co., to establish the Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP) for the Cheyenne
Botanic Gardens Conservatory Expansion & Renovation Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use
Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6219) 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to City  Contract No. 6000 be tween the City of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and AVI Professional Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for additional
construction management services for the Logan Avenue Reconstruction Design Project (2011-2014
1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $162,597.24). (#6000)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5511 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and TriHydro Corporation for environme ntal monitoring a t the Happy  Jack
Landfill (Solid W aste F und).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (am ount not to ex ceed
$220,380.00). (#5511)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5927 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and AV I Professional Corpora tion, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a dditional
professional services to complete the Polk Avenue Project (Greenway Funds).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $12,700.00). (#5927)
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #M-17-15 for a contract between the Ci ty o f Cheyenne, 1%
Construction Division, and JTL Group, Inc., d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Fiscal
Year 2015 City Overlay Part 2 Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (accept bid in an amount not to exceed $1,344,527.40). (#6328)
Consideration of B id #M-26-15 for  a contr act between the City of Chey enne, Facilities
Maintenance Division, and Ameri-Tech HVAC Service s, I nc. of Chey enne, Wy oming, f or
Mechanical and HVAC System Maintenance for 14 City Buildings.  Mr. Brown declared a conflict
of interest (business interest) and vacated Council Chambers.  Victor Ciccone questioned whether
other businesses had the opportunity to submit bids.  Sara Vasquez, Purchasing Division, advised
bids were issued to 18 different companies with only one bid (Ameri-Tech HVAC Services) being
received.  Donald James Perrott Macneil commented on the Belvoir Ranch and displayed a poster
board of family photos.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to accept the bid of
Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $295,800.00, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Vasquez confirmed there have been other instances where only one bid,
or no bids, have been received as a result of a request for bids being issued, and reviewed state
statute bid notification require ments and the City ’s bid proce ss.  Mike Wright, Fa cilities
Maintenance, explained monitoring r equirements involving a 24 hour /7 days a we ek basis, and
advised the bid format and upgrades to include equipment is reviewed prior to issuance of the bid
documents.  Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, stated a two year contract is
preferable as it allows for mor e consistency and less administrative ove rhead, and Mr. Wrig ht
confirmed contra ct servic es ar e all inclusive, including  materia ls, maintenance  and compa ny
employees’ time.  Mr. Shanor moved to ame nd by changing the term of the c ontract to one year
instead of two, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Dan White, City Attorney, expressed his concern as to
whether, legally, it was permissible to alter what had been included in the bid documents.  Motion
to amend failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.
Main m otion carried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll m embers of  the  g overning bo dy pr esent i n Co uncil
Chambers with the e xception of Mr . Shanor an d Ms. Williams vot ing “ no”.  F ollowing
announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers. (#6329)
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #R-27-15 for furnishing and installing one new wireless portable 18,000
lb. lift with corded backup for the City of Cheyenne, Fleet Maintenance Division (2011 - 2014 1%
Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-23-15 for  a co ntract betwee n the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and Intermountain Slurry Seal, Inc., North Salt Lake City, Utah, for the Fiscal
Year 2015 Slurry Seal Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-24-15 for furnishing four new medium/heavy-duty transit buses for
the Transit Division (Federal Transportation Administration Transit Development Grant) -- referred
to Finance Committee
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointment of Matt Pope to t he Board of Public
Utilities, to be confirmed May 26, 2015.
Announcement was made that due to the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 25, 2015,
the regularly scheduled meeting of the Governing Body will instead be held on Tuesday, May 26,
2015 beginning at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 26, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, for a social club limited retail liquor license application
filed w ith t he C ity C lerk’s o ffice f or C heyenne L ittle Theatre P layers, 2 11 W . L incolnway,
Cheyenne, WY.
Under other business, Ms. Williams commented on complaints and letters she had received
from users of the new ly remodeled Cheyenne Aquatic Center, and he r observation of mowing
maintenance involving certain areas of the Greenway.
There b eing no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 7:53 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 May 22, 2015