MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-05-26 | CLIP_ID: 483 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 483

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
May 26, 2015
Due to the Memorial Day holiday, the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne instead met
in regular session on this date beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR
- Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook (arriving at 6:01 p.m.), Mr.
Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Ms. Williams.  Absent:  Mr. Shanor and Mr. Valdez.
Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and John Ridge, Deputy City Attorney.  The pledge of
allegiance was recited, led by members of the Mayor’s Youth Council.
EXPRESSION OF APPRECIATION TO MAYOR’S YOUTH COUNCIL AND STATE OF
THE YOUTH REPORT.  Alex Cole, Chair of the Mayor’s Youth Council, reported on the group’s
activities and learning experiences during the past year, which included showing of a video Youth
Council m embers ha d ma de on  bu llying pr evention.  Jan  Spi res, Ma yor’s Yo uth Cou ncil
Coordinator, commended members of  the 2014-2015 Youth Council on their c ommitment and
involvement and assisted Mayor Kaysen in presenting Certificates of Appreciation to the following
Youth Co uncil me mbers p resent a t t he me eting: A lex Co le, Ca roline A lston, A ngel A ntunez,
Elizabeth Babbitt, Alex Farkas, Alexis Ferrari, Liam Guille, Rachel Moseley, Yvette Moyte, Emily
Piel, Jason Weber, Darnell Wheeler and Katelyn Williams. Ms. Spires noted that members Molly
Black and Aly Rowe were unable to be present, and that former member Shayna Engdahl was unable
to serve for the entire 2014-2015 term.  Mayor Kaysen expressed appreciation to members for their
time, commitment and dedication, and also to members’ families for their support.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Ms. Williams, and pursuant to support received
by Dr. Rinne and Mr. Cook , agenda item #21 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request
by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by Ms. Williams and Dr. Rinne, agenda item #29(e)
was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda
items, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.
 
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on May  11, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell-
Doyle Chevrole t) and vaca ted Council Chambers.  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove pa yment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Upon inquiry regarding a voucher payable to
Waste Management for tipping costs for transporting waste to Ault, CO, Vicki Nemecek, Public
Works Director, and Mayor Kaysen provided information pertaining to the inquiry.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present in Council Chambers.  Following
announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Ka ysen o pened a  Pub lic He aring fo r a  so cial c lub limited r etail l iquor lic ense
application f iled w ith th e Ci ty Cl erk’s o ffice f or Ch eyenne L ittle Th eatre Pl ayers, 2 11 W.
Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY.  Rory  Mack, President, Cheyenne Little Theatre Players (CLTP),
provided a brief background on the CLTP organization, advising the g roup provides live the ater
performances in two different locations in Cheyenne.  He explained the liquor license request is for
use at the Atlas Theater location, and will provide additional amenities for attendees at performances
as well as revenue for the CLTP.  Also speaking in favor of the application were Brenda Lyttle, John
Lyttle, and Edward Melko.  Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, provided information on
social club application and licensing requirements pursuant to state statute, and clarified if the CLTP
is approved for the license, liquor sales may only be conducted by the CLTP for its members and
guests.  She advised a limited (club) liquor licensee can not conduct sales as a package store and is
not eligible to apply for off-site catering permits.  There being no further comments and the purpose
of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the item to Finance
Committee.
ORDINANCE - Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee Schedule.  Speaking in
opposition to proposed increases contained in the fee schedule were: Brad Harrington, Major Dorr,
Edward Melko, Ba rbie Ha rrington, Chasity  Schulz, W illiam Benne tt, St acy L ynne, M. L ee
Hasenauer, Rick Poach, Victor Ciccone, Joe Hardy and Betty Scranton.  Landon Brown encouraged
consideration of the initial ordinance which proposed an 8% fee increase.  Comments included the
following topics: Sanitation revenue utilized for city’s general fund; use and status of solid waste
management fund; opposition to f ee increases; sanitation operational c osts, and projec t and
equipment needs; increases to re sidents involving other living  expenses; purpose of pur chasing
Belvoir Ranch; DEQ pe rmits; accountability , use and a uditing of sa nitation fund; dumpster
containers; minimum fees assessed to those generating low waste volumes; concerns with sanitation
operations and rates; allowing trash and recycling containers in alleys; issuing bids for consideration
of privatizing sanitation services; selling the Belvoir Ranch to assist with sanitation/landfill costs;
concerns with expanding current Happy Jack Landfill; hiring of outside consultant to evaluate and
provide  recommendation on the amount of fee increases, and limiting government growth.   Upon
inquiry during comments, Mayor Kaysen provided general information relative to D EQ landfill
permits.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal advised there was no recommendation from
Finance Committee on the item.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded
by Mr. Brown.  In response to comments and inquiry regarding earmarking of funds related to tire
shredding fees, Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, advised she was not aware of a current
special fund in place for that purpose.  Further comments followed regarding previously adopted
resolutions pertaining to the solid waste manag ement special fund, and status of the le ase of the
Belvoir for a wind farm.  In response to comments and inquiry, Mayor Kaysen provided an update
on the lease involving a wind farm project.  Mr. Luna moved to postpone the ordinance to June 8,
2015, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Ms. Lynne, Mr. Melko, Mr. Harrington, Ms. Harrington, Joan
Schaefer Poach, Mr. Bennett and L anden Brown provided comments on the motion to postpone.
Discussion followed and included annual City financial audits conducted by an independent firm;
acquiring additional information on topics that had been raised prior to voting on the ordinance on
final reading; suggestion of forming a committee to review the solid waste fund; history of sanitation
fees supporting other City departmental services, and required DEQ landfill permits.  Motion to
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal and Ms. Williams.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen. 
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:50 p.m. 
 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Sec tions 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b) of the Cheyenne U nified
Development Code (UDC), amending the qualifying area for notification mailings for Sections 2.1.4,
2.2.1, 2.2.2, 2.2.4 & 2.3.2.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms. Williams m oved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Comment was made that the ordinance
will provide for better uniformity.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present. (#4069)
ORDINANCE - A mending Se ction 6.08.030, Animals Running at L arge Prohibited, of
Chapter 6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, of the Code of
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Ms Williams moved to approve on second reading, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  
ORDINANCE - Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation all for the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 2015 and ending June 30, 2016.  Joe Dougherty, Transit Director, referenced that
portion of the budget proposing a 2% salary increase for city employees, and requested consideration
of increasing the amount to assist with retaining employees.  Ann Picot, Chair, Mayor’s Council for
People with Disabilities (MCPD), reviewed the mission and purpose of MCPD, and the committee’s
services as an advisory council.  She reviewed funding requests that had been submitted and stated
the Council is requesting consideration of increased financial funding in the budget to pay for such
items as the Council’s promotional and office supplies, member services, website hosting, and to
attend related symposiums involving ADA topics.  Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Dr. Rinne
moved to approve  on second  reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to a mend by
removing the ombudsman position ($65,000.00) from the Mayor’s administrative budget, including
related benefits and taxes, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Lois Huff, City Treasurer, provided a memo
and propose d amending  ordin ance to the g overning body  which included c hanges per
recommendations made at the Committee of the Whole meeting.  She clarified if the ombudsman
position were removed the money would stay in general fund reserves.  Motion car ried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by removing a new
senior planne r posi tion ($101,139.00, salar y and bene fits) from the D evelopment De partment
administrative budget, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Ms. Huff noted removal of the position would
result in funds remaining in general fund reserves.  Comments followed in opposition to removal of
the position due to adequa te staff ing levels ne eded f or the c reation of the new D evelopment
Department.  Upon inquiry , May or Ka ysen st ated that the splitting of the Planning  Service s
Department to implement the new De velopment Department did not result in an equa l split of
funding based on staffing and line item needs per department.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr.
Luna, Mr. Roybal and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson,  Dr. Rinne
and Mayor Kaysen.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by increasing the Professional Services line item
in the Belvoir Ranch operation section of the Solid Waste Fund by $100,000.00 from the general
fund for a total amount of $140,000.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Ms. Huff proposed that instead
of funding the increased amount from the Solid Waste Fund, a better source of funding would be
from general fund re serves with the amount being  placed in a spec ial line item (within special
projects) in the General Fund Miscellaneous budget instead of the Solid Waste Fund, explaining any
funds in the spec ial projects line item would be rolled over  into a future budg et(s).  D r. Rinne
accepted a friendly amendment to his motion to move the $100,000.00 to a special line item of its
own under special projects as proposed by Ms. Huff, with concurrence by Mr. Roybal as second to
the motion and with no objection from other members of the governing body present. It was noted
the $100,000.00 is to begin preliminary work on providing access areas to the Belvoir Ranch and
related infrastructure.  Upon inquiry, Matt Ashby, Planning Services Director, advised staff will need
direction from City Council on how to move forwa rd priority-wise in expending the funds.  Mr.
Ashby commented that the Belvoir Ranch Master Plan contains information on development of the
ranch, and stated suc h issues as public ac cess, security, construction of tra il heads, and se rvices
needed for public access and use will need to be discussed.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present.  Upon inquiry regarding the proposed budget for the
MCPD, Ms. Huff stated there is $400.00 allotted to help with MCPD expenses, noting the City has
other advisory committees for which limited dollars are utilized for minimal expenses, and explained
any donations received or fund-raising efforts conducted by the MCPD can be credited to a 210 line
item account.  Upon inquiry, Rich Wiederspahn, Human Resources Director, clarified he has utilized
funds in the past from the ADA line item in his budget to attend workshops or symposiums relating
to ADA as part of his responsibilities as the City’s designated ADA Coordinator, and that he has
approved use of monies from his budget, if available, for the MCPD purposes.  It was noted in-kind
services and supplies have also been provided to the MCPD through the Mayor’s office.  Comment
followed on the Ma yor’s Youth Council’s budg et.  Ms. Wil liams moved to amend to add a n
additional $5,200.00 (for a total amount of $5,600.00) to the Human Resources general fund budget
for MCPD expenses, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Discussion followed on ongoing costs for the MCPD
website and items that are not provided for budget-wise for other City advisory committees; concern
with establishing a funding precedent for other boards and committees; acquiring further explanation
of the MCPD funding request, and funding utilized for the Youth Council.  Motion to amend failed.
Voting “yes”  -- Mr. Cook and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna,
Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mayor Kaysen.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advised that pursuant to
amendments being approved at the meeting, the budge t ordinance will be re vised to include the
amendments for the next committee meeting.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by taking $125,000.00
from general fund reserves and placing it in the Special Projects/Parking Division budget to hire 3.5
people over the next year to assist with m onitoring the Spiker Parking  Structure f or safety and
security purposes, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Discussion followed on providing a personnel presence
in the structure during evening/early morning hours; that $125,000 is a preliminary figure; possibility
of utilizing private security services or Police Department Community Service Officers; discussing
the topic further at the next C ommittee of the Whole meeting , and sec urity concerns.  Motion
carried.  Voting  “yes” -- Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Ro ybal, Ms. Williams and May or Kaysen.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Luna.  Ms. Williams moved to amend to provide
for hiring one additional full-time staff  person for the Nuisance Control offi ce within the police
department’s budget in the amount of $36,000.00, plus benefits and taxes, with money to come from
the general fund reserves, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Brief discussion followed on further research of
Nuisance Con trol o ffice need s, including sta ffing le vels.  Mo tion f ailed.  Vo ting “ yes” -- Ms.
Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and
Mayor Kaysen.  Main motion as amended three times carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.  A summary of the proposed budget, as amended, is as follows: General
Fund, $50,515,859; Weed and Pest, $510,834; Youth Alternatives Grants, $729,712; Development
Impact Fees, $151,175; Recreation Programs, $1,066,351; Community Development Block Grant,
$468,698; 1% Sales Tax Fund, $10,294,719; Law Enforcement Grants, $168,852; Transportation
Planning, $829,134; FTA Transit Grant, $2,580,607; Juvenile Justice, $214,868; Special Friends,
$151,103; Sp ecial Pu rpose Op tion T ax, $1 48,227; Y outh A ctivities, $5 9,910; G olf F acilities,
$205,350; Fleet Maintenance, $4,994,354; Solid Waste Management Fund, $15,597,064; Civic
Center, $984,880; Ice and Events Center, $575,652; Cemetery Perpetual Fund, $20,000 - Total City
proposed budget, $90,267,349.  Water Department, $25,770,600; Sewer Department, $12,784,500 -
Total Board of Public Utilities, $38,555,100.  Total proposed budget appropriation is $128,822,449.
ORDINANCE - Approving and establishing revised water rates, sewer rates, tap and system
development fees, administrative fee s, service charges and pe nalties and septic a nd commercial
waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities.  Joe Patterson, general building
contractor and president of the Southeast Wyoming Homebuilders Association, spoke in regard to
proposed fee increases and requested the Board research possible rebate or incentive programs to
assist with reducing consumer demands on infrastructure.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
ORDINANCE -  A mending O rdinance N o. 4 065, a nnexing to  th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne,
Wyoming, land situated in the North 286.5 feet of Tract 36, Cheyenne Irrigated Gardens, 2  Filing;nd
NW¼SE¼SW¼ of Section 4; and a portion of Sections 4 and 5, T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramieth
County, Wyoming (located north of E. Fox Farm Road, between Morrie Avenue and Avenue C-4).
Ms. Williams moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE -Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MUB Mixed-Use with
Business E mphasis f or a ll o f L ot 5  a nd the west 13 feet o f L ot 6 , B lock 3 86, O riginal C ity,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of E. Lincolnway and House
Avenue).  Ms. Williams moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial to NR-3 Neighborhood
Residential - High Density and CB Community Business for a portion of Sections 4 and 5, T.13N.,
R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Morrieth
Avenue and E. Fox Farm Road).  Ms. Williams moved to approve on second reading, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinan ce No. 4029 def ining the te rms and conditions of
employment for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsors -- Mr. Brown, Mayor Kaysen).
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 4030 de fining the terms and c onditions of
employment for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown, Mayor Kaysen).
ORDINANCE - A uthorizing the Issuance and Dire ct Purchase of the City  of Chey enne,
Wyoming Refunding Revenue Bonds (St. Mary’s School Project), Series 2015 in an aggregate
principal amount not to ex ceed $8,250,000 for the pur pose of r efunding the C ity’s outstanding
Variable Rate Revenue Bonds (St. Mary’s School Project), Series 2007; providing the form, terms
and conditions of such bonds, the manner of  execution thereof , and the method of  paying such;
prescribing other d etails conce rning said bonds, including but not limited to covenants a nd
agreements in connection therewith; authorizing the execution and delivery by the City of a loan
agreement, a trust indenture, closing documents and such bonds in connection therewith; authorizing
the sale of the bonds on a direct placement basis; ratifying action previously taken in connection with
the issuance and direct purchase of the bonds; and determining other matters related to the bonds --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Amending Resolution No. 5626 authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk
to sign a Final Plat for Scenic Development, situated in a portion of the NE¼SE¼ of Section 20,
T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, (located west of and adjacent to Converse Avenue,th
north of Dell Range Boulevard).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5673)
RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5674)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Pershing
Subdivision, 4  Filing, a replat of portions of Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Ruth Addition; a portion ofth
Block 5, Mountview Park; and portions of the SE¼ of Section 29, NE¼ of Section 32, and the NW¼
of Section 33, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located along existing Pershingth
Boulevard right-of-way between Dunn Avenue and Converse Avenue).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5675)
[CA] RESOLUTION - I nstructing the City  Clerk to def er acceptance of a pplications for a ny
additional liquor licenses, as authorized to the City pursuant to provisions of Wyo. Stat. §12-4-101,
until a time frame in which to submit applications has been determined by the Governing Body of
the City of Cheyenne.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5676)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting  the submittal of an applica tion for grant funding unde r the
Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery Discretionary Grant Program (TIGER
2015) for partial funding of the construction of ‘The Christensen Project: A Bridge to Prosperity’.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5677)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a  Wyoming Rural Publi c Transportation Program Grant, for the  purpose of
assisting in providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit
Program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. § 5311.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5678)
RESOLUTION - Endorsing an application to be submitted by the Wyoming Department of
Transportation, under the “Transportation Investments Generating Economic Recovery” (“TIGER”)
Competitive Grant Program of the United States Department of Transportation, for grant funding
for a portion of the cos ts of construction of a ra il car r epair facility to be locate d in Chey enne,
Wyoming.  Ma yor Kaysen advised the  applicant ha s requested the item be with drawn from the
agenda.  Upon query and with no objection being raised by members of the governing body present,
Mayor Kaysen stated the item was being removed from the agenda.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving Fund for an amount
not to exceed $1,300,000 for the Buffalo Ridge Tank Repair and authorizing the Mayor, the City
Clerk, and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and related loan
documents -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Amending Resolution No. 5399 pertaining to adoption of a revised
Cheyenne - Laramie County Board of Health fee schedule for various services and inspections --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Roybal).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use of
the Cheyenne Civic Center for the 2015-2016 Concert Season.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(revenue to City in the amount of $23,800.00). (#6342)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra  for use
of the Cheyenne Civic Center for Youth Education Concerts.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(in the amount of $6,500.00). (#6343)
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n t he City of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 to provide transpor tation services for the
City’s Summer Recreation Camp Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6344)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County Sheriff’s
Department and Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City prisoners at the Laramie County
Detention Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6345)
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department,
and Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects for the Transfer Station Update Phase 2 and 3 Design
(1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax, State Loan & Investment Board Grant).  Mr. Roybal moved
to approve in an amount not to exceed $1,032,300.00, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Comment followed
regarding funding of the project being affiliated with the sanitation fee ordinance for which final
approval action had been postponed earlier during the meeting.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone to
June 8, 2015, sec onded by Mr. L una.  Upon inquiry, Vicki Neme cek, Public Works Direc tor,
clarified a postponement would delay the start of the design for Phase 2 and 3 but would not harm
the project, and advised the project also involves funding through 6  penny optional sales tax, asth
approved by voters, and SLIB grant money.  She noted that if the sanit ation fee ordinance is not
approved, funding is available for design but would not be available for actual construction of the
building.  Upon inquiry, Craig LaVoy, Public Works Department, advised the SLIB grant requires
that expenditure of monies begins within the calendar year after the grant is received.  Motion to
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of
Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal voting “no”.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Tourism Promotion
Joint Powers Board, d/b/a Laramie County Convention and Visitors Bureau and Visit Cheyenne, for
the distribution of a perc entage of lodging tax revenues to the City  of Chey enne.  Motion (pe r
Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to City in the amount of $42,180.00). (#6346)
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of Wyoming for dental benefits
plan for city employees.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6347) 
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for health benefits plan
for city employees.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Roybal moved to
amend Exhibit  B, Sche dule of Premiums , by replacing the ra tes page and the  Group Contrac t
Addendum page, seconded by Mr. Luna.  I t was noted the replacement pages remove coverage
reference for retirees over the age of 65 as coverage is not included in the proposed contract. Upon
inquiry, Rich Wiederspahn, Human Resources Director, advised coverage for retirees over 65 has
not been offered for quite some time as retirees can acquire less expensive coverage through other
options.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#6348)
 
[CA] Cash-In-Lieu of Open Space Agreement pursuant to § 4.4.2.b.,4., of the Unified Development
Code of the City of Cheyenne, between the City of Cheyenne and Thomas Heights, LLC.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6349)
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between Laramie County, Wyoming, and the City of Cheyenne
-- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for United
States Department of the Air Force owned land located at  F.E. Warren Air Force Base  to be used
and operated as a parking lot for public transportation services during the 2015 Cheyenne Frontier
Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.
     
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., and Laramie County School District No. 1 for buse s owned by the Laramie County School
District No. 1 to be used and operated for public transportation services during the 2015 Cheyenne
Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.  
  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses owned
by the L aramie County School District No. 1 to be used a nd operated for public tr ansportation
services during the 2015 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.
  
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities during
the 2015 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 5 to Contract No. 6041 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and AP Wy oming, LLC, to reduc e held r etention to $5,000.00 for the
Municipal Pool Expansion Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #R-27-15 for furnishing and installing one new wireless portable 18,000
lb. lift with corded backup for the City of Cheyenne, Fleet Maintenance Division (2011 - 2014 1%
Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Ace Equipment and Supply
Co., Henderson, CO, in an amount not to exceed $39,975.00). 
[CA] Consideration of B id #M-23-15 for  a contr act be tween the  City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and Intermountain Slurry Seal, Inc., North Salt Lake City, Utah, for the Fiscal
Year 2015 Slurry Seal Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $398,400.00). (#6350)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-24-15 for furnishing four new medium/heavy-duty transit buses for
the Transit Division (Federal Transportation Administration Transit Development Grant).  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Davey Coach Sales, Sedalia, CO, in an amount not
to exceed $270,476.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-29-15 for furnishing approximately 75 new desktop computers and
operating systems for the Information Technology Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-28-15 for furnishing one new 2015 full size pickup with regular cab,
dual rear tires and two wheel drive for the City’s Traffic Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-30-15 for furnishing 100 1½ cubic yard refuse containers for the
City of Chey enne, Sanitation Division (Sol id Waste Manag ement fund)  -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee.
Re-Appointment of Matt Pope to the Board of Public Utilities.  Mr. Luna moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Roy bal.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee). 
Announcement w as ma de of  the  Re -Appointment o f D r. Richard Berry to t he Laramie
County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board, to be confirmed June 8, 2015.   
Announcement was made of the Appointments of James T. Bonds and Blithe McAndrew,
to the Historic Preservation Board, to be confirmed June 8, 2015.   
Announcement was made that two Calcuttas, benefitting Cheyenne area charities, will be
held as follows: Sunday, July 19, 2015 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in the Headquarters Tent located in
front of the Old West Museum, 4601 North Carey Avenue, Frontier Park, in conjunction with the
Championship Bull Ridi ng event, a nd Saturday , July 25, 2015 beg inning a t 5:30 p.m. in t he
Headquarters Tent located in front of the Old West Museum, 4601 North Carey Avenue, Frontier
Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the 2015 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration (10%
of proceeds to bona fide charities). 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, June 8, 2015 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and
Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2016.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 10:33 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 4, 2015