MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-06-08 | CLIP_ID: 485 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 485

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
June 8, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Valdez
and Ms. Williams.  Absent:   Mr. Shanor.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White,
City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by
Ms. Williams and Mr. Cook , agenda item #33(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
 
[CA] Minutes from R egular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on May  26, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Council Chambers.  Mr. Roybal moved to appr ove payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council C hambers with the exception of Ms. Wi lliams voting “no”.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.  
Mayor Kaysen opened a Public Hearing for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and
Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2016.  Lois Huff, City Treasurer, advised the initial budget
was presented to the governing body during a work session in April and has been further discussed
during the budg et ordinance approval process.  She provided a brie f overview of the  proposed
budget, noting, as of the last Committee of the Whole meeting, the general fund budgeted amount
is $50,448,859.00 and, including  special funds and  the Board of Public Utili ties’ portion of the
budget, the total appropriation amount is $128,755,449.00.  She advised per state statute the budget
must be approved within 24 hours after the public hearing and, following approval of the budget
ordinance, that it will become effective on J uly 1, 2015.  Randy  Hays, Board of Public Utilities
(BOPU), gave a brief overview of BOPU’s portion of the budg et, which invol ves the water and
sewer enterprise funds in the proposed amounts of $25,770,600.00 and $12,784,500.00 respectively.
Edward Melko spoke in opposition to inclusion of $100,000.00 in the budget related to the Belvoir
Ranch, and suggested funding be approved for a new scoreboard at Pioneer Park baseball field.  Ms.
Huff verified the $100,000.00 is included in a proposed substitute ordinance which will be presented
for final approval at the cur rent meeting. James Perrott  Macneil also spoke in opposition to t he
proposed funding for the Belvoir Ranch.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advised that the City and the
BOPU jointly own the Belvoir Ranch.  There being no further comments and purpose of the public
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE - Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee Schedule (postponed
from May 26, 2015).  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, provided information on rate study
recommendations; sanitation enterprise fund; recent resolution limiting transfer of revenues to the
general fund; proposed fee increases; capital project needs; history of the Happy Jack Landfill
Expansion Project and related solid waste topics.  Speaking in opposition to proposed fee increases,
or commenting on whether an increase was needed, were:  Rick Fierro, Brad Harrington, Barbie
Harrington, Major Dorr, M. Lee Hasenauer, Patrice Gapen, William Bennett, Victor Ciccone, Rick
Poach, Joan Shaffer Poach and Gabriel Pina.  Comments included the following topics: Sanitation
revenue supporting costs for City’s general fund operations; management and operational concerns
involving sanitation; recycling; privatization; landfill expansion; solid waste funds; rate increases
on taxpayers; selling City assets (i.e. Belvoir Ranch); base rate vs. overweight rate involving roll-off
containers; operational efficiency; opposition to fee increases; transparency; sanitation and landfill
project and equipment needs; other increases to residents involving living expenses; DEQ permits;
accountability; r ate str ucture; a llowing tr ash a nd re cycling c ontainers in a lleys; c oncerns w ith
expanding the current landfill; hiring of outside consultant to evaluate and provide recommendation
on the amount of fee increases, and limiting government growth.  Landon Brown spoke in favor of
the proposed fee increases to support the consultant’s recommendations to meet City needs.  Also
providing comments were: Edward Melko, commenting on better transparency of information to the
public; James Perrott , noting objection by  the City  to any  use of the B elvoir Ranch, a nd Donn
Edmunds, sugg esting the City  do more “ green” re cycling.  Mr. Brown re ported ther e wa s no
recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and
final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry regarding waiting on approving rate increases
for one year to review revenue amounts received, Mayor Kaysen provided information on past
proposed increases tha t have not bee n approved by the g overning body and advise d sanitation
operations, ser vices and project f inancing needs would continue to f all further behind wi thout
addressing the proposed ordinance.  Discussion followed on landfill life expectancy; prior approval
needed from DEQ to expand the landfill before the City may apply for any potential grant funding,
and RFP (Request for Proposals) procedures involved in any bid process for consultant services.  Mr.
Johnson moved to amend the solid waste fee schedule by increasing the rate from to 5% to 8% as
it was originally stated, seconded by Mr. Brown.  James Perrott Macneil commented in support of
recycling.  Discussion included the following topics: Suggestion of placing the landfill expansion
project on the next 6  Penny Sales Tax ballot and process utilized for consideration of ballot items;th
use of sanitation revenue for purposes other than sanitation, and review of rates by the governing
body that will occur next year.  Upon inquiry for information, Dr. Rinne provided a brief overview
of the procedures and process that is utilized for determining projects and items to be recommended
for 6  Penny ballot propositions.  In response to query, Dan White, City Attorney, stated that, in histh
view, the practice that has existed to transfer sanitation revenues into the general fund is a legal and
appropriate use of monies received.  Mayor Kaysen requested Mr. White research the topic further.
Motion to amend car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. J ohnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr.
Roybal and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Luna, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Comments
followed on sanitation  revenues supporting othe r nec essary City  service s, most of which are
“revenue neutral” offices; restriction by state statute regarding municipal revenue sources, and past
history of non-approval of rate increases or increases approved in minimal amounts.  Main motion,
as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal
and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Luna, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams. (#4070)
ORDINANCE - A mending Section 6.08.030, Animals Runnin g at Large Prohibited, of
Chapter 6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, of the Code of
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded
by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Dan White, City
Attorney, advised the amendment corrects a clerical error and clarifies standards involving animals
under restraint.  Motion to amend ca rried.  V oting “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present.  Main motion as amended by  substitut e ca rried.  V oting “ yes” - - all members of the
governing body present. (#4071)
Following a brief recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:35 p.m.
ORDINANCE - Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various
purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount of general and
special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation all for the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 2015 and ending June 30, 2016.  Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Dr. Rinne
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend
by removing $125,000.00 from the Special Projects Division line item for the proposed additional
3½  security staff positions for the Spiker parking structure, seconded by Mr. Brown.  It was noted
further research by the administration will be conducted regarding any other recommendations that
may be made for security measures at the parking structures.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Luna and Ms. Williams
voting “no”.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by adding $58,000.00 to the Special Projects Division line
item from general fund reserves for purchase and installation of security cameras for the Cox and
Spiker parking structures, seconded by Mr. Brown.  James Perrott Macneil expressed support for the
motion and commented on his anc estry heir status involving the  Belvoir Ranch.  May or Kaysen
requested Mr. Macneil keep his comments applicable to the motion on the floor. Discussion followed
on security measures in the parking  structures to assist with safety and vandalism concerns; pros and
cons of security cameras vs. police officer presence in the parking facilities, and current police patrol
coverage in the downtown area.  Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, provided information on
patrol activities.  Motion to amend ca rried carried.  Voting  “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr.
Roybal, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna and Ms.
Williams.  Ms. W illiams moved to amend by  increasing the ADA line item within the Human
Resources Division by $2,837.00 for a total of $3,237.00 to be utilized by the Mayor’s Council for
People with Disabilities, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Comment was made that the Mayor’s Council for
People with Disabilities currently has funding in the agency fund in the amount of $858.90 with an
additional $400.00 budgeted for FY2016 in the Human Resources Division’s ADA line item and the
amendment would increase the funding to provide a total amount of $4,095.90.  Discussion followed
on numerous other City committees that do not receive specific funding in the budget and concern
with setting a precedent; committees that have the ability to conduct fund-raising efforts, and budget
amount provided for purposes involving the Mayor’s Youth Council.  Motion to amend car ried.
Voting “yes” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Main motion, as amended three times,
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4072)
ORDINANCE - Approving and establishing revised water rates, sewer rates, tap and system
development fees, administrative fees, service charges and pe nalties and sep tic and c ommercial
waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities.  Joe P atterson, President,
Southeast Wyoming Homebuilders Association, spoke regarding conversing with Board of Public
Utilities staff about the possibility of implementing an incentive program for customers in an effort
to conserve water resources.  Tim Wilson, Director, Board of Public Utilities, advised staff is willing
to discuss the topic, and explained that rate increases, as well as some rate decreases, will go into
effect in July of this year and January of 2016.  James Perrott Macneil questioned the status of wind
farm development on the Belvoir Ranch and use of revenue received.  Mayor Kaysen stated that if
the wind farm project proceeds, revenues received will go into development of the property, and
reminded Mr. Macneil that his comments should be germane to the motion on the floor.  Mr. Brown
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present. (#4073)
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 4065, a nnexing to the City  of Chey enne,
Wyoming, land situated in the North 286.5 feet of Tract 36, Cheyenne Irrigated Gardens, 2  Filing;nd
NW¼SE¼SW¼ of Section 4; and a portion of Sections 4 and 5, T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramieth
County, Wyoming (located north of E. Fox Farm Road, between Morrie Avenue and Avenue C-4).
Following brief comment unrelated to the ordinance topic by James Perrott Macneil, Mayor Kaysen
requested Mr. Macneil be escorted from the building by a police of ficer who was present at the
meeting.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Willi ams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4074)
ORDINANCE -Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MUB Mixed-Use with
Business Emphasis for all of Lot 5 and the west 13 feet of Lot 6, Block 386, O riginal C ity,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of E. Lincolnway and House
Avenue).  Mr . Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4075)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial to NR-3 Neighborhood
Residential - High Density and CB Community Business for a portion of Sections 4 and 5, T.13N.,
R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Morrieth
Avenue and E. Fox Farm Road).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded
by Ms. Williams.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#4076)
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 4029 de fining the terms and  conditions of
employment for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne.  Mr. Brown moved to approve
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.  
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinanc e No. 4030 de fining the terms and c onditions of
employment for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present. 
ORDINANCE - A uthorizing the I ssuance and Dire ct Purchase of the City of Chey enne,
Wyoming Refunding Revenue Bonds (St. Mary’s School Project), Series 2015 in an aggregate
principal amount not to ex ceed $8,250,000 for the pur pose of r efunding the City ’s outstanding
Variable Rate Revenue Bonds (St. Mary’s School Project), Series 2007; providing the form, terms
and conditions of such bonds, the ma nner of execution the reof, and the method of  paying such;
prescribing other de tails conce rning said bon ds, including but not limited to covenants a nd
agreements in connection therewith; authorizing the execution and delivery by the City of a loan
agreement, a trust indenture, closing documents and such bonds in connection therewith; authorizing
the sale of the bonds on a direct placement basis; ratifying action previously taken in connection with
the issuance and direct purchase of the bonds; and determining other matters related to the bonds.
Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Chapter 5.12, Alc oholic Beverages, SectionST
5.12.060, Sales and Consumption - Restrictions, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of
the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to sales and consumption of alcoholic liquor and malt beverages
within Frontier Par k -- r eferred to Finance Committee (sponsors - - Mr. B rown, Dr. Rinne, Mr.
Roybal).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving Fund for an amount
not to exceed $1,300,000 for the Buffalo Ridge Tank Repair and authorizing the Mayor, the City
Clerk, and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and related loan
documents.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5679)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A mending Res olution No. 5399 pertaining to adoption of a  revised
Cheyenne - L aramie County Board of Health fee schedule for various services and inspections.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5680)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding with the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming to submit
a joint application for a grant award under the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant
Program -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Ratifying the listing of Cheyenne’s Dubois Block Historic District on the
National Register of Historic Plac es and a uthorizing the addition of ele ven structures contained
therein to the Cit y’s inventory  of historic structure s -- re ferred to Public Service s Commi ttee
(sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting  the applica tion of th e City of Chey enne for Transportation
Alternatives Program (TAP) Funding continuation of the greenway system specifically a soft surface
trail in Southeast Chey enne (Greenway funds) -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr.
Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Directing the Purchasing Division of the City of Cheyenne to proceed with
the sale of  a 1986 Cater pillar motorgrader pursuant to W .S. 15-1-112 (a) -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Waterford
Square, a replat of t he N orth 2 86.5 fe et o f T ract 3 6, C heyenne Irri gated Ga rdens, 2  Fi ling;nd
NW¼SE¼SW¼ of Section 4; and a  portion of Sections 4 and 5, T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M.,th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Morrie Avenue and E.
Fox Farm Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of State Loan and Investment Board 2011-2012 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding in the
amount of $1,948.00 for the Laramie County Shooting Sports Complex Target System -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of State Loan and Investment Board Fiscal Year 2013-2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant
Funding in the amount  of $12,095.00 for the  L aramie County Shooting Sports Compl ex Target
System -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of State Loan and Investment Board Fiscal Year 2015-2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant
Funding in the amount of $35,202.00 for  the L aramie County Shooting Sports Complex  Target
System -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of State Loan and Investment Board Fiscal Year 2015-2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant
Funding in the amount of $16 0,000.00 for the Che yenne - Laramie County Health Department
parking lot -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Cer tifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with the
application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award of State
Loan and Investment Board Fiscal Year 2013-2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding in the
amount of $28,000.00 for a Public Works fleet vehicle for the Town of Pine Bluffs -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budget of the City of Cheyenne according
to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a partial release of that certain
mortgage dated May 2, 2014, granted to the City of Cheyenne by Granite Peak Development, LLC, that
secures repayment of that certain promissory note, dated May 2, 2014, made payable to the City of Cheyenne
in the principal sum of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Brown).
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department, and Noel
Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects for the Transfer Station Update Phase 2 and 3 Design (1% Specific
Purpose Sales & Use Tax, State Loan & Investment Board Grant).  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove in an
amount not to exceed $1,032,300.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Brown,
Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Valdez and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne
and Ms. Williams. (#6353)
[CA] Juvenile Housing  Ag reement between Laramie County, Wy oming, a nd the City  of Cheyenne.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6354) 
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for United States
Department of the Air Force owned land located at  F.E. Warren Air Force Base  to be used and operated
as a pa rking lot for public transportation services dur ing the 2015 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6355) 
     
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., and
Laramie County School District No. 1 for buses owned by the Laramie County School District No. 1 to be
used and operated for public transportation services during the 2015 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6356)   
  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses owned by the
Laramie County School District No. 1 to be used and operated for public transportation services during the
2015 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6357) 
  
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc.,
for the use of City-owned land and building s for parking, camping and other activities during the 2015
Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6358) 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Sanitation Division, and Waste Management
Disposal Services of Colorado, Inc., to a ccept permitted solid waste at the North Weld Landfill, Ault,
Colorado (Solid Waste fund) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal shelter
services -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal control
services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation  for Economic
Development (LEADS) for industrial and economic development services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Goat Green, LLC, for vegetation management along Dry
Creek (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Stride Learning Center to provide cooperative transit
services (revenue to City) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 5 to Cont ract No. 6041 betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and
Recreation Department, and AP Wyoming, LLC, to reduce held retention to $5,000.00 for the Municipal
Pool Expansion Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#6041) 
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-29-15 for furnishing a pproximately 75 new de sktop computers and
operating systems for the Information Technology Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from CDW Government, LLC, Vernon Hill, Illinois, in an amount
not to exceed $49,440.00).  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-28-15 for furnishing one new 2015 full size pickup with regular cab, dual
rear tires and two wheel drive for the City’s Traffic Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Spradley Barr Motors, Inc., Cheyenne, in an amount not to
exceed $36,627.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-30-15 for furnishing 100 1½ cubic yard refuse containers for the City of
Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid W aste Management fund).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried
(accepted bid from Wastequip Mfg . Co., St atesville, North Car olina, in an amount not to exceed
$37,000.00).
[CA] Social club limited retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office, for Cheyenne
Little Theatre Players, 211 W. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Re-Appointment of Dr. Richard Berry to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint
Powers Board.  Mr. Cook moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral
appointee).   
Appointments of James T. Bonds and Blithe McAndrew, to the Historic Preservation Board.  Mr.
Luna moved to appr ove, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of  the
governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
Announcement was made of the appointment of John D. Hall as City Engineer, to be confirmed June
22, 2015.
  Announcement was made of the appointment of Paul Pomeroy,to the Contractor Licensing Board,
to be confirmed June 22, 2015. 
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointment of Scott Cowley to the Cheyenne/Laramie County
Economic Development Joint Powers Board, to be confirmed June 22, 2015. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 22, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council
Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land of approximately 22.38 acres
situated in a portion of Tract 1, H and B Tracts, which is found in the NW¼ of Section 13, T.13N., R.66W.,
6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Southwest Driveth
and Interstate 80). 
Under other business:
The following item was introduced and referred to Finance Committee: Contract Modification No.
1 to Contract No. 6160 between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction Division, and S&S Builder’s, LLC,
for additional quantities required to complete the Fiscal Year 2014 Concrete Project for the Street and Alley
Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax). 
Tom Ostlund, Mary  Ostlund  and Ruthann Nor ris spoke about pa rking hardships they  wer e
experiencing and affiliated issues along Carey Avenue due to the implementation of bike  lanes.  Mayor
Kaysen advised he will confer with the City Attorney and staff to review the matter and potential options.
Ms. Williams requested consideration for evaluation of a portion of West Jefferson Road relative
to repairing the sidewalk, curb and gutter.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 9:29  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 22, 2015