MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-06-22 | CLIP_ID: 487 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 487

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
June 22, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown,  Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor,  Mr. Valdez
and Ms. Williams (arriving at 6:04 p.m.).  Absent: Mr. Cook.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City
Clerk, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor recused himself from participation in voting due to any
appearance of influence on Consent Agenda items involving Transportation Alternatives Program
(TAP) funding and the State Loan and Investment Board, and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna
moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the
vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers.
 
[CA] Minutes f rom Reg ular Mee ting of  the Gover ning Body on J une 8, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Roybal and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Tyrrell-Doyle Auto Center and Radio Stations KRAE and  KYOY respectively) and
vacated Council Chambers .  Mr. Shanor moved to a pprove payment of vouche rs as pre sented,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Valdez returned
to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a pu blic hearing to de termine whether compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land of approximately 22.38
acres situated in a portion of Tract 1, H and B Tracts, which is found in the NW¼ of Section 13,
T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M.,  Laramie County , Wy oming ( located a t the southeast cor ner of  theth
intersection of Southwest Drive and Interstate 80). [City Clerk note:  Mayor Kaysen noted for the
record that Ms. Wil liams had joined the mee ting in prog ress.]  J osh Tetzlaff, Planning  and
Development office, reviewed the undeveloped area proposed to be annexed, indicating re-zoning
and plat actions are affiliated with the annexation, and stated that requirements and compliance of
annexation conditions contained in state statutes had been met.  There being no further comments
or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinan ce No. 4029 def ining the te rms and conditions of
employment for non- uniformed e mployees of  the City  of Chey enne.  Re porting for F inance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4077)
ORDINANCE - A mending Ordinance No. 4030 def ining the te rms and conditions of
employment for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#4078)
ORDINANCE - Authorizing the I ssuance and Dire ct Purchase of the City  of Chey enne,
Wyoming Refunding Revenue Bonds (St. Mary’s School Project), Series 2015 in an aggregate
principal amount not to exceed $8,250,000 for the purpose of refunding the City’s ou tstanding
Variable Rate Revenue Bonds (St. Mary’s School Project), Series 2007; providing the form, terms
and conditions of such bonds, the ma nner of execution thereof , and the method of  paying such;
prescribing other de tails conce rning said bonds , including but not limited to covenants a nd
agreements in connection therewith; authorizing the execution and delivery by the City of a loan
agreement, a trust indenture, closing documents and such bonds in connection therewith; authorizing
the sale of the bonds on a direct placement basis; ratifying action previously taken in connection with
the issuance and direct purchase of the bonds; and determining other matters related to the bonds.
Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4079)
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Beverages, Section 5.12.060, Sales and
Consumption - Restrictions, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City
Code pertaining to sales and consumption of alcoholic liquor and malt beverages within Frontier
Park.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of Tract 1, H and
B Tracts, situated in the NW¼ of Section 13, T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming,th
to be known as Heiduck Addition Annexation (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of
Southwest Drive and Interstate 80) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding with the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming to submit
a joint application for a grant award under the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant
Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (RES #5681/CON #6362)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Ratifying the listing of Cheyenne’s Dubois Block Historic District on the
National Register of Historic Plac es and a uthorizing the addition of ele ven structures contained
therein to the City’s inventory of historic structures.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5682)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Support ing the application of the  City of Chey enne for Transportation
Alternatives Program (TAP) Funding continuation of the greenway system specifically a soft surface
trail in Southeast Cheyenne (Greenway funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5683)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Directing the Purchasing Division of the City of Cheyenne to proceed with
the sale of a 1986 Cater pillar motorgrader pursuant to W .S. 15-1-112 (a).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5684)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Waterford
Square, a r eplat o f t he N orth 2 86.5 fe et o f T ract 36, Cheyenne I rrigated Ga rdens, 2  Fi ling;nd
NW¼SE¼SW¼ of Section 4; and a por tion of Sections 4 and 5, T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M.,th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Morrie Avenue and E.
Fox Farm Road).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Johnson moved to adopt with staff
conditions #1 and 2, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Johnson moved to postpone to July 13, 2015,
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of State Loan and Investment Board 2011-2012 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding in the
amount of $1,948.00 for the Laramie County Shooting Sports Complex Target System.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5685)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of State Loan and Investment Board Fiscal Year 2013-2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant
Funding in the amount of $12,095.00 for  the  L aramie County Shooting Sports Compl ex Target
System.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5686)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of State Loan and Investment Board Fiscal Year 2015-2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant
Funding in the amount of $35,202.00 f or the L aramie County Shooting Sports Compl ex Target
System.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5687)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of State Loan and Investment Board Fiscal Year 2015-2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant
Funding in the amount of $160,000.00 for  the Chey enne - Laramie County Health Department
parking lot.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5688)
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of State Loan and Investment Board Fiscal Year 2013-2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant
Funding in the amount of $28,000.00 for a Public Works fleet vehicle for the Town of Pine Bluffs.
 Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5689)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5690)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a partial release of that
certain mortgage dated May 2, 2014, granted to the City of Cheyenne by Granite Peak Development,
LLC, that secures repayment of that certain promissory note, dated May 2, 2014, made payable to
the City of Cheyenne in the principal sum of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5691)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting Liquor License General Guidelines for the review and evaluation
of applications for a retail liquor license available through the City of Cheyenne, and establishing
a time fra me in which applica tions may be submitted to the City  Clerk -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Contract be tween th e City of  Che yenne, Pu blic Wor ks Sanitation D ivision, a nd Was te
Management Disposal Services of Colorado, Inc., to accept permitted solid waste at the North Weld
Landfill, Ault, Colorado (Solid Waste fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6363)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
shelter services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $320,000.00). (#6364)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
control ser vices.  Motion (p er Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed $185,000.00).
(#6365)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for
Economic Development (LEADS) for industrial and economic development services.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $50,000.00). (#6366)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Goat Green, LLC, for vegetation management
along Dry Creek (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $51,500.00). (#6367)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Stride Learning Center to provide cooperative
transit services (revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City in the
amount of $59,572.00). (#6368)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and  Safe Harbor, A Children’s Justice Center,
to provide a safe and supportive environment for abused and neglected children -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness Center, Inc., Alcohol Receiving
Center, to provide mental health and substance abuse services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide services
as described in the Older Americans Act of 1965 as amended -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United States of America for limited hunting
within the boundaries of the Central Great Plains Field Station -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization
and Olsson Associates for the Cheyenne Regional Freight Mobility Plan (MPO Planning funds) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department,
and Un ited Wa y of L aramie Cou nty fo r T echnical A ssistance to H uman Se rvices Co mmunity
Programs (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Airport Board for land to be used
for the Weed and Pest Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Airport Board for land to be used
for the Street and Alley and Compost Divisions (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Airport Board for land to be used
for P arks a nd Re creation so ftball a nd ba seball f ields (2 015-2018 1%  Sa les T ax) - - referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment Number One to Contract No. 6171 between the Wyoming Department of Family
Services and the City  of Chey enne, O ffice of Youth Alterna tives, reg arding the provision of
Diversion Services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment Number One to Contract No. 6238 between the City of Cheyenne, Office of
Youth Alternatives, and Wyoming Department of Family Services regarding the provision of
Prevention Services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for Employee Risk Sharing
Program for the term of July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016 -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ashley Hope Carlisle for the purchase of a
sculpture exhibiting an enlarged Western Salsify Flower to be placed in the roundabout intersection
at the entrance to South High School -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Downtown Development
Authority for parking spaces in the downtown parking garage -- referred to Finance Committee.
Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 6160 betwee n the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and S&S Builder’s, LLC, for additional quantities required to complete the
Fiscal Year 2014 Concrete Project for the Street and Alley Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax). 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $86,376.77). (#6160)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 5 to Contract No. 6115 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI
Constructors of Wy oming, LLC, to modify  the time for substantial and f inal completion of the
Cheyenne Public Safety Center Project, and authorizing the use of construction contingency funds
for additional construction management services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-32-15 for furnishing one new hydraulic excavator and one new 30
ton articulated dump truck for the City’s Landfill Division (Solid Waste Management) -- referred
to Finance Committee.
Appointment of John D. Hall as City Engineer.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by
Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee).
  Appointment of Paul Pomeroy,to the Contractor Licensing Board.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee).
Re-Appointment of Scott Cowley to the Cheyenne/Laramie County Economic Development
Joint Powers Board.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not
vote (Mayoral appointee). 
[CA] Request to approve an additional dispensing room for City of Cheyenne Limited Retail
Liquor Licensee Fraternal Order of Eagles Aerie #128, located at 1600 Thomes Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Commitee. 
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Allison Anderson and Kiersti Willms, to
the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board, to be confirmed July 13,
2015.
Under other business, Frank Cole expressed his concerns regarding mowing of prairie grass
along a portion of the Greenway off Dell Range Blvd., suggesting mowing for the season not begin
until wild flowers had stopped blooming.  He submitted photos of the area (on file in office of City
Clerk) in conjunction with his comments.  Ms. Williams requested review of mowing operations in
several South Cheyenne areas, noting that not everything is being completely mowed.
There being  no further  business t o come before the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:18  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 June 29, 2015