MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-07-13 | CLIP_ID: 490 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 490

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
July 13, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor,
Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Also  present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.  U pon request by Ms. Williams, and pursuant to support being
received by Mr. Shanor and Mr. Cook, agenda items #19 (c) (d) (e) (g) and (h) were removed from
the Consent Agenda.  Roybal moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on June 22, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers
as pre sented, sec onded by  Mr. Valde z.  Mot ion car ried.  Voting  “y es” - - all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
  
ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Beverages, Section 5.12.060, Sales and
Consumption - Restrictions, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City
Code pertaining to sales and consumption of alcoholic liquor and malt beverages within Frontier
Park.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4080)
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of Tract 1, H and
B Tracts, situated in the NW¼ of Section 13, T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming,th
to be known as Heiduck Addition Annexation (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of
Southwest Drive and Interstate 80).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Upon inquiry, Casey Palma, Steil Surveying
Services, agent for owner, advised there are no current plans as to proposed use of the property and
that annexation is to assist  with making the  property available for future industrial use.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from HI Heavy Industrial to AG Agricultural for Lot 2,
Block 1, Chey enne B usiness Parkway , Eighth Filing, Che yenne, Wy oming ( located be tween
Campstool R oad and I -80, west of Campstool R oad) -- referred to Public Service s Commi ttee
(sponsor - Mr. Cook). 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from HI Heavy Industrial to LI Light Industrial for Lots 2-4,
and HI Heavy Industrial to AG Agricultural for Lot 5, Block 1, Cheyenne Business Parkway, Ninth
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (replat in process) (located north of and adjacent to Campstool Road,
west of Commerc e Circle) -- r eferred to Publi c Servic es Committ ee ( sponsor - Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt t o Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b)  of the Chey enne U nified
Development Code (UDC), Amending Article 6,  Design Regulations, Section 6.5.8, Billboards, for
the purpose of establishing which zoning districts allow billboards -- r eferred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
CHARTER ORDINANCE - Establishing the position of City Administrator and exempting
the City of Cheyenne, as a First Class City, from certain sections of the Wyoming Statutes -- referred
to C ommittee of  the  Who le (s ponsors - Mr. Cook, M r. L una, M r. Roy bal, M r. Sha nor, Ms.
Williams).  Under other business, it was noted that, due to the City’s schedule during Cheyenne
Frontier Days, the Committee of the Whole meeting would be held Tuesday, July 21, 2015 at 6:00
p.m. in City Council Chambers.
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Waterford
Square, a r eplat of the North 2 86.5 fe et o f T ract 3 6, C heyenne Irri gated Ga rdens, 2  Fi ling;nd
NW¼SE¼SW¼ of Section 4; and a portion of Sec tions 4 and 5, T.13 N., R.66W ., 6  P.M.,th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Morrie Avenue and E.
Fox Farm Road) (postponed from June 22, 2015).  Kelly Hafner, Benchmark Engineers, agent for
the applicant, requested a postponement of the item to allow time to finaliz e a Memorandum of
Understanding affiliated with the Final Plat.  Dr. Rinne  moved to adopt with staff conditions #1 and
2, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to July 27, 2015, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting Liquor License General Guidelines for the review and evaluation
of applications for a retail liquor license available through the City of Cheyenne, and establishing
a time fra me in which applica tions may be subm itted to the City  Clerk.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5692)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne to the
Wyoming B usiness Council’s Business Rea dy Communi ty, Communi ty Enhanc ement Gr ant
Program, to assist in funding the West Edge Streetscape and Civic Center Commons Project --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION -Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a Wyoming Cultural Trust
Fund Grant Agreement for Phase 1-A Stabilization of the Warren Rest House in Holliday Park --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Whereby the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne authorizes a special
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Election to be he ld October 20, 2015 as
provided by Wyo. Stat. §15-9-217 (b) which, upon affirmative majority vote of the qualified voters
within the district, will authorize a special assessment of twenty (20) mills upon real property within
the district, excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, for a period of four (4)
years -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for a replat of all of Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 3, Block 1, Saddle Ridge
Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of US Highway
30 and Whitney Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Preliminary Plat for platting a portion of the E½ of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M.,th
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Pershing Boulevard
and Christensen Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and  Safe Harbor, A Children’s Justice Center,
to provide a safe and supportive e nvironment for a bused and ne glected children.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $12,000.00). (#6372)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness Center, Inc., Alcohol Receiving
Center, to provide mental health and substance abuse services -- referred to Finance Committee.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $85,000.00). (#6373) 
Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide services
as described in the Older Americans Act of 1965 as amended.  Mr. Brown moved to approve in an
amount not to exceed $45,000.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemecek, Public
Works Director, provided information on services provided to recipients.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#6374) 
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United States of America for limited hunting
within the boundaries of  the Cen tral Great Plains Field Station.  Mr. Brown move d to approve ,
seconded by Mr. L una. It was advised the  limit ed hunting area was located at the ag ricultural
experimental station off Round Top Road.  Upon inquiry , Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, provided
information involving limited hunting provisions, noting purpose of the agreement is to assist with
controlling the deer population in the are a.  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. (#6375) 
Professional Services Agreement between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization
and Olsson Associates for the Cheyenne Regional Freight Mobility Plan (MPO Planning funds).  Mr.
Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Tom Mason, MPO Direc tor,
provided an explanation of the termination clause  contained in the a greement.  Motion carr ied.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.
(#6376)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department,
and Un ited Wa y of L aramie Cou nty fo r T echnical A ssistance to H uman Se rvices Co mmunity
Programs (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed
$500,000.00 (2 year agreement in the amount of $250,000.00 annually)). (#6377) 
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Airport Board for land to be used
for the Weed and Pest Division (2015-2018 1% S ales Tax).  Mr. Brown moved to approve in an
amount not to exceed $15,000.00 (4 year agreement in the amount of $3,750.00 annually), seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Comments followed on leasing the property vs. locating City-owned property and
constructing a building for the Weed and Pest Division and affiliated cost, and community services
provided by the Division, which is not a revenue generating Division.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#6378)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Airport Board for land to be used
for the Street and Alley and Compost Divisions (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Mr. Brown moved to
approve in an amount not to exceed $131,24 8.00 (4 year agreement in the amount of $32,812.00
annually), s econded b y M r. R oybal.  I n re sponse t o i nquiry, M ayor K aysen ad vised fi nding a
different location for current operations at the leased site would be cost prohibitive based on the size
of area needed and distance from businesses/residences, and provided information on the mobile
trailer and porta-potties on site for  employee accommodations.  Upon inquiry , Vicki Neme cek,
Public Works Director, provided further information on year ‘round composting operations; use of
port-potties for employees as there is no existing sanitary sewer system in the nearby area, and non-
ADA accommodation issues as customer service is provided outside at customers’ vehicles.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams
voting “no”.  (#6379)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Airport Board for land to be used
for Parks and Recr eation softball and ba seball fields (2015- 2018 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to ex ceed $98,752.00 (4 y ear agreement in the amount of
$23,438.00 annually)). (#6380)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and WINhealth Partners for Employee Risk Sharing
Program for the term of July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#6381) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ashley Hope Carlisle for the purchase of a
sculpture exhibiting an enlarged Western Salsify Flower to be placed in the roundabout intersection
at the entrance to South High School.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed
$20,000.00). (#6382)
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Downtown Development
Authority for parking spaces in the downtown parking garage.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(revenue to City  in an amount not to exceed $152,920.00 (3 y ear agreement i n the amount of
$52,920.00 annually). (#6383)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for School Resour ce Officers for the 2015-2016 school y ear -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and DHM Design for the
West Edge Area Wide Planning Grant Project (EPA B rownfield Area Wide Pl anning Grant) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 5 to Contract No. 6115 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI
Constructors of Wy oming, LLC, to modi fy the time for substantial and f inal completion of the
Cheyenne Public Safety Center Project, and authorizing the use of construction contingency funds
for additional construction management services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6115)
[CA] Amendment Number One to Contract No. 6171 between the Wyoming Department of Family
Services and the City  of Chey enne, O ffice of Youth Alterna tives, reg arding the provision of
Diversion Services.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (revenue to the City in the amount of
$315,600.00). (#6171)
[CA] Amendment Number One to Contract No. 6238 be tween the City of Cheyenne, Office of
Youth Alterna tives, and Wy oming De partment of F amily Services r egarding the provision of
Prevention Services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City in the amount of
$265,200.00). (#6238)
 [CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6222 between the City of Cheyenne, Fire and
Rescue Department, and Richardson Construction, I nc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the F ire and
Rescue/Police Department Storage Building Project to add a required fire separation wall (Impact
Assistance fund) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 5 to Contract No. 5781 between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for additional strategic grant writing services to enable securing of additional grant funding
for the Cheyenne West Edge (Lower Capital Basin) Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax)
-- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-32-15 for furnishing one new hydraulic excavator and one new 30
ton articulated dump truck for the City’s Landfill Division (Solid Waste Management).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Wyoming Machinery Company, Cheyenne, WY, in an
amount not to exceed $309,375.00, which includes trade-ins).
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-35 -15 for f urnishing one  new 30 y ard r oll-off truc k for the
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #R-31-15 for furnishing two new ten yard tandem dump trucks with
spreader and snow plow for the Street & Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration o f B id # E-4-16 fo r o ne ne w m otorized tr ash c ompactor fo r t he L andfill
Division (Solid Waste Management) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Appointments of Allison Anderson and Kiersti Willms to the Laramie County Community
Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board.  Mr . Shanor moved to appr ove, seconded by Mr. L una.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
[CA] Request to approve an addi tional dispensing room for City of Cheyenne Limited Retail
Liquor Licensee Fraternal Order of Eagles Aerie #128, located at 1600 Thomes Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 27, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the
City Clerk's Office, for East Coast Pizza - Frontier, LLC d/b/a East Coast Pizza, 1400 Dell Range
Boulevard, Space 80, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 27, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, for a transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license
application filed w ith the Cit y Clerk' s Offic e for  Ch eyenne Club, I nc., 1617 Capitol Avenue ,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (License formerly held by  JKLL, Inc. d/b/a Dr unken Skunk, 1617 Capitol
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Announcement was made of the Re-appointments of Wallace Erickson and Alane M. West
to the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority Board (DDA), to be confirmed July 27, 2015.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 27, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Ch ambers, 2 101 O ’Neil A venue, Ch eyenne, Wy oming, f or a  mic robrewery pe rmit
application f iled w ith the  City  Cle rk's O ffice fo r D anielmark’s B rewing Com pany, I nc. d /b/a
Danielmark’s Brewing Company, Inc., 209 E. 18  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming. th
Under other business, Ms. Williams expressed concerns involving the women’s rest room
facilities at the Converse softball field; drainage issues at West Leisher and Stanfield, and reported
on a complaint she had received from a resident involving curb and gutter installation.  In response
to comments, Todd Feezer, Assistant Director, Parks and Recreation Department, noted he would
follow up on the conc erns regarding the re st ro oms; Nathan B eauheim, Acting City  Engineer,
advised staff is reviewing the West Leisher/Stanfield site to determine the f easibility of potential
improvements, and Mayor Kaysen noted he was aware of the complaint involving curb and gutter
installation.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting w as
officially adjourned at 6:42 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 23, 2015