MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-07-27 | CLIP_ID: 492 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 492

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
July 27, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne (arriving at 6:05 p.m.), Mr.
Roybal, Mr. Shanor,  Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.   Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor recused himself from participation in voting due to any
appearance of influenc e on a Consent Ag enda item potentially  involving the State L oan and
Investment Board, and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve Consent Agenda
items, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council
Chambers. 
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on July 13, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and Radio Station KYOY-FM respectively) and vacated
Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr.
Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Valdez returned to Council
Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for the purpose of receiving comments and input for
a restaurant liquor li cense application filed w ith the Cit y Clerk's Office, for East Coast Piz za -
Frontier, LLC d/b/a East Coast Pizza, 1400 Dell Range Boulevard, Space 80, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
David Ketcham spoke in opposition to issuance of a license due to the presence of minors at Frontier
Mall where the restaurant is located.  Hannah Garcia, owner of East Coast Pizza, provided a brief
history of th e family restaurant business; noted they  have the  support of mall manag ement and
security to provide alcohol services, and discussed signage that will be placed to advise customers
of consumpti on boundaries.  Ca rol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised the property lease agreement
between the applicant and Frontier Mall management contains a provision allowing for the sale of
alcohol.  Upon inquiries, Ms. Ga rcia provided infor mation on al cohol services that would be
provided; the consumption area and TIPS training for servers, adding that the family also operates
an East Coast Pizza location at a mall in Colorado and there have been no issues concerning their
alcohol license at that establishment.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and referred the item to Finance
Committee. 
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for the purpose of receiving comments and input for
a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Cheyenne Club, Inc., 1617
Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License formerly held by JKLL, Inc. d/b/a Drunken Skunk,
1617 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  There being no comments or input and purpose of the
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and referred the item to Finance
Committee. 
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for the purpose of receiving comments and input for
Danielmark’s Brewing Company, Inc. d/b/a Da nielmark’s Brewing Company, Inc., 209 E. 18 th
Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Speaking in suppor t of  the application were:  John Ha yhoe,
commenting on family oriented amenities proposed to be provided by the applicant, and Brandon
Swain, local realtor, noting the property is within the Central Business District zone, which does not
require (off  st reet) par king, a nd that the business location will provide “w alkability” to other
businesses in the downtown ar ea.  Paul Warntz, President, Danie lmark’s B rewing, pr ovided
information on the family business; se rvices to be  offered in a ddition to a mi crobrewery
manufacturing and malt beverage dispensing area; proposed hours of operation, and involvement of
local businesses supporting the application.  Melinda McCorkle, Kline, McCorkle and Pilger Law
Office, attorney representing Alice Northcutt, adjacent property owner, expressed concerns regarding
potential outside noise and lack of parking in the area; proposed that conditions be placed on the
permit with regard to hours of operation and consumption locations involving outdoor activities in
the back yard; submitted photos of the area (on file with office of City Clerk); cited provisions of
state statute regarding City Council’s authority to put restrictions and conditions on a liquor permit,
commenting that conditions could be applied on a “year after year basis”, and discussed the
applicant’s timi ng on construction re modeling vs. a cquiring a City  building per mit.  Barba ra
Laybourn, speaking on behalf of Alice Northcutt, provided a brief background of the historical nature
of the ne ighborhood; discussed the apartment building  her f amily owns in close proximi ty and
anticipated effect of the business on tenants, and requested restrictions on hours be placed on the
permit.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Warntz advised their plan is to have an outdoor consumption area and
provide outdoor music at times; provided information on proposed days/hours of operation (Sunday-
Thursday 3:00-9:00 p.m.; Friday  and Saturda y 2:00-10:00 p.m.), and stated h e had circulated a
petition in the neighborhood and acquired signatures in support of the business, indicating he would
provide a copy of the petition to the City Clerk’s office for distribution to the governing body.  Upon
further inquiry, Mr. Warntz provided information on changes that will be made to the garage at the
back of the property which will serve as the microbrewery manufacturing location.  Upon inquiry,
Ms. McCorkle stated the restrictions for hours they are requesting would be consistent with what is
listed on the permit application.  Carol  Intlekofer, City Clerk, clarified the application is to seek
approval for the microbrewery manufacturing facility and the dispensing room where malt beverages
will be sold, and that there is no provision in state statute or city code requiring the applicant to state
where they may allow consumption of malt beverages on their private property.  There being no
further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the
public hearing and referred the item to Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of Tract 1, H and
B Tracts, situated in the NW¼ of Section 13, T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming,th
to be known as Heiduck Addition Annexation (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of
Southwest Drive and Interstate 80).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- a ll
members of the governing body. (#4081)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from HI Heavy Industrial to AG Agricultural for Lot 2,
Block 1, Chey enne B usiness Parkway , Eig hth Filing, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located be tween
Campstool Road and I -80, west of Campstool R oad).  Mr . Cook moved to approve on se cond
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from HI Heavy Industrial to LI Light Industrial for Lots 2-4,
and HI Heavy Industrial to AG Agricultural for Lot 5, Block 1, Cheyenne Business Parkway, Ninth
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (replat in process) (located north of and adjacent to Campstool Road,
west of Commerc e Circle).  Mr. C ook moved to approve  on second r eading, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - P ursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b)  of the Chey enne U nified
Development Code (UDC), Amending Article 6,  Design Regulations, Section 6.5.8, Billboards, for
the purpose of establishing which zoning districts allow billboards.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Logan Graves, Planning Office, reviewed
zoning district types where billboards would be allowed, and noted there are different thresholds for
the size and height of a billboard de pending upon location.  Upon in quiry, Brandon Cammarata,
Development Director, advised a sign located on 8  Avenue is not a billboard sign and does not fallth
under the ordinance.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
CHARTER ORDINANCE - Establishing the position of City Administrator and exempting
the City of Cheyenne, as a First Class City, from certain sections of the Wyoming Statutes.  Major
Dorr raised concerns regarding the proposed change of duties of an elected official; whether there
is a need to have a mayor if there is a city administrator, and taking away some of the city’s first class
authority.  Landon Brown, spoke in support of  the ordinance, commenting that an ad ministrator
would provide for an objective vs. political point of view.  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group,
spoke about the importance of democracy through the election process for City officials; need for
checks and balances; concern with curtailing the mayor’s veto authority and having municipal judges
selected by an administrator; may or’s role  and veste d interested in duties a s a re sident in the
community; accountability, and additional costs associated with a city administrator.  Speaking in
support of the Char ter Ordinance were:  Tar a Nethercott, Woodhouse, Roden, Nether cott Law
Office; Max Minni ck, President, Chey enne Board of Realtors; Pete L aybourn; Linda Weppner,
Century 21 Be ll Real Estate, and D ale Steenbe rgen, President, Grea ter Cheyenne Cha mber of
Commerce.  T opics dis cussed included: State statute a nd Wy oming Constitution provisi ons
involving the Charter Ordinance’s proposed exception from certain provisions of statutes applicable
to Cheyenne as a first class city; administrator position replacing the role of mayor; support of the
ordinance to provide for a vote by the people to determine whether to implement an administrator
position; trained professional’s knowledge and expertise that can be provided by an administrator
position; improving City management to be more effective, and Chamber of Commerce’s role in past
municipal candidate forums inquiring  about intere st in pursuing a City Administrator position.
Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Mr . Ro ybal.  D iscussion in cluded th e fo llowing top ics: D etermination o f d uties of a  City
administrator vs. elected mayor position and salaries; special referendum election costs to the City;
proposed Char ter Or dinance being  patterne d afte r other Wy oming municipa lities that have
administrator positions; administrator as a professional contract position, and future mayor positions
still being elected on an at-large basis.  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised the cost of the special
election, per information received from the Laramie County Clerk, is estimated to be not be more
than $30,000.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend Sections 5 and 6 in the ordinance to change the election
date from November 3 to November 10, 2015, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to amend carried.
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments followed regarding the governing
body proposing a special election vs. a petition process as provided by law; difference between a City
Manager form of government and a City administrator position; mayor’s authority, and allowing
electors to decide w hether to move forwa rd with a City  administrator position.  Main moti on as
amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the go verning body with the exception of Mr.
Brown and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”.  During comment by Mayor Kaysen involving education of
voters on the topic, Mr. Shanor a nd Dr. Rinne ea ch ra ised a point of orde r that the may or’s
comments (as chair) were not appropriate.  Mayor Kaysen concurred with the point of order.
ORDINANCE - Pu rsuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1.b. of the Che yenne U nified
Development Code (UDC), amending Section 2.2.4.b,  Conditional Use Approval,  Applicability --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 7 of Ordinance No. 4020 to provide for the removal of
the sunset clause affiliated with Subsection 2.3.4.b.3, Administrative Adjustment, of the Cheyenne
Unified Development Code (UDC) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE  - Amending Section 1.4.3, Defined Terms, repealing and re-enacting Chapter
3.2, Drainage Impact Studies, and repealing Appendix H of the Chey enne Unified Development
Code (UDC) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Waterford
Square, a replat of the Nor th 286.5 fee t of Tra ct 36, Chey enne I rrigated Ga rdens, 2  Filing;nd
NW¼SE¼SW¼ of  Section 4; and a portion of Sections 4 and 5, T.13N., R.66W., 6  P.M.,th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Morrie Avenue and E.
Fox Farm Road) (postponed from June 27, 2015).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5693)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne to the
Wyoming Business Council’s Business Rea dy Communi ty, Communi ty Enhanc ement Gr ant
Program, t o a ssist i n f unding the  Wes t E dge Str eetscape and Civ ic Ce nter C ommons Pr oject.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5694)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a Wyoming Cultural Trust
Fund Grant Agreement for Phase 1-A Stab ilization of the Warr en Rest House in Holliday  Park.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5695)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Whereby the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne authorizes a special
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Election to be he ld October 20, 2015 as
provided by Wyo. Stat. §15-9-217 (b) which, upon affirmative majority vote of the qualified voters
within the district, will authorize a special assessment of twenty (20) mills upon real property within
the district, excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, for a period of four (4)
years.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5696)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cheyenne
Business Parkway, Eighth Filing, a replat of Lot 1, Block 3, Chey enne Business Parkway, Third
Filing; a portion of the SE¼ of Section 36, T.14N., R.66W.; and a portion of the NE¼ of Section 1,
T.13N., R.66W.,  6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Campstool Road and Interstateth
80, west of Campstool Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cheyenne
Business Parkway, Ninth Filing, a replat of Lot 2, Block 4, Cheyenne Business Parkway, First Filing;
Lots 1-3, Block 1, Cheyenne Business Parkway, Fifth Filing; and a portion of the SW¼ of Section
36, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to Campstoolth
Road, west of Commerce Circle) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - To support and adopt the recommendations of the Cheyenne Transportation
Safety Management Plan -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the Transfer Station
Upgrade Phase ll -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for a replat of all of Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 3, Block 1, Saddle Ridge
Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of US Highway
30 and Whitney Road).  Motion to acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation to
approve (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for platting a portion of the E½ of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M.,th
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Pershing Boulevard
and Christensen Road).  Motion to acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation to
approve (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for School Resource Officers for the 2015-2016 school year.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (revenue to the City in the amount of $466,135.44). (#6387)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and DHM Design for the
West Edge  Are a Wide Planning Gr ant Project (EPA B rownfield Area  Wide Pl anning Gra nt).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $255,000.00). (#6388) 
[CA] Hunter Management Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department,
and the Wyoming Game and Fish Commission for the Lone Tree Hunter Management Area on the
Belvoir Ranch -- referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, Victim Witness Program,  and
the State of Wyoming, Division of Victim Services, for services to victims of crime -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Ashley McInelly, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee.  
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Brenda Johnson, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee.  
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Leslie Burch, for crime victim a ssistance services (Victim Services grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee.  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, and Laramie County, Wyoming, for a Laramie
County Combined Communications Center -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 [CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6222 between the City of Cheyenne, Fire and
Rescue Department, and Richard son Construction, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the F ire and
Rescue/Police Department Storage Building Project to add a required fire separation wall (Impact
Assistance fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $8,070.00).  (#6222)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 5 to Contract No. 5781 between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for additional strategic grant writing services to enable securing of additional grant funding
for the Cheyenne West Edge (Lower Capital Basin) Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $70,000.00). (#5781)
[CA] Consideration of B id #R-35-15 for f urnishing one  new 30 y ard r oll-off truc k for the
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
bid from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $135,699.00). 
 
Consideration of Bid #R-31-15 for furnishing two new ten yard tandem dump trucks with
spreader and snow plow for the  Street &  Alley Division (2011 - 2014 1 % Sales Tax).  Vicki
Nemecek, Public Works Director, advised none of the bids submitted met all of the specifications
and requested rejection of all bids.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to reject
all bids, seconded by Mr. Valdez.  Discussion followed on the bid process and clarification of bid
information.  Upon inquiry , Ms. Nemec ek provide d information on bi ds submitt ed and sta ff
procedures relative to bid clarifications; noted the need to treat all bidders equally, and advised that
the vehicles/equipment will be re-bid with no anticipated changes to bid specifications.  Motion to
reject all bids carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr.
Brown and Mr. Luna voting “no”.
[CA] Consideration o f B id # E-4-16 fo r o ne ne w m otorized tr ash c ompactor fo r t he L andfill
Division (Solid Waste Manag ement). Motion (pe r Consent Ag enda) carried (accepted bid from
Wyoming Machinery Company, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $605,805.00, including a
trade-in). 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-1-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction
Division, and Top Job, LLC, Mendon, Utah, for  Fiscal Year 2016 Slurry Seal Project (2011 - 2014
1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-2-16 f or a c ontract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Kolbe Striping, Inc., Castle Rock, Colorado, for 2015 City of Cheyenne Pavement
Markings Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #M-20-15 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corporation  & Subsidiary, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the West Lincolnway
Streetscape, Phase 2 Landscape & Irrigation Project (2011 - 2 014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-2-16 for furnishing one new 2015 Yard Hook Lift Truck for the
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Re-appointments of Wallace  Erickson a nd Al ane M. W est to the Chey enne Downtown
Development Authority Board (DDA).  Dr . Rinne moved to a pprove, seconded by Mr. Roybal.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Charlotte Powers and Dave Teubner, to
the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority Board (DDA), to be confirmed August  10, 2015.
[CA] Annual Report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements made at the Airport
Golf Course as required by Lease Agreement – referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 10, 2015, at 6:00 P.M. in
the City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, to determine whether compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land of approximately 65.25
acres situated in a portion of the E½ of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County,th
Wyoming, to be known as Saddle Ridge, 8  Filing Annexation (located north of and adjacent to Eastth
Pershing Boulevard, west of Christensen Road).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 10, 2015, at 6:00 P.M. in
the City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, to determine whether compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land of approximately
20,909 square feet situated in a portion of L ot 6, all of Lots 7 & 8, and the west 12 feet of L ot 9,
Block 2, plus that adjacent 8 feet of vacated alley, Coulson Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located north of and adjacent to Rawlins Street, west of McCann Avenue).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 10, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, for a transfer of ownership and transfer of location for a
retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Robert W. Moberly, 1600 East
Pershing Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License formerly held by W. E. Dinneen, I nc., 1610
Pioneer Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
There being  no further  busin ess to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:59  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 August 7, 2015