MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-08-10 | CLIP_ID: 494 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 494

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
August 10, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne (arriving at 6:13 p.m.), Mr.
Roybal, Mr. Shanor,  Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.   Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and
Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor recused himself from participation in voting due to any
appearance of influence on a Consent Agenda item involving the State Loan and Investment Board,
and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on J uly 27, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Inquiry was made concerning vouchers payable
to the following: All Bright Windows (window washing at the Cox and Spiker Parking Structures);
Arbico Organics (fly control produc ts for Weed a nd Pest Division), and I ndoff, Inc. (furniture
replacement for City Engineer’s office).  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, provided information relating
to the voucher to All Bright Windows, and Mayor Kaysen provided information on the vouchers
payable to Arbico Organics and Indoff, Inc.  Approval of the vouchers carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote,
Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to determine w hether compliance of anne xation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land of approximately 65.25
acres situated in a portion of the E½ of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County,th
Wyoming, to be known as Saddle Ridge, 8  Filing Annexation (located north of and adjacent to Eastth
Pershing Boulevard, west of Christensen Road).  Josh Tetzlaff, Development office, advised a final
plat is an affiliated action with the proposed annexation and that staff conditions are recommended
in conjunction with the annexation, and stated that re quirements and c ompliance of annexation
conditions contained in state statutes had been met.  D onn Edmunds voiced concerns regarding
drainage issues based on topography conditions, exhibiting two maps he referred to during his
comments, and requested the developer refrain from building houses on the immediate north side
of Pershing Blvd. and instead implement drainage detention measures in that area. [City Clerk note:
Dr. Rinne joined the meeting]   Also expressing concerns with the proposed development affiliated
with annexation of the property were Sean Larson and Nancy Norman.  Concerns expressed included
drainage; density of housing units; effect on property values; proposed re-zoning of a portion of the
property for residential vs. initially planned commercial use, and close proximity of housing to
existing residential homes.  James Perrott Macneil stated his opposition to annexations generally.
John Edwards, Saddle Ridge Subdivision developers, submitted two maps of the area to be annexed
and referred to them during his comments regarding the development project; briefly reviewed the
subdivision’s development history and elements, including a Greenway path and a site for a new
school, planned for the 8  and 9  final plat filings, and provided information on drainage studies,th th
patterns and plans.  Mr. Edw ards responded to inquiries regarding the new school, drainage area
maintenance, and notification to and communication planned with residents in the vicinity.  There
being no further comments or input and purpose  of the he aring having been met, Mayor Kaysen
closed the public hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to determine w hether compliance of anne xation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land of approximately
20,909 square feet situated in a portion of Lot 6, all of Lots 7 & 8, and the west 12 feet of Lot 9,
Block 2, plus that adjacent 8 feet of vacated alley, Coulson Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located north of a nd adjac ent to Rawlins Street, west of Mc Cann Avenue).  Jos h Tetzlaff,
Development office, advised a zone change action is affiliated with the proposed annexation and that
the applicant wishes to hook to the City’s sewer system, noting a connection to water is already in
place, and stated requirements and compliance of annexation conditions contained in state statutes
had been met.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been
met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for the purpose of receiving comments and input for
a transfer of ownership and transfer of location for a retail liquor license application filed with the
City Clerk's Office, for Robert W. Moberly, 1600 East Pershing Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(License formerly held by W. E. Dinneen, Inc., 1610 Pioneer Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Art
Hansen, investor with Robert Moberly, applicant, explained they are interested in revitalizing the
property in the west portion of the building where Gold’s Gym is located, and stated they plan to
operate a small martini bar with a package store.  Upon inquiry, he explained a signed property lease
will be finalized if the application is approved.  There being no further comments or discussion and
purpose of the hea ring having been me t, Mayor Kaysen closed t he public hearing.  Under  other
business, Mayor Kaysen referred the item to Finance Committee.
 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from HI Heavy Industrial to AG Agricultural for Lot 2,
Block 1, Chey enne B usiness Parkway , Eig hth Filing, Che yenne, Wy oming (loca ted betwe en
Campstool Road and I-80, west of Campstool Road).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Ms.
Williams moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4082)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from HI Heavy Industrial to LI Light Industrial for Lots 2-4,
and HI Heavy Industrial to AG Agricultural for Lot 5, Block 1, Cheyenne Business Parkway, Ninth
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (replat in process) (located north of and adjacent to Campstool Road,
west of Commerc e Circle).  J ames Perrott Macneil spoke in opposit ion to all development and
annexation actions generally.  Ms. Williams moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded
by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4083)
 
ORDINANCE - Pursua nt to Sections  1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b) of  the Chey enne U nified
Development Code (UDC), Amending Article 6,  Design Regulations, Section 6.5.8, Billboards, for
the purpose of establishing which zoning districts allow billboards.  Ms. Williams moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body. (#4084)
CHARTER ORDINANCE - Establishing the position of City Administrator and exempting
the City of Cheyenne, as a First Class City, from certain sections of the Wyoming Statutes.  Pursuant
to inquiry from Major Dorr regarding whether the City’s status as a First Class City is affected by
provisions contained in the Charter Ordinance, Dan White, City Attorney, explained that certain
statutes set forth in the ordinance would not apply to the City, if the ordinance is approved and voters
pass the ballot question, and that the City’s status as a First Class City will not change.  Upon further
inquiry by Mr. Dorr, it was noted that the ordina nce will not affect the City’s ability to apply for
loans and grants; that the City Administrator would be considered a full-time city employee position,
and that members of th e g overning bo dy wo uld no t f all u nder t he “ instruction” of  a  City
Administrator.  Marguerite Herman, speaking on behalf of the League of Women Voters, referenced
an email she had  submitted to m embers of the g overning body regarding procedural questions
involving clarification of information pertaining to a City Administrator position.  S he requested
consideration of a postponement to provide for public education on the proposed statutes from which
the City would b e e xempt, d uties a nd r ole o f a  C ity A dministrator, a nd f or a dditional p ublic
discussion.  J ames Perrott Macneil spoke in fa vor of a  City Administrator position.  Ed Strader
voiced his objection to a special election due to the cost and timing of the election (i.e. non-general
election y ear).  B oyd Wigga m, Wyoming L iberty Group, stated his opinion that the Charte r
Ordinance could be improved, especially those provisions relative to mayoral appointments to boards
and committees, and echoed Ms. Herman’s request to postpone. Sara Vasquez, Cheyenne Public
Employees Association, advised the association is not opposed to submitting the question of a City
Administrator position to voters but encouraged voters to do their homework to educate themselves.
Landon B rown spoke in supp ort of the Charte r Ordina nce pr oviding f or a City  Administrator
position and moving forward with the election, noting answers to questions could be provided prior
to the election.  Joe Patterson, local builder and President of the Southeast Wyoming Homebuilders
Association; Linda Weppner, Century 21 Real Estate, and Dale Steenbergen, President and CEO,
Cheyenne Chamber of Commerc e, spoke in fa vor of a  Ci ty Administrator position and letting
citizens vote on the issue.  Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Mr. Shanor moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by substitute,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, clarified the proposed amendment changes
the number of times (from three to two) the Charter Ordinance will be published in the newspaper
in accordance with provisions of the Wyoming Constitution.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by striking the reference to Wyo. Stat.
§15-3-207 in Section 1, and by striking Section 2, Subsection C in its entirety and re-lettering the
remaining subsections, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  It was noted that the proposed amendment will allow
the mayor to contin ue to appoint municipal cour t judges.  Mr. Wigg am spoke in support of the
amendment.  Motion ca rried.  V oting “yes” -- all member s of the gov erning body.  Discussion
followed on salary compensation of the mayor if serving as a temporary City Administrator; timing
of hiring an administrator relative to the effective date of the Charter Ordinance, if voters approve
the special referendum election ballot question, and that it would not nece ssarily need to be  the
mayor who would se rve a s a  te mporary a dministrator.  M r. Whit e c onfirmed th at if  a  City
Administrator position is created an elected mayor position would still be in place and that, pursuant
to state statute, a change in salary compensation of municipal elected officials can not occur during
their term of office.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend Section 2, Subsection E (new Subsection D per re-
lettering due to the previous amendment) by changing two references to “City Administrator” to
instead re ad “Ma yor” w ith regard to a ppointing member s of City  boards, c ommissions and
committees, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body.  D iscussion c ontinued a nd in cluded th e f ollowing to pics: P etition p rocess v s. Ch arter
Ordinance initiating a spe cial election for e lectors to vote on the issue; time fr ame in which a n
election must be held under a petition process and option available to the governing body to call for
a sp ecial referendum election pursua nt to provisions contained in Article 13, Sec tion 1of the
Wyoming Constitution, and educating voters prior to the election date.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Intlekofer
clarified those eligible to vote in the special election would be qualified registered voters who reside
within the City’s boundaries.  Main motion (as amended three times) carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr.
Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” --
Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson and Mayor Kaysen.  (Charter Ordinance #1)
ORDINANCE - Pu rsuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1.b. of the Che yenne U nified
Development Code (UDC), amending Section 2.2.4.b,  Conditional Use Approval, Applicability.
Ms. Williams moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  U pon inquiry,
Brandon Cammarata, Development Director, provided information on the timing of actions that may
concurrently involve the Board of Adjustment and the governing body, noting that applicants would
be aware of the process, and advised the proposed change is pursuant to the a nnual UDC review
process.  Motion carried.  Voting “ yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson, Mr. L una, Mr. Roybal, Mr.
Shanor, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 7 of Ordinance No. 4020 to provide for the removal of
the sunset clause affiliated with Subsection 2.3.4.b.3, Administrative Adjustment, of the Cheyenne
Unified Development Code (UDC).  James Macneil voiced his opposition to any development and
annexation actions.  Ms. Williams moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.
In response to reference to information contained in the staff report submitted with the agenda item,
Brandon Cammarata, Development Director, explained that the proposed ordinance would keep the
maximum level of administrative adjustment at 50%, instead of returning it to 10%, and allows for
flexibility when wor king w ith developer s on possible site plan variance c omponents.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE  - Amending Section 1.4.3, Defined Terms, repealing and re-enacting Chapter
3.2, Drainage Impact Studies, and re pealing Appendix H of the C heyenne Unified Development
Code (UDC).  Ms. Williams m oved to appr ove on sec ond reading, seconded by Mr. J ohnson.
Request was ma de that a summar ized version of propose d changes to the dra inage chapter be
provided to City Council.  Nathan Beauheim, Assistant City Engineer, explained the goal of revising
the drainage chapter is to codify all understandings and interpretations into a single document, noting
staff has worked on drainage issues with professional engineering firms in the community  for many
years.  He stated the revised chapter will help with establishing procedures involving development
actions within the City, including re-development of properties, and will include a water quality
component. Discussion included potential costs to developers; guidance on federal requirements,
such as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and City projects involving drainage issues.
Upon inquiry, Mr. Beauheim advised the EPA has provided information on its required provisions.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:20 p.m.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Section 2.08.010, Appointment and Terms -ST
Removal - Va cancy, of Chapter  2.0 8, City Offic ers a nd Employ ees G enerally, of Title 2,
Administration and Personnel, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne to provide for the appointment
of the Director of the Development Department -- referred to Public Services Committee  (sponsor -
Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READI NG - Submitting to the qualified e lectors, a t a SpecialST
Referendum Election to be conducted on T uesday, November 10, 2015, the following  question:
“Shall Charter Ordinance No. 1 establishing the position of City Administrator and exempting the
City of Cheyenne, as a First Class City, from certain sections of the Wyoming Statutes, take effect?”
-- referred to Public Services Committee  (sponsors - Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor
and Ms. Williams).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Submitting to the qualified property owners of real propertyST
within the boundaries of the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, at a Special Election
on Tuesday, October 20, 2015, the following question: “Shall a special assessment of twenty (20)
mills be levied upon  the assessed value of  real property within the boundaries of  the Chey enne
Downtown Development Authority District, excluding real property used exclusively for residential
purposes, for a period of four (4) years pursuant to the provisions of Wyo. Stat. §15-9-217(b) for the
purposes of (1) administrative costs; (2) landscaping or maintenance of public areas; (3) planning
or management of development or improvement activities; (4) promotion of public events; and (5)
activities in support of business recruitment and development?” -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
 
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne
Unified D evelopment C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom MR -1 Me dium-Density
Residential-Established and NB Neighborhood Business to NB Neighborhood Business for the west
80 feet of Lots 49 and 50 and all those parts of the west 80 feet of Lots 47 and 48 lying and being
north of Randall Avenue, Block 7, Amended Plat of Holdrege’s Addition, Second Filing, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, to be known as Holdrege’s Addition, Fourth Filing (located at the northeast corner of the
intersection of Randall and Snyder Avenues) -- referred to Public Services Committee  (sponsor -
Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zon ing Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from NB Neighborhood Business
to CB Community Business for Lot 1, Block 1, Lowe Subdivision and Lots 1 & 2, Block 1, Good
Addition, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Dell Range
Boulevard and Ridge Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial to
LI Light Industrial for a portion of Tract 1, H and B Tracts, Cheyenne Wyoming, to be known as
Heiduck Addition (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Interstate 80 and Southwest
Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to
MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing for a replat of all of Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 3,
Block 1, Saddle Ridge, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Saddle Ridge, 7  Filing (located at theth
southeast corner of the intersection of US Highway 30 and Whitney Road) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion ofST
the E½ of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as Saddleth
Ridge, 8  Filing Annexation (located north of and adjacent to E. Pershing Boulevard, west ofth
Christensen Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and
Rural Residential to MR-2 Medium Density  Residential-Developing for a  portion of the E½ of
Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Saddle Ridge, 8  Filingth th
(located north of and adjacent to E. Pershing Boulevard, west of Christensen Road) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion ofST
Lot 6, all of Lots 7 & 8, and the west 12 feet of Lot 9, Block 2, plus that adjacent 8 feet of vacated
alley, Coulson Additi on, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to Rawlins
Street, west of McCann Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Pur suant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County MR Medium Density
Residential to MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing for a portion of Lot 6, all of Lots 7
& 8, a nd the west 12 fe et of Lot 9, Bloc k 2, plus that adjacent 8 fe et of va cated alley, Coulson
Addition, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Rawlins Street, west of McCann
Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
  
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cheyenne
Business Parkway, Eighth Filing, a replat of Lot 1, Block 3, Chey enne Business Parkway, Third
Filing; a portion of the SE¼ of Section 36, T.14N., R.66W.; and a portion of the NE¼ of Section 1,
T.13N., R.66W.,  6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Campstool Road and Interstateth
80, west of Campstool Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5697)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cheyenne
Business Parkway, Ninth Filing, a replat of Lot 2, Block 4, Cheyenne Business Parkway, First Filing;
Lots 1-3, Block 1, Cheyenne Business Parkway, Fifth Filing; and a portion of the SW¼ of Section
36, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to Campstoolth
Road, west of Commerce Circle).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5698)
[CA] RESOLUTION - To support and adopt the recommendations of the Cheyenne Transportation
Safety Management Plan.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5699)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3)  application to th e State Loan and I nvestment Board for the Tra nsfer Station
Upgrade Phase II.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5700)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
O’Brien Subdivision, a replat of a portion of the S½ of Tract 49, Allison Tracts, Laramie County,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to E. College Drive, east of S. Greeley Highway) -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2016 budget of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting an amendment to the future Land Use map in PLANCHEYENNE,
the Master Plan for the C ity of Cheyenne and the Comprehensive Plan for portions of Laramie
County, amending the land use category from Community Business to Urban Residential for all of
Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 3, Block 1, Saddle Ridge Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known
as Saddle Ridge 7  Filing (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of US Highway 30 andth
Whitney Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee  (sponsor - Bryan Cook).
Preliminary Plat of Summ it Park, a rep lat of a portion of Tra ct 31, Dell Rang e Addition,
Second Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (annexation intended) (located at the southeast corner of
the intersection of Ridge Road and Summit Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Hunter Management Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department,
and the Wyoming Game and Fish Commission for the Lone Tree Hunter Management Area on the
Belvoir Ranch.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6393)
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, Victim Witness Program, and
the State of Wyoming, Division of Victim Services, for services to victims of crime.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6394)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Ashley McInelly, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6395)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Brenda Johnson, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6396)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Leslie Burch, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services grant).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6397)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, and Laramie County, Wyoming, for a Laramie
County Combined Communications Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6398)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Wyoming Department of
Transportation for Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program Fiscal Year 2016 (Wyoming Department
of Transportation grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 4989 betwe en the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and Rocky Mountain Pipeline System, LLC, Denver, Colorado, for limited
use of the public right-of-way for installation of two additional petroleum pipelines -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-1-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction
Division, and Top Job, LLC, Mendon, Utah, for  Fiscal Year 2016 Slurry Seal Project (2011 - 2014
1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $179,400.00). (#6399)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-2-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Kolbe Striping, Inc., Castle Rock, Colorado, for 2015 City of Cheyenne Pavement
Markings Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $119,303.00). (#6400)
Consideration of Bid #M-20-15 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corporation  & Subsidiary, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the West Lincolnway
Streetscape, Phase 2 Landscape & Irrigation Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  James Perrott
Macneil commented in opposition to all changes from agricultural use.  Mr. Brown moved to accept
the bid, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone to August 24, 2015, seconded by Mr.
Roybal.  It was advised that postponement would allow for further discussion with the bidder, and
that the sole bid rec eived was over the e ngineer’s estimate.  Clarification was provided on the
location of the project area.  Motion to postpone ca rried.  V oting “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-2-16, for furnishing one new 2015 Yard Hook Lift Truck for the
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
bid submitted by Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $110,562.00).  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-3-26 for the purchase of a surplus Caterpillar motorgrader (Public
Works Department) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office, for East Coast Pizza -
Frontier, LLC d/b/a East Coast Pizza, 1400 Dell Range Boulevard, Space 80, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
 
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application for Cheyenne Club, Inc., 1617
Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License formerly held by JKLL, Inc. d/b/a Drunken Skunk,
1617 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Microbrewery application for  Danielmar k’s B rewing, I nc. d/b/a Da nielmark’s B rewing
Company, Inc., 209 E. 18  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Jeffrey Boldt, The Kuker Group law firm,th
attorney for applicant, explained the permit will be utilized in conjunction with a family friendly
business atmosphere the applicant intends to provide in an historic structure that is being renovated.
He reviewed concerns expressed at the previous City Council and Finance Committee meetings by
representatives of J and J Hanger, LLC, and Northcutt Real Estate Company, LLC, adjacent property
owners, regarding hours of operation, potential outdoor noise (i.e. music) that may be generated, and
trees that border  adjac ent prope rty.  Mr. B oldt advised that, pursuant to discuss ions betwee n
Danielmark’s and the parties expressing concerns, the two parties have agreed to withdraw their
previous objections.  Mr. Boldt submitted documents (on file with Office of City Clerk) supporting
the withdraw al o f concerns by  the two adjac ent prope rty owner s.  Speaking  in favor of  the
application and in support of the proposed business environment generally were:  Kyle Doyle; Ben
Rose; Tommy Martin; Hailey Trembath, Cheyenne Professionals Network; Barbara Kloth, and
Brandon Swain, real e state agent, Remax Capitol Prope rties.  Mr. Brown moved t o ap prove,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Appointments of Charlotte Powers a nd Dav e Teubner to the Chey enne D owntown
Development Authority Board (DDA).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
  
[CA] Annual Report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements made at the Airport
Golf Course as required by Lease Agreement.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (acknowledged
receipt of the report).
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Mark Moran, as City of Cheyenne, Senior
Municipal Court Judge, and Kimberly Skoutary as City of Cheyenne, Municipal Court Judge, to be
confirmed August 24, 2015.
Under other business:
Frank Cole commented on a park project he had recently completed in conjunction with a
detention pond area off Mountain Road, submitting photos (on file with Office of City Clerk) of the
park as completed.
Ms. Williams read a letter from a resident that she had received, as well as a recent letter to
the editor published in the newspaper, regarding concerns with hit and run incidents within the City.
Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised notification of a calcutta event had been received after
the meeting agenda deadline and, due to the timing of the event and state statute provisions, read the
following announcement for the record:   Announcement that a calcutta, benefitting the Multiple
Sclerosis Association, will be held Thursday, August 13, 2015 beginning at 6:00 p.m. at Uncle
Charlie’s Lounge, 6001 Yellowstone Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the annual
Uncle Charlie’s “DONE” golf scramble (15% of proceeds to the Multiple Sclerosis Association).
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 8:51 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 August 21, 2015