MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-08-24 | CLIP_ID: 496 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 496

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
August 24, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor,  Mr. Valdez
and Ms. Williams. Absent: Mr. Cook.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White,
City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Mayor Kaysen read a Proclamation recognizing Stephanie B arnes as City of Cheyenne’s
Special Olympian, noting she had recently won medals for cycling in local, state and national Special
Olympic games, and proc laimed Aug ust 24, 2015 as Stephanie B arnes Day .  May or Ka ysen
presented Ms. Barnes with the official Proclamation.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 10, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Valdez moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Inquiry was made concerning vouchers payable to Atco International (graffiti removal supplies) and
Lyle Signs, Inc. (various traffic signs for placement throughout the City).  Mayor Kaysen provided
information in r esponse t o i nquiry o n t he t wo v ouchers.  M otion c arried.  V oting “ yes” - - a ll
members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Pur suant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1.b. of the Che yenne U nified
Development Code (UDC), amending Section 2.2.4.b, Conditional Use Approval, Applicability.
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Comment was made re garding concern with an a pplicant acquiring
conditional use appr oval through the B oard of Adjustment prior to any  requirements involving
governing body approval.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of t he governing body
present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#4085)
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 7 of Ordinance No. 4020 to provide for the removal of
the sunset clause affiliated with Subsection 2.3.4.b.3, Administrative Adjustment, of the Cheyenne
Unified Development Code (UDC).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present. (#4086)
ORDINANCE  - Amending Section 1.4.3, Defined Terms, repealing and re-enacting Chapter
3.2, Drainage Impact Studies, and re pealing Appendix H of the Chey enne Unified Development
Code (UDC).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Mr. Shanor moved to amend by substitute dated August 18, 2015, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  It was
noted the propose d substitute amends wording in Chapter 3.2.6.(b) , Public Maintenance , of the
revised Drainage Impact Studies portion of the ordinance.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” --
all m embers of  the  g overning bo dy pr esent.  Up on inq uiry, N athan B eauheim, Assistant C ity
Engineer, provided information on signage requirements in parking lots and detention ponds and
facilities where flooding may occur; detention areas being engineered for a 100 year flood scenario;
purpose of including additional “freeboard” flood level requirements in the ordinance to compensate
for unknown f actors that could contribute to flood he ights greater than a nticipated, and issues
involving drainage designs.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by deleting Section 3.2.3.b.3. (j) located on
Page 10 of the ordinance, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Kelly Hafner, Benchmark Engineers, advised
their firm does a lot of drainage designs and the topic of “freeboarding” is subject to a lot of debate.
He commented in support of the amendment which would remove the “freeboard” requirement,
noting it will put the burden back on drainage design engineers.  Motion to amend carried. Voting
“yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present with the exception of Mr. Br own and Mr.
Johnson voting “ no”.  Upon inquiry  reg arding maintenanc e of de tention ponds/facilities, Mr.
Beauheim advise d responsibility  to mainta in the dete ntion area s varies w ith ownership of the
property.  He advised with commercial properties it is the landowner’s responsibility and other areas,
such as residential, it may be the City’s responsibility or a home owner’s association, or a mixture
of both.  Mr. Beauheim and Mayor Kaysen provided further information on maintenance monitoring
of detention areas by various City departments.  Main motion as twice amende d carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4087)
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 2.08.010, Appointment and Terms - Removal - Vacancy,
of Chapter 2.08, City Officers and Employees Generally, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel,
of the Code of  the City  of Chey enne to pr ovide for the  appoin tment of the Dire ctor of the
Development Department.  M r. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Motion carried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Mr. Brown voting “no”. 
ORDINANCE - Submitting to the qualified electors, at a Special Referendum Election to be
conducted on Tuesday, November 10, 2015, the following question: “Shall Charter Ordinance No.
1 establishing the position of City Administrator and exempting the City of Cheyenne, as a First
Class City, from certain sections of the Wyoming Statutes, take effect?”.  Mr. Shanor moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - - all
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Brown voting “no”.  
ORDINANCE - Submitting to the qualified property owners of re al property within the
boundaries of the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District of Cheyenne, Wyoming,
excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, at a Special Election on Tuesday,
October 20, 2015, the following question: “Shall a special assessment of twenty (20) mills be levied
upon the assesse d value of  rea l property  within t he boundaries of the Chey enne D owntown
Development Authority District, excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes,
for a period of four (4) years pursuant to the provisions of Wyo. Stat. §15-9-217(b) for the purposes
of (1)  administrative costs; (2) landsc aping or maintena nce of  public areas; (3) pla nning or
management of development or improvement activities; (4) promotion of public events; and (5)
activities in support of business recruitment and development?”.  Reporting for Finance Committee,
Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential-Established and
NB Neighborhood Business to NB Neighborhood Business for the west 80 feet of Lots 49 and 50
and all those parts of the west 80 feet of Lots 47 and 48 lying and being north of Randall Avenue,
Block 7, Amended Plat of Holdrege’s Addition, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known
as Holdrege’s Addition, Fourth Filing (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Randall
and Snyder Avenues).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom N B Ne ighborhood B usiness t o CB  Com munity
Business for Lot 1, Block 1, Lowe Subdivision and Lots 1 & 2, Block 1, Good Addition, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Ridge
Road).  Mr. Shanor  moved to approve  on second r eading, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Moti on
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE- Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial to LI Light Industrial for
a portion of Tract 1, H and B Tracts, Cheyenne Wyoming, to be known as Heiduck Addition (located
at the southwest corner of the intersection of Interstate 80 and Southwest Drive).  Mr. Shanor  moved
to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes”-- all
members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE- Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MR-2 Medium Density
Residential-Developing for a replat of all of Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 3, Block 1, Saddle Ridge,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Saddle Ridge, 7  Filing (located at the southeast corner of theth
intersection of US Highway 30 and Whitney Road).  John Edwards, Edwards Development, speaking
on behalf of the Saddle Ridge Subdivision Project, submitted maps (on file with City Clerk’s office)
depicting elements involving the development area related to the re-zoning request and affiliated
items o n th e me eting a genda, a nd a dvised th e re -zoning pr oposal is  to c hange a  pr eviously
designated commercial site to a residential use.  Mr. Edwards stated the commercial area is being
moved to a location across from Whitney Road, and discussed density reduction; open space plans;
property sales and va lues, and a nticipated time fra me in which this project pha se would be
completed.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE- Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of the E½ of Section
25, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as Saddle Ridge, 8  Filingth th
Annexation (located north of and adjacent to E. Pershing Boulevard, west of Christensen Road).
John Edwards, Edwards Development, speaking on behalf of Saddle Ridge Subdivision Project,
reviewed proposed plans for property development (related to maps submitted by Mr. Edwards with
the previous agenda item); expl ained that plans inc lude preservation and util ization of natural
elements involving topography and historic drainage patterns, and commented on open space and
Greenway amenities, and communications with  neighborhood residents.  M r. Shanor moved to
approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend to include Staff
Conditions #1 and 2, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Staff Conditions were noted as follows:  #1. That
all technical revisions stated by  staff in the of ficial comments are a ddressed (City Surveyor and
Development Department); #2. That East Pershing Blvd. from the current City limits to the farthest
point of this annexation be included as part of this annexation.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present. 
ORDINANCE- Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential to
MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing for a  portion of the E½ of Sec tion 25, T.14N.,
R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Saddle Ridge, 8  Filing (located north ofth th
and adjacent to E. Pershing Boulevard, west of Christensen Road).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve
on second reading with Staff Condition #1, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE- Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of Lot 6, all of Lots
7 & 8, and the west 12 feet of Lot 9, Block 2, plus that adjacent 8 feet of vacated alley, Coulson
Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Rawlins Street, we st of
McCann Avenue).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE- Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County MR Medium Density Residential to MR-2
Medium Density Residential-Developing for a portion of Lot 6, all of Lots 7 & 8, and the west 12
feet of L ot 9, Block 2, plus that adjace nt 8 fee t of vac ated alley, Coulson Additi on, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Rawlins Street, west of McCann Avenue).  Mr. Shanor
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”  --
all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - De-annexing from the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, theST
South ½ of Tract 105 and 106, Sunnyside Addition, Fourth Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming,
previously known as the 4204 Charles Annexation (located at the northeast corner of the intersection
of Monroe Avenue and Charles Street) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor  – Mr.
Cook).                                            
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Creating Section 2.84.100, City of Cheyenne Human RightsST
Advisory Council, of Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous B oards a nd Commi ssions, of Title 2,
Administration and Personnel, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsors – Mr. Brown, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor, Mr.
Valdez, Mayor Kaysen).
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
O’Brien Subdivision, a replat of a portion of the S½ of Tract 49, Allison Tracts, Laramie County,
Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to E. Coll ege Drive, east of S. Greeley Highway).  Mr.
Shanor moved to adopt, including the current statement on the Final Plat map as presented and Staff
Condition #1, seconde d by  Ms. Wi lliams.  Mr. Shanor moved to ame nd the wording  on the
Dedication statement on the Fina l Plat map by  adding the following  language at the e nd of the
sentence in the 3  para graph, se conded by Dr. Rinne:  “... or  complies  with the rules of  lawrd
announced by the Wyoming Supreme Court in Carnahan v. Lewis, 273 P.3d 1065 (Wyo. 2012)”.
Casey Palma, Steil Surveying Services, agent for the owner, commented on the proposed amendment
wording, noting plat (i.e. County plats within 1 mile of City boundary) wording has been an ongoing
issue involving the City and County.  Mr. Palma stated the proposed amendment wording doesn’t
allow for any future legal actions that may affect the Carnahan v. Lewis decision, and proposed the
following wording instead be considered for placement on the plat map: “ ... and complies with
established state law, including but not limited to, the rules of law  announced by the Wyoming
Supreme Court in C arnahan v. Lewis, 273 P.3d 1065 (W yo. 2012) as applicable.”  Mr . Palma
indicated a response from the County regarding his proposed wording had not yet been received and,
upon inquiry, advised a postponement of the item would not be detrimental.  Mr. Brown moved to
postpone the item to Sept ember 14, 2015, seconde d by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to postpone car ried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2016 budget of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5701)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting an amendment to the future Land Use map in PLANCHEYENNE,
the Master Plan for the City of Cheyenne and the Comprehensive Plan for portions of Laramie
County, amending the land use category from Community Business to Urban Residential for all of
Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 3, Block 1, Saddle Ridge Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known
as Saddle Ridge 7  Filing (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of US Highway 30 andth
Whitney Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5702)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Amending Resolution No. 5152 outlining election procedures and
guidelines for a Chey enne Downtown Development Authority District Special Elec tion for the
purpose of submitting to qualified district voters a ballot question providing for a special property
assessment as authorized by Wyo. Stat  §15-9-217(b)  -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor –
Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  City  Clerk to sign a F inal Plat for
Holdrege’s Addition, Fourth Filing, a replat of the west 80 feet of Lots 49 and 50 and all those parts
of the west 80 feet of Lots 47 and 48 lying and being north of Randall Avenue, Block 7, Amended
Plat of Holdrege’s Addition, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the
northeast corner of the intersection of Randall and Snyder Avenues) -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor – Mr. Cook). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Heiduck
Addition, a replat of a portion of Tract 1, H and B Tracts, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Interstate 80 and Southwest Drive) -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor – Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle
Ridge, 7  Filing, a replat of all of Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 3, Block 1, Saddle Ridge, Cheyenne,th
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of US Highway 30 and Whitney Road)
-- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor – Mr. Cook).
                            
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an a pplication to the Wy oming Water
Development Commission for Grant Funding for Phase III of the Southern Water Transmission Main
Project in the amount of $10,720,000 and authorizing the Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of
the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and all related documents -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor – Mr. Brown).
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving Fund for Phase III
of the Southern Water Transmission Main Project in the amount of $5,280,000 and authorizing the
Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and
all related documents -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor – Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment B oard, amending D rinking Wat er S tate Re volving L oan # 151 f rom $5 89,800 to
$1,089,800 for the RL Sherard Powdered Activated Carbon Feed System Project and authorizing the
Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and
all related loan documents -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor – Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A dopting the Pershing Boulevard Complete Streets Plan -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor – Mr. Cook).
Preliminary Plat of Summ it Park, a re plat of a por tion of Tract 31, Dell Rang e Addition,
Second Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (annexation intended) (located at the southeast corner of
the intersection of Ridge Road and Summit Drive).  Steve Grisby spoke in opposition to the 15 four-
plexes proposed to be built on the site, expressing concerns with traffic safety and volume, and stated
his preference to keep the site as a rural area for now.  Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for the applicant,
advised a traffic analysis was conducted and the anticipated volume does not meet the level required
for a traffic signal at this time.  Dan I nman, speaking on be half of his niec e, who r esides in the
vicinity, spoke in support of the intended annexation of the property.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend
the Planning Commission’s recommendation and acknowledge receipt of the Preliminary Plat with
Staff Condition #1, seconded by  Ms. Williams.  Comments followed regarding limited areas for
growth of the City; possibility of changing the name of Summit Drive to Storey Blvd., and number
of units to be built upon the property . Upon inquiry , M r. Emmons reviewed the de nsity level
involving the number of planned multi-family units, advising the number  proposed is below the
minimum, and stated additional garage storage space will be ava ilable.  Motion carr ied.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Wyoming Department of
Transportation for Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program Fiscal Year 2016 (Wyoming Department
of Transportation grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6402)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, a nd Laramie
County, Wyoming, for juvenile probation services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contra ct No. 4989 between the City of C heyenne,
Engineering Department, and Rocky Mountain Pipeline System, LLC, Denver, Colorado, for limited
use of the public right-of-way for installation of two additional petroleum pipelines.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City). (#4989)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6353 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects for the Transfer Station Update
Phase 2 and 3 Design (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax, State Loan & Investment Board Grant)
-- referred to Finance Committee. 
Consideration of Bid #M-20-15 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corporation  & Subsidiary, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the West Lincolnway
Streetscape, Phase 2 Landscape & Irrigation Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) (Postponed from
August 10, 2015).  J ohn Hall , City Engineer, ref erenced a  memo previously  provided to the
governing body on bid history involving the project, and reviewed the project area.  He advised there
was o ne bid  re ceived in  c onjunction w ith the  re cent b id, w hich e xceeded th e e ngineer’s c ost
estimate; that WYDOT funding is involved and includes a time frame in which to utilize the funds,
and reviewed options available to the governing body, which is to reject the bid or reduce the scope
of the project to meet the available funding level. Mr. Hall discussed elements involving reducing
the scope of the project, noting  submitt ed bid pricing  would not be neg otiated, and pr ovided
information on discussions with the bidder re lative to a re duction in the scope of  services.  Mr.
Brown moved to reject the bid, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Hall noted the project has
been bid twice with the same bidder submitting the only bid both times, and that areas involving
negotiation in volve re duced q uantities a nd sc ope of  wo rk.  M otion fa iled.  Vo ting “ no” --  a ll
members of the governing body present.  Due to a revision in the scope of services for the project,
Mr. Brown moved to accept the bid from Reiman Corporation & Subsidiary in an amount not to
exceed $484,900.55, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present. (#6403)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-3-26 (City Clerk note: Due to a clerical error, the correct bid # is
E-3-16) for the purchase of a surplus Caterpillar motorgrader (Public Works Department).  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accept the bid from Farthing Ranch Company, Cheyenne, in the
amount of $30,100.00 -- revenue to the City).
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-6-16 for furnishing two ne w solid waste tra nsfer trailers for the
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-4-16 for annual contracts for snow removal and other services (2015
- 2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-8-16 for furnishing two new ten yard tandem dump trucks with
spreader and snow plow for the Street and Alley Division (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Transfer of ownership and transfer of location for a retail liquor license application for Robert
W. Moberly, 1600 East Pershing Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License formerly held by W. E.
Dinneen, Inc., 1610 Pioneer Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
 
Appointments of Mark Moran, as City  of Chey enne Senior Municipal Court J udge, and
Kimberly Skoutary as City  of Chey enne Municipal Court J udge.  Mr. Luna moved to appr ove,
seconded by Mr. Valde z.  Mot ion carried.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).  Mayor Kaysen
noted th e a ppointees w ould b e sw orn in  on  Se ptember 1 , 2 015 a t 8: 30 a .m. in C ity Cou ncil
Chambers.
Announcement was ma de of  the  Ap pointment o f M artha Mu llikin to t he Hi storic
Preservation Board, and Tony O’Brien to the Visit Cheyenne Board, to be confirmed September 14,
2015.
Announcement was made that due to the Labor Day Holiday on Monday, September 7, 2015,
regularly schedule d City  Council Comm ittee Mee tings will inst ead be held i n the Municipal
Building, Room 122, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee
will meet Tuesday , September 8, 2015 a t 11:00 a.m. and Pu blic Services Committee will meet
Wednesday, September 9, 2015 at Noon. 
Under other business:
Gabriel Pina expressed concern with an accident that occurred earlier in the month involving
a vehicle and a  youth b icyclist on Hill crest Dr. and r equested speed limit signs be posted a nd
consideration be given to reduce the speed limit in the area to 25 m.p.h. 
Dr. Rinne complimented Development office staff on recent work involving development
applications and the Unified Development Code (UDC).
There bein g no further business to come  befor e the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:32 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 September 5, 2015