MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-09-14 | CLIP_ID: 498 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 498

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
September 14, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - M r. Brown, Mr. Cook,  Mr . Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor and Ms.
Williams. Absent:  Mr. Johnson.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White, City
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Mayor Kaysen called for a moment of silence in remembrance of Councilman Jimmy R.
Valdez, who passed away September 9, 2015.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor recused himself from participation in voting due to any
appearance of influence on Consent Agenda items involving the State Loan and Investment Board,
and vacated Council Chambers.  Upon request by Mr. Cook, and pursuant to support received by Dr.
Rinne and Mr. Roybal, agenda item #25 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved
to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr.
Shanor returned to Council Chambers.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 24, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers payable to Ameri-
Tech HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. L una moved to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Inquiry was made concerning vouchers payable to
2 Doors Down (lunches for Tour de Prairie participants; part of registration fee); Action Ads, Inc.
(bracelets for police officers to distribute to youth at special events), and DHM Design, (preliminary
designs for the Cahill Park universally accessible playground (grant money)).  Mayor Kaysen, Police
Chief Brian Kozak and Parks and Recreation Director Rick Parish provided information in response
to the inquiry.  M otion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in
Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - Amending Section 2.08.010, Appointment and Terms - Removal - Vacancy,
of Chapter 2.08, City Officers and Employees Generally, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel,
of the Code of  the Ci ty of Chey enne to pr ovide for the  appointment of the Dire ctor of the
Development Department.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve
on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Comments followed re garding the re cent
“splitting” of the Planning and Development Department.  Mo tion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Brown voting “no”. (#4088)
ORDINANCE - Submitting to the qualified electors, at a Special Referendum Election to be
conducted on Tuesday, November 10, 2015, the following question: “Shall Charter Ordinance No.
1 establishing the position of City Administrator and exempting the City of Cheyenne, as a First
Class City, from ce rtain sections of the Wy oming Statutes, take  effect?”.  C omment was made
regarding the process utilized in initiating the special election.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third
and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Brown voting “no”. (#4089) 
ORDINANCE - Submitting to the qualified pr operty owners of re al property within the
boundaries of the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District of Cheyenne, Wyoming,
excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, at a Special Election on Tuesday,
October 20, 2015, the following question: “Shall a special assessment of twenty (20) mills be levied
upon the assessed value of real property within the boundaries of the Cheyenne Downtown
Development Authority District, excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes,
for a period of four (4) years pursuant to the provisions of Wyo. Stat. §15-9-217(b) for the purposes
of (1) administrative costs; (2) landscaping or maintenance of public areas; (3) planning or
management of development or improvement activities; (4) promotion of public eve nts; and (5)
activities in support of business recruitment and development?”.  Reporting for Finance Committee,
Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4090)
 
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential-Established and
NB Neighborhood Business to NB Neighborhood Business for the west 80 feet of Lots 49 and 50
and all those parts of the west 80 feet of Lots 47 and 48 lying and being north of Randall Avenue,
Block 7, Amended Plat of Holdrege’s Addition, Third and final Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be
known as Holdrege’s Addition, Fourth Filing (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of
Randall and Snyder Avenues).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by
Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4091)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom N B Ne ighborhood B usiness t o CB  Com munity
Business for Lot 1, Block 1, Lowe Subdivision and Lots 1 & 2, Block 1, Good Addition, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Ridge
Road).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4092)
ORDINANCE- Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial to LI Light Industrial for
a portion of Tract 1, H and B Tracts, Cheyenne Wyoming, to be known as Heiduck Addition (located
at the southwest corner of the intersection of Interstate 80 and Southwest Drive).  Mr. Cook moved
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”--
all members of the governing body present. (#4093)
ORDINANCE- Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MR-2 Medium Density
Residential-Developing for a replat of all of Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 3, Block 1, Saddle Ridge,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Saddle Ridge, 7  Filing (located at the southeast corner of theth
intersection of US Highway 30 and Whitney Road).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final
reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present. (#4094)
ORDINANCE- Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of the E½ of Section
25, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as Saddle Ridge, 8  Filingth th
Annexation (located north of and adjacent to E. Pershing Boulevard, west of Christensen Road).  Mr.
Cook moved to approve on third a nd final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4095)
ORDINANCE- Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential to
MR-2 Medium Density  Residential-Developing for a  portion of the E½ of Section 25, T.14N.,
R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Saddle Ridge, 8  Filing (located north ofth th
and adjacent to E. Pershing Boulevard, west of Christensen Road).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present. (#4096)
ORDINANCE- Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of Lot 6, all of Lots
7 & 8, and the west 12 feet of Lot 9, Block 2, plus that adjacent 8 feet of vacated alley, Coulson
Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to Rawlins S treet, west of
McCann Av enue).  Mr . Co ok mov ed to  a pprove on  thi rd a nd fi nal reading, s econded b y Ms.
Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4097)
ORDINANCE- Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from County MR Medium Density Residential to MR-2
Medium Density Residential-Developing for a portion of Lot 6, all of Lots 7 & 8, and the west 12
feet of Lot 9, Block 2, plus that adjacent 8 feet of vacated alley, Coulson Addition, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Rawlins Street, west of McCann Avenue).  Mr. Cook
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes”  -- all members of the governing body present. (#4098)
ORDINANCE- De-annexing from the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the South ½ of Tract 105
and 106, Sunnyside Addition, Fourth Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming, previously known as the
4204 Charles Annexation (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Monroe Avenue and
Charles Street).  Cooper Overstreet, The Kuker Group, representing the petitioners, advised he was
present to respond to any questions.  Concern was expressed that approval of the ordinance may set
a precedent.  Mr. Overstreet provided a brief background involving the property owner’s reason for
annexation that has resulted in their request to de-annex, noting their request to annex was based
upon the belief that a City sewer main was in close proximity to the property, allowing for hook-up
by the property owner.  Mr. Overstreet stated it was subsequently learned, after the property had been
annexed, that th e se wer m ain l ocation in formation w as in correct a nd the re is n o h ook-up sit e
available in reasonable proximity to the property.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. 
ORDINANCE - Cre ating Section 2.84.100, City  of Chey enne H uman Rights Advisory
Council, of Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, of Title 2, Administration and
Personnel, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mayor Kaysen advised the sponsors of
the ordinance have requested the ordinance be withdrawn from the agenda.  Following inquiry to
members of  the g overning body  prese nt, and with no objection being  raised, Ma yor Ka ysen
announced the item was being withdrawn from the agenda.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing to
MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for a replat of a portion of Tract 5, Storey Acres, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, to be known as RKRR Addition (located west of and adjacent to Townsend Place, south
of Arbor Lane) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook). 
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
O’Brien Subdivision, a replat of a portion of the S½ of Tract 49, Allison Tracts, Laramie County,
Wyoming ( located n orth o f a nd a djacent t o E . C ollege D rive, e ast o f S . G reeley H ighway)
(Postponed from August 24, 2015).  Mr. Cook moved to adopt with revised plat map dated Sept. 8,
2015 and by striking Note #4 from the Sept. 8, 2015 plat map, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5703) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Am ending Resolution No. 5152 outli ning e lection proc edures and
guidelines for a Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Special Election for the
purpose of submitting to qualified district voters a ballot question providing for a special property
assessment as authorized by Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-217(b).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) ca rried.
(#5704)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for
Holdrege’s Addition, Fourth Filing, a replat of the west 80 feet of Lots 49 and 50 and all those parts
of the west 80 feet of Lots 47 and 48 lying and being north of Randall Avenue, Block 7, Amended
Plat of Holdrege’s Addition, Third and final Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located
at the northeast corner of the intersection of Randall and Snyder Avenues).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5705)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Heiduck
Addition, a replat of a portion of Tract 1, H and B Tracts, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Interstate 80 and Southwest Drive).  Mr. Cook
moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute map with the
addition of Note #8 as presented at the Public Services Co mmittee meeting, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Josh Tetzlaff, Development Office, explained the purpose of adding Note #8 on the plat
map is to address a drainage easement concern raised by a neighboring landowner.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present.  Main motion as amended
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5706)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle
Ridge, 7  Filing, a replat of all of Lot 2 and a portion of Lot 3, Block 1, Saddle Ridge, Cheyenne,th
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of US Highway 30 and Whitney Road).
Rick Parish, Parks and Rec reation Director, sta ted staff and the de veloper have worked on an
affiliated Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) involving open spa ce areas, and re quested an
amendment be considered to include the MOU, referenced as staff condition #4.  Mr. Cook moved
to adopt with staff conditions #1, 2 and 3, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Cook moved to amend
to include staff condition #4 (the MOU), seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City
Attorney, advised that at times an affiliated MOU with a final plat action is part of the plat approval
process and some times it is presented a s a sepa rate agenda item.  Car ol Intlekofer, City Clerk,
advised that, historically, not all staff recommendations or conditions are placed upon the plat map
itself and noted that a  typical condition involving an  affiliated MOU is that the MOU must be
entered into between the parties prior to signatures being placed on the final plat map.  Mr. Cook,
as maker of the motion to amend, and Ms. Williams, as the second to the motion, revised their
motion to amend to include staff condition #4 requiring an affiliated MOU be entered into between
the parties prior to signa tures being placed on the final plat map.  Motion to amend ( as revised)
carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5707 RES/#6410 CON)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the subm ittal of an applica tion to the W yoming Water
Development Commission for Grant Funding for Phase III of the Southern Water Transmission Main
Project in the amount of $10,720,000 and authorizing the Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of
the Board of Public Utili ties to ex ecute the applica tion and all rela ted documents.  Moti on (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5708)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving Fund for Phase III
of the Southern Water Transmission Main Project in the amount of $5,280,000 and authorizing the
Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and
all related documents.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5709)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan and
Investment B oard, a mending Dr inking Water State Re volving L oan # 151 f rom $5 89,800 to
$1,089,800 for the RL Sherard Powdered Activated Carbon Feed System Project and authorizing the
Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and
all related loan documents.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5710)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting the Pershing  Boulevard Complete Stree ts Plan.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5711)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fisc al Year 2016 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance (sponsor - Mr.
Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle
Ridge, 8  Filing, a portion of the E½ of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyomingth th
(located north of and adjacent to E. Pershing Boulevard, west of Christensen Road) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Thomas
Hills, a replat of Lots 1-5 and Lots 10-15, Block 3, Granite Hills Subdivision and Lots 33-37, Block
8, Thomas Heights, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north and east of and adjacent to Sunrise Hills
Drive and Boulder Court) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing a Special Use Permit for a Creative Sign Program for Lot 1,
Block 3 , Okie Addition, First Filing (located at the northeast corner of E. Pershing Boulevard and
Windmill Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
[CA] Agreement b etween th e City  of  Che yenne, O ffice of  Yo uth Al ternatives, a nd L aramie
County, Wyoming, for juvenile probation services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6408)
[CA] Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie
County for overage revenues from the One Percent Sales Tax for Calendar Years 2011 through 2014.
-- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County, City of Cheyenne, and the Board
of Public Utilities, for a cooperative Geographic Information System Strategic Planning Project --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6353 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects for the Transfer Station Update
Phase 2 and 3 Design ( 1% Specific Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x, State L oan & Investment Board
Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6353)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-6-16 for furnishing two new solid waste tra nsfer trailers for the
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
the bid from Wyoming Machinery, Casper, Wyoming, in an amount not to exceed $149,948.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-4-16 for annual contracts for snow removal and other services (2015
- 2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid from JTL Group, Inc.
d/b/a Knife River). (#6409)
Consideration of Bid #E-8-16 for furnishing two new ten yard tandem dump trucks with
spreader a nd snow plow for the  Street and A lley Division (2011-20 14 1% Sales Tax ). Vicki
Nemecek, Public Works Director, reviewed bid history involving the equipment; stated that bids
were reviewed by Dennis Bell, Fleet Maintenance, and advised all bids received substantially comply
with bid specifications.  She noted the re commendation is to approve  the lowest bidder, F loyd’s
Truck Ce nter, in an a mount not to ex ceed $393,038.00 (including  trade -ins); indicated the
recommendation is in compliance with state statute and the City’s purchasing policy, and provided
past examples of bids involving bid specification compliance.  James Balzer, Peterbilt of Wyoming,
stated their bid was the only one that had met 100% compliance with bid specifications; advised he
had a ttended th e pr e-bid m eeting a nd e xpressed concerns w ith a djustments ma de to c ertain
specifications at t he pre -bid meeting  rela tive to “flexible” options a competitive bidder ha d
submitted with their bid.  Dave King, Ameri-Tech Equipment Company, whose company partnered
with Peterbilt on its bid, concurred with Mr. Balzer’s comments and expressed that their bid met the
specifications as stated.  Jeff Brown, Floyd’s Truck Center, advised that Mr. Bell had accepted their
bid; stated that some exceptions to the specifications were items he had brought up in the pre-bid
meeting, and re viewed several specific items co ntained in their bid.  Mr. B alzer commented on
warranties and support, and expressed his opinion that certain specification exceptions (variations)
do matter with regard to differences in some aspects of the vehicles and equipment.  Upon inquiry,
Ms. Ne mecek c onfirmed th e ite ms h ad b een r e-bid due  to n o p rior bid s b eing su bstantially
compliant, and Sara Vasquez, Purchasing Manager, provided information on general purchasing
policy provisions and wording of bid documents.  Mr. Brown advised there was no recommendation
on the item from F inance Commi ttee.  Mr. B rown mov ed to accept the bid fr om Peterbilt of
Wyoming with the Ameri-Tech body in the amount of $414,970.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal.
Discussion incl uded g eneral bid document wor ding; spe cification ex ceptions, var iations and
flexibility, and evaluating the City’s bid process.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present.
[CA] Consideration of B id #E-10-16 for  furnishing ice c ontrol product for  the Public Works
Department (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-11-16 for furnishing front end load containers for the Sanitation
Division (Solid Waste Management) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of Martha Mullikin to the Historic Preservation Board, and Tony O’Brien to
the Visit Cheyenne Board.  Mr. Roybal moved to appr ove, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Moti on
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointment of Barbara Schulkowski - Fortish, to the
Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed September 28, 2015.
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Betty Jean Pearson and Patricia Riesland,
to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed September 28, 2015.
Announcement was made  of the Appointment of B randon Cammarata as Development
Director, to be confirmed September 28, 2015. 
There bein g no further business to come  befor e the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:19 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 September 25, 2015