MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-09-28 | CLIP_ID: 500 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 500

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
September 28, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent we re: M AYOR - R ichard L. Ka ysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Shanor.  Absent:
Mr. Cook and Ms. Williams.  (City Clerk note: Vacancy (1) on City Council, Ward I)  Also present:
Carol Intlekofer, City  Clerk, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 14, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve payment of vouchers
as pre sented, sec onded by  Mr. Roy bal.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “y es” - - all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE- De-annexing from the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the South ½ of Tracts
105 and 106, Sunnyside Addition, Fourth Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming, previously known as
the 4204 Charles Annexation (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Monroe Avenue
and Charles Street).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present. (#4099)
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing to
MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for a replat of a portion of Tract 5, Storey Acres, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, to be known as RKRR Addition (located west of and adjacent to Townsend Place, south
of Arbor Lane).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2016 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5712)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle
Ridge, 8  Filing, a portion of the E½ of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Wyomingth th
(located north of and adjacent to E. Pershing Boulevard, west of Christensen Road).  Mr. Shanor
moved to adopt with staff conditions #1, 2, 3 and 4, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Concern was expressed
regarding the number of new housing units (350) proposed with only one access point to the area.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of
Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#5713)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Thomas
Hills, a replat of Lots 1-5 and Lots 10-15, Block 3, Granite Hills Subdivision and Lots 33-37, Block
8, Thomas Heights, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located north and east of and adjacent to Sunrise Hills
Drive and Boulder Court).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5714)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing a Special Use Permit for a Creative Sign Program for Lot 1,
Block 3 , Okie Addition, First Filing (located at the northeast corner of E. Pershing Boulevard and
Windmill Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5715)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Declaring a vacancy to exist on the Cheyenne City Council in Ward 1 --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
                     
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan
and Investment Board for a loan from the Wy oming Clean Water State Revolving  Fund f or an
amount not to exceed $9.5 million for construction costs for  the Phase One  Southern Sewer
Interceptor Main Project and authorizing the Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of the Board of
Public Utilities to ex ecute the applica tion and all re lated loan doc uments -- re ferred to F inance
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
                     
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for RKRR
Addition, a replat of a portion of Tract 5, Storey Acres, Cheyenne, Wyoming, (located west of and
adjacent to Townsend Place, south of Arbor Lane) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor
-- Mr. Cook).
[CA] Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie
County for overage revenues from the One Percent Sales Tax for Calendar Years 2011 through 2014.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $183,500.00). (#6419) 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County, City of Cheyenne, and the Board
of Public Utilities, for a cooperative Geographic Information System Strategic Planning Project.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6420) 
[CA] Lease Agreement No. 8-09670 between the City of Cheyenne and the State of Wyoming,
Department of Administration and Information, Construction Management, for lease of 54 parking
spaces at the Cox Parking Structure -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of B id #E-10-16 for  furnishing ice c ontrol product for  the Public Works
Department (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid
from Desert Mountain Corporation, Riverton, WY, in the amount of $119.75 per ton).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-11-16 for furnishing front end load containers for the Sanitation
Division (Solid Waste Management).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid from
Wastequip Mfg. Company, Statesville, NC, in an amount not to exceed $100,100.00). 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-7-16 for furnishing one new 2015-2016 cab and chassis, 4x4, with
forestry chipper dump bed for the Urban Forestry Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
Re-Appointment of Barbara Schulkowski - Fortish to the Mayor’s Council for People with
Disabilities.  Mr. Johnson moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote
(Mayoral appointee).
Appointments of Betty Jean Pearson and Patricia Riesland to the Mayor’s Council for People
with Disabilities.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not
vote (Mayoral appointees).
Appointment o f B randon Ca mmarata a s D evelopment D irector.  M r. B rown mov ed to
approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Opinion was voic ed that an a ppointee providing an “outside
perspective” should have been considered.  Motion ca rried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Roybal and Mr. Shanor voting “no”, and Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee). 
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointment of Tricia S. Crilly to the Cheyenne Housing
Authority Board, to be confirmed October 12, 2015.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held October 12, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, for a transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Community Investments, Inc., 507 E. Lincolnway,
Cheyenne, Wy oming (L icense fo rmerly he ld b y Ka trina M.  Howell a nd Ad am L . H owell
d/b/a/Scooters Scoreboard Bar, 507 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held October 12, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue, to determine w hether compliance of an nexation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land of approximately 6.17
acres situated in Lots 1, 8, and 9, Block 5; Lots 1-4, Block 6; and Lots 1-18, Block 7, Sun Rise Hills
Addition Filing No. 1, and the adjacent portions of Thomas Road, Johnston Street, and a portion of
vacated Sunrise Hills Drive, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of Thomas
and Ridge Roads).
There being  no furth er business t o come be fore the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:14  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 8, 2015