MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-10-12 | CLIP_ID: 502 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 502

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
October 12, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent we re: M AYOR - R ichard L. Ka ysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor
and Ms. Williams.  (City Clerk note: Vacancy (1) on City Council, Ward I)  Also present: Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 28, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers
as pre sented, sec onded by  Mr. Roy bal.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “y es” - - all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for input and comments on a transfer of ownership
for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Community Investments,
Inc., 507 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Katrina M. Howell and
Adam L. Howell d/b/a Scooter’s Scoreboard Bar, 507 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  There
being no input or comments and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the
public hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to determine whether compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land of approximately 6.17
acres situated in Lots 1, 8, and 9, Block 5; Lots 1-4, Block 6; and Lots 1-18, Block 7, Sun Rise Hills
Addition Filing No. 1, and the adjacent portions of Thomas Road, Johnston Street, and a portion of
vacated Sunrise Hills Drive, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of Thomas
and Ridge Roads).  Mike Tylka, Development office, advised a zone change is a correlated item;
provided information on proposed development plans (residential lots) for the property, and stated
that requirements and compliance of annexation conditions contained in state statutes had been met.
Concern was expressed regarding lack of connecting street accessibility to existing residential areas
to the west and south of the property.  There being no further input or comments and purpose of the
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning
Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing to
MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for a replat of a portion of Tract 5, Storey Acres, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, to be known as RKRR Addition (located west of and adjacent to Townsend Place, south
of Arbor Lane).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and
final reading, seconded by Ms. W illiams.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body.
ORDINANCE - 1  Reading - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of landST
approximately 6.17 acres situated in Lots 1, 8, and 9, Bloc k 5; Lots 1-4, Block 6; and Lots 1-18,
Block 7, Sun Rise Hills Addition Filing No. 1, and the adjacent portions of Thomas Road, Johnston
Street, and a portion of vacated Sunrise Hills Drive, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the
southwest corner of Thomas and Ridge Roads) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  Reading - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, SectionST
5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom Co unty MR M edium D ensity
Residential to MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing for Lots 1, 8, and 9, Block 5; Lots 1-4,
Block 6; and Lots 1-18, Block 7, Sun Rise Hills Addition Filing No. 1, a nd a portion of va cated
Sunrise Hills Drive, L aramie County, Wyoming (located at the southwest corne r of Thomas and
Ridge Roads) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Declaring a va cancy to exi st on the Chey enne City Council in W ard 1.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5716)
                     
 RESOLUTION -  Authorizing the submittal of an application to the Wyoming State Loan
and Investment Board for a loan from the Wy oming Clean Water State Revolving  Fund f or an
amount n ot t o e xceed $ 9.5 mi llion f or c onstruction c osts f or th e Ph ase O ne So uthern Se wer
Interceptor Main Project and authorizing the Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of the Board of
Public Utilities to ex ecute the applica tion and all rela ted loan docume nts.  Mr. S hanor recused
himself from discussion and voting on the item to avoid the appearance of any potential or perceived
conflict of interest, and vacated Council Chambers.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute dated September
29, 2015, seconded  by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry , Br ad B rooks, Eng ineering/Water Resource
Manager, Board of Public Utilities, advised the substitute increases the loan request amount to $9.9
million based upon a recent updated cost estimate.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Main motion as amended carried.
Voting “yes” -- all m embers of the governing body present in Council C hambers.  Following
announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers. (#5717)
 
                     
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for RKRR
Addition, a replat of a portion of Tract 5, Storey Acres, Cheyenne, Wyoming, (located west of and
adjacent to Townsend Place, south of Arbor Lane).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5718)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budg et of the Cit y of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 a nd 16-4-113 - - referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of State Loan and Investment Board FY 2015-2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding
in the amount of $65,000 for Community Center upgrades for the Town of Burns -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a Memorandum Of
Understanding regarding reciprocal play at City and F.E. Warren Air Force Base Golf Courses; a
Memorandum Of Understanding to implement the ‘Keep Cheyenne Clean’ Program, and a Charter
establishing the F.E. Warren/Greater Cheyenne Community Partnership Leadership Committee --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] Lease Agreement No. 8-09670 between the City of Cheyenne and the State of Wyoming,
Department of Administration and Information, Construction Management, for lease of 54 parking
spaces at the Cox Parking Structure.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6422)
[CA] Contract between the City of Chey enne, Transit Division, and Wy oming Department of
Health, Aging Division, to provide supportive service s to persons 60 years or older ( Title III-B
Program Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract for single source technical se rvice support for the Cheyenne Fire an d R escue
Department from Physio-Control, Inc., Redmond, Washington, for factory-authorized inspection and
repair services of LIFEPAK devices (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contrac t No. 6307 betwee n the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and Ay res Associates for Lake Minnehaha Remediation Plan Phase 2
Project at Holliday Park (County Consensus Block Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Lease # API-169 Contract Amendment #3 t o City Contract No. 150 betwee n the City of
Cheyenne and the United States of America for additional lands for the development of a Veterans’
Administration Cemetery and a future City cemetery (to be located at the USDA Experimental
Station off Roundtop Road) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-7-16 for furnishing one new 2015-2016 cab and chassis, 4x4, with
forestry chipper dump bed for the Urban Forestry Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Spradle y Barr Motors, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in an
amount not to exceed $62,117.00, including trade-in).
Re-Appointment of Tricia S. Crilly to the Cheyenne Housing Authority Board.  Mr. Roybal
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee).
[CA] Consideration to purchase new playground equipment to include sur facing for Highlands
Park fr om G ameTime d/b /a Gr eat Western Pa rk &  Pla yground, Wel lsville, U tah ( Community
Facilities Fees, Land & Water Conservation Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement w as ma de of  the  Re -appointment of  Jea nnine Sta llings to  the  Tr ansit
Advisory Board, to be confirmed October 26, 2015.
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Angel Antunez, Elizabeth Babbitt, Maggie
Black, Madison Cook, Sora Bullis, Jacob Freeman, Julia Horst, Rachel Moseley, Kendra Redding,
Tanner Robertson, Sawyer Ruben, Sommer Straub-Waldron, Marvin Vinluan, Jason Weber, Josh
Weber and Katie Williams t o the 2015-16 Mayor’s Youth Council, to be confirmed October 26,
2015.  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, stated she had been advised that Elizabeth Babbitt has indicated
she will not be able to participate as a member of the Mayor’s Youth Council, therefore, her name
will not be forwarded to the next agenda for appointment consideration.
Under other business, R. Duane Wall read a prepared statement expressing his concerns,
issues and actions he has taken involving Harmony Hills Subdivision and his residential property
regarding past City  eng ineering s taff; investigations that have bee n conducte d; enforc ement
compliance with City specifications, and sidewalk and drainage concerns.  Ms. Williams noted for
the record that she had gone to Mr. Wall’s property and visited with him about his concerns.
There b eing no further busine ss to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:28 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 22, 2015