MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-10-26 | CLIP_ID: 504 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 504

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
October 26, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor
and Ms. Williams.  (City Clerk note: Vacancy (1) on City Council, Ward I)  Also present: Kristy
Anderson, Deputy City Clerk, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.) Mr. Shanor recused himself from participation in voting due to any
appearance of influence on a Consent Agenda item involving the State Loan and Investment Board,
and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 12, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 2  Reading - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of landnd
approximately 6.17 acres situated in Lots 1, 8, and 9, Block 5; Lots 1-4, Block 6; and Lots 1-18,
Block 7, Sun Rise Hills Addition Filing No. 1, and the adjacent portions of Thomas Road, Johnston
Street, and a  portion of vac ated Sunrise Hills Drive, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the
southwest corner of Thomas and Ridge Roads).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Concerns were raised regarding
access to the development on the west end.  Motion carr ied.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. 
ORDINANCE - 2  Reading - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Sectionnd
5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom Co unty MR M edium D ensity
Residential to MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing for Lots 1, 8, and 9, Block 5; Lots 1-4,
Block 6; and Lots 1-18, Block 7, Sun Rise Hills Addition Filing No. 1, and a portion of vacated
Sunrise Hills Drive, L aramie County, Wyoming (located at the southwest corne r of Thomas and
Ridge Roads).  M r. Coo k mo ved to  a pprove on  se cond r eading, s econded b y Ms.  Willi ams.
Concerns were raised regarding access to the development on the west end.   Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
ORDINANCE - 1  Reading - Amending the Major Street Plan Official Map by adding newlyst
platted and built roads, and by adding the extension of Christensen Road and revised right-of-way
between Commerce Circle and U.S. Highway 30 -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsors
-- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2015 budg et of the Cit y of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5719)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of State Loan and Investment Board FY 2015-2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding
in the amount of $65,000 for  Community Center upgrades for the Tow n of Burns.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5720)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a Memorandum Of
Understanding regarding reciprocal play at City and F.E. Warren Air Force Base Golf Courses; a
Memorandum Of Understanding to implement the ‘Keep Cheyenne Clean’ Program, and a Charter
establishing the F.E. Warren/Greater Cheyenne Community Partnership Leadership Committee.  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5721)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Purchasing Division of the City of Cheyenne to proceed
on a semiannual basis with the sale of surplus property pursuant to W.S. § 15-1-112(a) -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
  
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to lease, with an option to
purchase, sanitation, recycling, and landfill equipment -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Brown).
                  
[CA] RESOLUTION - To adopt the Certificate of Canvass and Declaration of Results of the
Canvassing Board for the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Special Election
held October 20, 2015 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
[CA] Contract between the City  of Chey enne, Transit Division, an d Wyoming Department of
Health, Aging Division, to provide supportive serv ices to persons 60 years or older ( Title III-B
Program Grant).    Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6426)
[CA] Contract f or s ingle s ource te chnical s ervice s upport f or th e Ch eyenne F ire a nd Re scue
Department from Physio-Control, Inc., Redmond, Washington, for factory-authorized inspection and
repair services of L IFEPAK devices (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax)  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried (in an amount not to exceed $42,387.00). (#6427)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Sarah C. Moyer for crime
victim assistance services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Real Estate Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Church of St. Mary for
real property described as the east 4 feet of Lot 5, the west 31 feet of Lot 6, and Lot 8, Block 227,
City o f C heyenne, C ounty o f Lar amie, S tate o f W yoming, for t he p urpose o f t he W est E dge
Development Project (Federal Emergency Management Agency, Community Development Block
Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Easement Agreement between Robert E. Gre en, Sr., Trustee  of the Rober t E. Gree n, Sr.
Living Trust, and the City of Cheyenne, for a Trail Easement to be used in conjunction with the open
space program of the Belvoir Ranch and Red Mountain (Big Hole) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 6307 betwee n the C ity of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and Ay res Associates for L ake Minnehaha Remediation Plan Phase 2
Project at Holliday Park (County Consensus Block Grant).    Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(in an amount not to exceed $79,973.00) (#6307)
[CA] Lease # API-169 Contract Amendment #3 to City Contract No. 150 be tween the City of
Cheyenne and the United States of America for additional lands for the development of a Veterans’
Administration Cemetery and a f uture City cemetery (to be loca ted at the USDA Experimental
Station off Roundtop Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#150)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-7-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works
Department, and Inman Roofing, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for roof replacement at the Logan Shop
Building project (General Fund Special Projects) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]  Transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office
for Community Investments, Inc., 507 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held
by Katrina M. Howell and Adam L. Howell d/b/a Scooter’s Scoreboard Bar, 507 E. Lincolnway,
Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Re-appointment of Jeannine Stallings to the Transit Advisory Board.  Mr. Roybal moved to
approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion ca rried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee).
Appointments of Angel Antunez, Maggie Black, Madison Cook, Sora Bullis, Jacob Freeman,
Julia Horst, Rachel Moseley, Kendra Redding, Tanner Robertson, Sawyer Ruben, Sommer Straub-
Waldron, Marvin Vinluan, Jason Weber, Josh Weber and Katie Williams to the 2015-16 Mayor’s
Youth Council.  Mr. Cook declared a conflict of interest and did not vote.  Dr. Rinne moved to
approve, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee).
[CA] Consideration to purchase new playground equipment to include sur facing for Highlands
Park fr om G ameTime d/b/a Gr eat We stern Pa rk &  Pla yground, Wel lsville, U tah ( Community
Facilities Fees, Land & Water Conservation Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an
amount not to exceed $52,644.99).
Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held November 9, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council
Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for applications for one available  re tail
liquor license filed with the City Clerk's Office by Central Enterprises, Inc., 1701 Carey Avenue;
Cheyenne E vent Center a t Pershing P laza, L LC, 1620 Pershing B oulevard; Chet Halvorson
Properties, LLC, 800 West 17  Street; Dough Dog, LLC, (address not yet issued) to be located offth
northwest corner of Dell Range Boulevard and Powderhouse Road; and Sam’s West, Inc. d/b/a
Sam’s Club, 1948 Dell Range Boulevard. 
Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held November 9, 2015 at 6:00pm in City Council
Chambers, 2101 O’ Neil Avenue , Che yenne, Wy oming, to dete rmine whe ther c ompliance of
annexation conditions required by  Wy oming Statute §15-1- 402 exis t for a p arcel of land of
approximately 28,921.40 square feet of a portion of the Monroe Avenue right-of-way located in a
portion of the SW ¼, NE ¼, of Section 27, T14N, R66W of the 6  Principal Meridian in Laramieth
County, Wyoming (located south of Green River Street and north of Rock Springs Street).
Under other business:
Jeff D ierksen, re sident, s poke r egarding a petition h e p resented t o co uncil a y ear a go
addressing speeding concerns for a portion of Pinto Lane.  He advised that he was directed to contact
the Neig hborhood Speed Watch Prog ram a nd applied to utiliz e the pr ogram within the
neighborhood.  He further noted he has a personal radar gun that he has used to track speeds and has
kept a log of license plate numbers and clocked speed limits and provided this information to the
MPO for review.  Tom Mason, Director of MPO, discussed the Pinto L ane Traffic Management
Program that was presented to the governing body earlier this year and explained the process the City
utilizes for requests of this type.  He further advised that recommendations were set forth to address
speeding issues on Pinto Lane and these have been implemented.  Mr . Mason clarified there is
criteria in place in gathering data on local streets vs. “collector” streets in which Pinto Lane is
considered a “collector” street where the speed limit is 30 mph.  Upon further inquiry, Mr. Mason
advised that the spe ed study  was c onducted in the Pinto L ane area in Marc h-April 2014 and
November of 2014.  Mr. Mason advised an internal meeting is planned with the City Engineer and
Police Chief to discuss this area’s concerns and how to proceed.  Mr. Dierksen and Councilwoman
Williams were advised of the meeting date, time and location. 
There being  no further  business to come be fore the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:36 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Kristy B. Anderson, CMC
 Deputy City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 October 30, 2015