MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-11-09 | CLIP_ID: 508 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 508

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
November 9, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  Present w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor
and Ms. Williams.  (City Clerk note: Vacancy (1) on Cit y Council, Ward I)  Also present: Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 26, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor moved to appr ove payment of
vouchers as pre sented, seconded by Mr. L una.  Inquiries were made  concerning the following
vouchers payable to: A-One Rental Inc. (rental of fork lift for temporary work at the Ice and Events
Center); Alco Fence Co. Inc. (repair to tennis court gate latch at United Nations Park); AlphaPage
of Wyoming, LLC (after hours telephone answering service monthly fee for Youth Alternatives);
Asher-Wyoming Arts & Cultural Event Center (facility rental for Lincolnway Placemaking Open
House); Churchich Recreation LLC (purchase of standard basketball court equipment for Highlands
Park); Evergreen Lawn and Tree Care (trimming of a wasp infested tree) and Laramie County Weed
and Pest (spraying of weeds (larkspur) on Belvoir Ranch).  Information in response to the inquiries
was provided by Todd Feezer, Assistant Director, Parks and Recreation; Mayor Kaysen; John Hall,
City Engineer, and Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for applications for
one available  retail liquor license filed with the City Clerk's Office by Central Enterprises, Inc., 1701
Carey Avenue; Cheyenne Event Center at Pershing Plaza, LLC, 1620 Pershing Boulevard; Chet
Halvorson Properties, LLC, 800 West 17  Street; Dough Dog, LLC, (address not yet issued) to beth
located off northwest corner of Dell Range Boulevard and Powderhouse Road; and Sam’s West, Inc.
d/b/a Sam’s Club, 1948 Dell Range  Boulevard.  Ma yor Kaysen advised pr esentations would be
accepted by each of the applicants in the order in which they are listed on the agenda with public
comments to follow after the presentations.  John Masters, representing Central Enterprises, Inc.,
stated the applicant is proposing to operate a restaurant to include on-site a lcohol services in the
building at 17  St. and Carey (1701 Carey Ave.) to offer a casual dining restaurant for primarilyth
lunch and dinner services; that plans are to also offer food and alcohol catering off-site services, and
that a separate private meeting room will be available within the facility.  He advised the business
will improve the downtown area; that financing is in place; that exterior renovations will begin as
weather permits and they are hoping to open in late 2017.  He provided information on current use
of the building and, upon inquiry, advised the upper level is being used for office space and Ballet
Wyoming has a short-term lease for space on the lower level.  Art Hansen provided information on
the application submitted by Cheyenne Event Center at Pershing Plaza, LLC, stating the proposal
is in cooperation with the WERCS group that holds the lease to the property.  He explained they are
planning on developing the east portion of the building (east of Gold’s Gym) to provide an event
center venue  for f amilies and the c ommunity, noting the ar ea w ould be on a r ental basis by
individuals who could hold such activi ties as weddings, receptions, parties, family reunions, and
meetings.  He noted other activities, such as certain types of athletic opportunities, are also being
considered.  Susie Stults, consultant with the project, provided information on the community need
for a facility that can a ccommodate large crowds (up to 250 people)  and off er food and alc ohol
catering services.  Ms. Stults explained a retail liquor license is desired as temporary alcohol catering
permits are limited to 2 4 permits per year per location.  Mr . Hansen advised they plan to begin
renovating the interior of the building in February-March 2016 and hope to be open by next summer.
Upon inquiry, Mr. Hansen stated they have not contemplated utilization of the center for such events
as rock concerts.  Chet Halvorson with  Chet Halvorson Properties, LLC, advised his application
focuses on a bar and restaurant concept through remodeling of the old steam plant building on West
17  Street.  He noted the business will help bring people to the west area of the city, noting that theth
business may also include some space for retail shops, offices and possibly loft living.  He advised
they would also offer catering services and a package liquor store.  He explained they plan to close
on purchasing the property in January, begin rehabilitation of the outside of the building in the
summer of 2016 and could possibly be open by summer of 2017.  Ha ns Kuhlmann, speaking on
behalf of Dough Dog, LLC, advised they have 12 acres of land under contract with the owner of the
majority of the prope rty site and t he intent is to develop the ea stern 6 acres to include r etail and
restaurant buildings.  He indicated the license is desired to be able to offer a full service restaurant
and bar with outside catering services.  He noted they hope to begin construction next summer and
the goal is to open by 2017.  Upon inquiry regarding the property zoning and its location within a
flood plain, Mr. Kuhlmann advised he is negotiating with the Airport Board to purchase a portion
of the property owned by the Board, and will need to address a number of entitlement issues,
including FEMA’s process, to move the project forward, noting that acreage on the west end of the
property may be needed for drainage storage purposes.  Randy Reed, attorney representing Sam’s
West, I nc., advised they are the only applicant that can put the full retail liquor license to us e
immediately, operate on a year round basis and contribute greatly to the city’s sales tax base.  He
noted the building and staffing already exist; that remodeling will involve a short time frame (3-6
months), and t hat employees w ill rece ive the re quired TI PS t raining.  Cody  Nelson, Ge neral
Manager, Sam’s Club in Cheyenne, provided information on Sam’s community involvement and
support of numerous or ganizations and events; Club membership; dispen sing room lay -out and
proposed p roducts t o b e so ld, a nd sta ted th e liq uor license w ould p rovide a lcohol s ales a s a
convenience for customers.  Dustin Col vert, Fresh Manager, Sam’s Club of Chey enne, reviewed
training that will be provided to employ ees for security, compliance, control and sa fety.  Upon
inquiry, Mr. Nelson indicated that pursuant to review of other Sam’s Club stores selling packaged
liquor, they couldn’t find any  impact on other e xisting liquor pac kage stores in the vic inity of
operation, and advised non-members of Sam’s Club would also be able to access the package store.
Mayor Kaysen advised that comments from the public would now be entertained.  Tom Kingham,
owner of Cloud 9 Liquorland, whose business is located in the par king lot of the same shopping
plaza where Sam’s Club is located, spoke in opposition to issuing the license to Sam’s Club, noting
his business concerns.  Les Moore commented on other types of liquor licenses and permits that
some of the applicants could perhaps utilize instead of a retail liquor license and expressed concern
with the length of time some of the applicants had indicated it would be before their business would
be in o peration.  F rank Col e sp oke in o pposition to i ssuing the  lic ense to D ough D og, L LC,
expressing his belief that the proposed business site should remain as open natural space, and stated
his concern that the area is located within a flood plain.  Boyd Wiggam urged City Council to be
cognizant of the business (applicant) they decide to issue the license to as it will become a valuable
asset for whomever is approved.  Kevin Georges, President, Laramie County Liquor Association,
commented on the good business ideas presented by some of the applicants but noted the length of
time it would take some of them to be operational, and spoke in opposition to Sam’s Club receiving
the license citing the effect it may have on other local licensees and concern with approving a “big
box” store to operate a package store under the liquor license.  There being no further comments or
input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the
applications to the Finance Committee.  He noted Finance Committee would meet to further review
the applications on Monday, November 16, 2015 at 11:00 a.m. in Room 122 of the M unicipal
Building and that the meeting was open to the public.
Mayor Kaysen opened a publi c hearing to determine w hether compliance of anne xation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a parcel of land of approximately
28,921.40 square feet of a portion of the Monroe Avenue right-of-way located in a portion of the SW
¼, NE ¼, of Section 27, T14N, R66W of the 6  Principal Meridian in Laramie County, Wyomingth
(located south of Green River Street and north of Rock Springs Street).  Mike Tylka, Development
office, provided information on the are a proposed to be anne xed, advising that affiliated actions
(zone change and plat process) are involved for development of the property.  He stated requirements
and compliance of annexation conditions contained in state statutes had been met.  Upon inquiry,
Mr. Tylka advised neighboring landowners had been notified of the pr oposed annexation and no
comments had been received.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing
having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE - 3  Reading - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel of landrd
approximately 6.17 acres situated in Lots 1, 8, and 9, Block 5; Lots 1-4, Block 6; and Lots 1-18,
Block 7, Sun Rise Hills Addition Filing No. 1, and the adjacent portions of Thomas Road, Johnston
Street, and a  portion of vac ated Sunrise Hills Drive, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the
southwest corner of Thomas and Ridge Roads).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4101)
ORDINANCE - 3  Reading - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Sectionrd
5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom Coun ty MR M edium D ensity
Residential to MR-2 Medium Density Residential-Developing for Lots 1, 8, and 9, Block 5; Lots 1-4,
Block 6; and Lots 1-18, Block 7, Sun Ri se Hills Addition Filing No. 1, and a portion of vacated
Sunrise Hills Drive, L aramie County, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of Thomas and
Ridge Roads).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4102)
ORDINANCE - 2  Reading - Amending the Major Street Plan Official Map by adding newlynd
platted and built roads, and by adding the extension of Christensen Road and revised right-of-way
between Commerce Circle and U.S. Highway 30.   John Hall, City Engineer, stated the street plan
was last revised in 2007 and that a number of roads have been platted and built, and the alignment
of Christensen Road has developed since that time.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Cook moved to amend, seconded by Mr. Roybal, by substitute map
that includes the following language: “The Official Map Amendment for ‘Morrie Avenue Extension
Runway 8/26 Underpa ss’ betwe en Airport Parkw ay and De ll Range  Blvd. wa s approve d by
Ordinance No. 3279 on May 13, 1996. Howeve r, the 2014 Maste r Tra nsportation Plan
(PlanCheyenne) did not include this extension.”.  Pursuant to comment that the Morrie underpass
connection would in all practicality never be financed and it should perhaps be removed from the
map as it will never be built, Mr. Hall advised it is up to the governing body’s discretion whether
they wished to remove it.  Comments followed on the underpass connection and the existing official
map with Mr. Hall providing information in response to comments, noting the updated map includes
changes in alignment for Christensen Road and subdivisions that have come into the City.  Motion
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr.
Rinne a nd Ms.  Willi ams v oting “ no”.  M ain m otion a s a mended c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll
members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. 
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations,ST
Chapter 5.76, Te mporary or Tra nsient Merchants; Residential Door-To- Door Sol icitors, of the
Cheyenne City Code, perta ining to a Re sidential Door- to-  Door Solicitors  Business L icense --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor).  Mayor Kaysen clarified that due to a clerical
error the printed agenda indicating the item would be referred to Public Services Committee was in
error, and that the correct committee for assignment was Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a  parcel ofST
land of approximately 28,921.40 square feet of a portion of Monroe Avenue Right-of-Way located
in a portion of the SW ¼, NE ¼, of Section 27, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P. M., Laramie County,th
Wyoming (located south of Green River Street and north of Rock Springs Street) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
                                
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Vacating a portion of the alley, being the easterly 14 feetST
of the a lley adjacent to the weste rly boundary of Lot 5, Block 1, Colonial Addition, Chey enne,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to E. 5  Avenue, east of Airport Parkway) -- referred toth
Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).   
ORDINANCE - 1  READING -   Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from P Public to MUB Mixed - Use
Business Emphasis for Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block 660, South Cheyenne, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. 6  Street and Van Lennen Avenue) -- referred toth
Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business and MR-1
Medium Density Residential - Established to MUB Mixed Use Business Emphasis for Lot 1, Block
1, Cheyenne Baptist Temple Addition, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the
intersection of E. Pershing Boulevard and Logan Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING -  Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-2 Medium Density Residential -
Developing to CB Community Business for Lots 14-16, Block 1; and to MR-2 Medium Density
Residential - Developing for Lots 1-13 and Lots 17-26, Block 1, Dry Creek Business Park, a replat
of Lots 1-20, Bloc k 1 and L ots 1-18, Bloc k 2, E hernberger Subdi vision, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the northeast corner of the intersection of North College Drive and Rock Springs Street) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Purchasing Division of the City of Cheyenne to proceed
on a semiannual basis with the sale of surplus property pursuant to W.S. § 15-1-112(a).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5722)
  
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to lease, with an option to
purchase, sanitati on, recycling, and landf ill equipment.  Moti on (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5723)
                  
[CA] RESOLUTION - To a dopt the Certifica te of Canva ss and Dec laration of R esults of the
Canvassing Board for the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Special Election
held October 20, 2015.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5724)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible d ebts i n the
amount of $43,643.08 pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing t he filing of an application w ith the  F ederal Transit
Administration, an operating administration of the United States Department of Transportation, for
federal transportation assistance authorized by Title 49, United States Code, Section 5307 (Cheyenne
Transit Program) -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2016 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- r eferred to Financ e Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting an amendment to the future land use map in PlanCheyenne, the
master plan for the City of Cheyenne and the comprehensive plan for portions of Laramie County,
amending the land use category from Urban Residential to Mixed Use Commercial for Lots 14-16,
Block 1, Dry Creek Business Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, part of a replat of Lots 1-20, Block 1 and
Lots 1-18, Block 2, Ehernberger Subdivision (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of
North College Drive and Rock Springs Street) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Cook).
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Van Tassell Parsley Subdivision, a replat of all of Block 10; Lots 1 and
12, Block 11; Lots 1 and 17, Block 12, Interior Heights Replat and adjacent streets and alleys thereto,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of Parsley Boulevard and Van Tassell Court) --
referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Preliminary Plat for PKT Subdivision, a replat of Tract 318, Sunnyside Addition, 7  Filing,th
and Lot 2, Sunnyside Meadows, Cheyenne, Wyoming (annexation intended) (located between Pierce
and Polk Avenues, a nd Rock Sp rings and Green River Stree ts) -- r eferred to Publi c Servic es
Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Sarah C. Moyer for crime
victim assistance services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (approved in base salary amount
of $17,984.00). (#6429)
 
[CA] Real Estate Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Church of St. Mary for
real property described as the east 4 feet of Lot 5, the west 31 feet of Lot 6, and Lot 8, Block 227,
City of C heyenne, County of L aramie, State of  Wyoming, for t he pu rpose of  the W est E dge
Development Project (Federal Emergency Management Agency, Community Development Block
Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $361,700.00). (#6430)
Easement Agreement between Robert E. Gre en, Sr., Trustee  of the Rober t E. Gree n, Sr.
Living Trust, and the City of Cheyenne, for a Trail Easement to be used in conjunction with the open
space prog ram of the  Be lvoir Ranch and Re d Mountain (B ig H ole).  Reporting for  Financ e
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Brown moved to amend
by substitute, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  It was advised the proposed substitute includes the addition
of GPS coordinates on the  map.  Motion to amend ca rried.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the
governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. (#6431)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County Community
Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth at Johnson
Junior Hig h School (21  Century Co mmunity Learning Ce nters Cohort Eig ht Grant F unds) --st
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,
and Benchmark Engineers, PC, t o develop the Capitol Basin 26  Street Interceptor storm sewerth
design (United States Ec onomic Deve lopment Admi nistration Funding ) --  ref erred to Fina nce
Committee.
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and DHM Design Corporation, to p rovide schematic design, design development,
construction documents, bidding assistance  and construc tion administration for the Cahill Park
Universally Accessible Playground (Community Facilities Fees) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-7-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works
Department, and Inman Roofing, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for roof replacement at the Logan Shop
Building project (General Fund Special Projects).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
bid in an amount not to exceed $128,000.00). (#6432)
[CA] Consideration of B id #S-9-16 for a  contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, a nd Re iman Co rporation &  Su bsidiary, Ch eyenne, Wy oming, f or th e 1 9  Streetth
Reconstruction Phase 2 Project (2011 - 2014 & 2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax, Board of Public Utilities
Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-12-16 for furnishing Microsoft Software and License Purchase for
the Information Technology Division from Dell Marketing, L.P.,  Round Rock, Texas -- referred to
Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointment of Tim Thorson to the City-County Health
Board, to be confirmed November 23, 2015.
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at
the February 17, 2016 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Business  M eeting -- referred to
Finance Committee.   
[CA] Consideration of single source purchase of building security video and interview rooms video
systems for the new Cheyenne Public Safety Center from CDW-G, Parrish, Florida (1% Specific
Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Under other business, Bart Stolp referenced comments he had made during an October 2014
City Council meeting concerning traffic and speed limits on Van Buren Avenue, near D ildine
Elementary School, and noted limited improvements have  been ma de, and r equested additional
measures be implemented to reduce the speed limit.  Mayor Kaysen advised that staff has conducted
several studies for the area and the findings did not warrant any additional changes.  Ms. Williams
commented on traffic concerns involving speed limits in certain neighborhoods in other locations
within the Cit y, and sug gested re view by  the g overning body  on standards a nd g uidelines be
conducted.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 7:39 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 November 19, 2015