MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-11-23 | CLIP_ID: 511 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 511

R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
November 23, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Ri nne, Sco tt
Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Annette Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk; Dan White,
City Attorney, and Jeff White, appointment nominee for City Council Ward I vacancy.  The pledge
of allegiance was recited.
APPOINTMENT OF JEFF WHITE TO FILL A VACANCY ON CITY COUNCIL WARD
I, FOR THE UNEXPIRED TERM OF THE LATE JIMMY R. VALDEZ.  Ms. Williams moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Comments in support of Mr. White’s appointment were made.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all current members of the governing body.  The Honorable Mark
Moran, Municipal Court Judge, administered the oath of appointment to Mr. White.  Mr. White
expressed appreciation for being selected to serve as a City Council member and j oined other
members of the governing body on the dais.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Luna  moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 9, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Shanor moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
 ORDINANCE - 3  Reading - Amending the Major Street Plan Official Map by adding newlyrd
platted and built roads, and by adding the extension of Christensen Road and revised right-of-way
between Commerce Circle and U.S. Highway 30.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr.
Cook moved to  a pprove o n th ird a nd f inal r eading, s econded b y M r. Jo hnson.  U pon in quiry
regarding whether sidewalks would be included with this project,  Mayor Kaysen advised sidewalks
are normally constructed when an area is developed.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body. (#4103)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - A mending Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations,nd
Chapter 5.76, Te mporary or Tra nsient Merchants; Residential D oor-To-Door Solicitors, of the
Cheyenne City  Code, perta ining to a Re sidential Door-to-Door Solicitors Business L icense.
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown advised there was no recommendation on the item
from Finance Committee.  Mr. B rown moved to a pprove on se cond reading, seconded by Mr.
Shanor.  I t was advised the amendment would allow eligible applicants to a pply for a 6 mo nth
license vs. a 14 day license.  D iscussion followed on the proposed fee ($300.00) for a 6 mo nth
license vs. a 14 day license ($100.00) and loss of revenue to the City; support for the amendment to
benefit those licensees w ho comply with door-to-door soliciting  requirements, and intent of the
major changes made to the licensing provisions earlier this year enacting additional restrictions on
solicitation practices.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Ms. Williams voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a  parcel ofnd
land of approximately 28,921.40 square feet of a portion of Monroe Avenue Right-of-Way located
in a portion of the SW ¼, NE ¼, of Section 27, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P. M., Laramie C ounty,th
Wyoming (located south of Green River Street and north of Rock Springs Street).  Mr. Cook moved
to a pprove on  se cond r eading, s econded b y Mr . Sh anor.  Mo tion c arried.  Voting “y es” -- a ll
members of the governing body.  
                                
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Vacating a portion of the alley, being the easterly 14 feetnd
of the alley adjacent to the westerly boundary of Lot 5, Block 1, Colonial Addition, Chey enne,
Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to E. 5  Avenue, east of A irport Parkway).  Mr. Cookth
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Purs uant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from P Public to MUB Mixed - Use
Business Emphasis for Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block 660, South Cheyenne, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
at the southwest  corner of the intersection of E. 6  Street and V an Lennen Avenue).  Mr. Cookth
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business and MR-1
Medium Density Residential - Established to MUB Mixed Use Business Emphasis for Lot 1, Block
1, Cheyenne Baptist Temple Addition, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the
intersection of E. Pershing Boulevard and Logan Avenue).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body.  
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-2 Medium Density Residential -
Developing to CB Community Business for Lots 14-16, Block 1; and to MR-2 Medium Density
Residential - Developing for Lots 1-13 and Lots 17-26, Block 1, Dry Creek Business Park, a replat
of Lots 1-20, Bloc k 1 and L ots 1- 18, Block 2, Ehernbe rger Subdivision, Chey enne, Wyoming
(located at the northeast corner of the intersection of North College Drive and Rock Springs Street).
Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.  
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b) of the CheyenneST
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 5.1.5 for the purpose of increasing maximum
total lot coverage allowed in some  residential lot ty pes -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b) of the  CheyenneST
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Article 5, Zoning Regulations, Table 5-1, Districts
and Uses, contained in Section 5.1.4, and Section 5.7.3, Accessory Dwelling Units, for the purpose
of modifying the existing regulation of accessory dwelling units and to provide an expanded as-of-
right path afte r administrative review -- r eferred to Publi c Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr .
Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - A mending Section 2.64.030, Def initions, and dele tingST
Section 2.64.090, Demolition Permit Review, and re-creating Section 2.64.090, Demolition Permit
and Moving Permit Review, of Chapter 2.64, Historic Preservation Board, of Title 2, Administration
and Personnel, of the City Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City  Treasurer to discharg e uncollectible debts in the
amount of $43,643.08 pursuant to Wy o. Stat. §16-4-502.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5725)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Au thorizing the filing o f a n a pplication w ith t he F ederal Transit
Administration, an operating administration of the United States Department of Transportation, for
federal transportation assistance authorized by Title 49, United States Code, Section 5307 (Cheyenne
Transit Program).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5726)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2016 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5727)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting an amendment to the future land use map in PlanCheyenne, the
master plan for the City of Cheyenne and the comprehensive plan for portions of Laramie County,
amending the land use category from Urban Residential to Mixed Use Commercial for Lots 14-16,
Block 1, Dry Creek Business Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, part of a replat of Lots 1-20, Block 1 and
Lots 1-18, Block 2, Ehernberger Subdivision (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of
North College Drive and Rock Springs Street).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5728)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Sup porting the City of Cheyenne’s application for  a L and and Water
Conservation Fund Grant for a Universally Accessible Playground in Cahill Park -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cheyenne
Baptist Temple Addition, a replat of a  portion of L ot 5, Block 186; L ots 1-4, Bloc k 187; and a
portion of E. 23  Street, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of therd
intersection of E. Pershing Boulevard and Logan Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Dry Creek
Business Park, a replat of Lots 1-20, Block 1; and Lots 1-18, Block 2, Ehernberger Subdivision,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of North College Drive and
Rock Springs Street) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing a street name change from Monroe Avenue to Frank Court for
the portion of the street located north of Rock Springs Street and originally platted with Sunnyside
Addition, 7  Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming -- referred to Public Servicesth
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the budget of the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services
Joint Powers Board for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2015 and ending June 30, 2016 -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
Preliminary Plat for Van Tassell Parsley Subdivision, a replat of all of Block 10; Lots 1 and
12, Block 11; Lots 1 and 17, Block 12, Interior Heights Replat and adjacent streets and alleys thereto,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of Parsley Boulevard and Van Tassell Court).
Mr. Cook moved to acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve with staff
recommendations #1 and 4, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Cook moved to postpone to December
14, 2015, seconded by Ms. Williams.  It was noted that staff had requested postponement to allow
for f urther r eview r egarding c oncerns inv olving potential e nvironmental e xposure.  M otion to
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Preliminary Plat for PKT Subdivision, a replat of Tract 318, Sunnyside Addition, 7  Filing,th
and Lot 2, Sunnyside Meadows, Cheyenne, Wyoming (annexation intended) (located between Pierce
and Polk Avenues, a nd Rock Springs a nd Green River Stree ts).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried (acknowledged Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve). 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County Community
Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth at Johnson
Junior High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Eight Grant Funds).  Motionst
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6436)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department,
and Benchmark Engineers, PC, t o develop the Ca pitol Basin 26  Street Interceptor storm sewerth
design (United States Ec onomic Development Administ ration Funding).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $574,755.00). (#6437)
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and DHM Design Corporation, to p rovide schematic design, design development,
construction documents, bidding assistance  and con struction administration for the Cahill Park
Universally Accessible Playground (Community Facilities Fees).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried (amount not to exceed $88,407.00). (#6438)
[CA] Grant Award Agreement with the State of Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a Grant
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), Grant Programs Directorate, State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) Grant Fiscal Year
2015, in the amount of $305,856.00, for the City of Cheyenne Regional Emergency Response Team
#7 (Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency,  Grant Programs
Directorate, State Homeland Security Program) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Consideration of Proposal fr om CIGNA Health and Life Insurance Company to provide
Group Health Care for employees of the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Finance Committee.  Mr.
Brown advised the item had been reviewed under other items for the agenda at the December 16,
2015 Finance Committee meeting and provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.  Mr. Brown
advised that Finance Committee’s recommendation was to approve contingent upon receipt of the
proposed contract no later than the current meeting, and noted the contract had been received.  Mr.
Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Rich Wiederspahn, Human Resources Director,
provided infor mation on the Request for Proposa ls (RFPs) process, which involved re view of
proposals by an ad-hoc employee insurance committee, and stated that subsequent to proposals being
received, the City received notice that its current provider (WINHealth) was in receivership under
the State Department of Insurance.  He advised current coverage under WINHealth would expire on
December 31, 2015 and that switching to CIGNA as a new provider is hoped to be a fairly seamless
transition for employees, although there is a need to expedite the open enrollment process contingent
upon approval of CIGNA’s proposal.  Mr. Wiederspahn briefly reviewed costs, benefits and main
provisions of the proposal.  Matt Pickett, CIGNA representative, advised they have a long history
of providing services in Wyoming, including large member groups, and stated CIGNA is looking
forward t o serving City employees.  U pon inquiry, Mr. Wiederspahn pr ovided information on
membership composition of the insurance committee and the process that was followed resulting in
the CIGNA recommendation.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#6439)
[CA] Professional Services agreement with AVI , Inc. for preliminary design and construc tion
observation for the 17  Street Lighting project -- referred to Finance Committee. th
[CA] Amendment No. 4 to Contract No. 3516 between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming
Association of Risk Manag ement P roperty Insurance Joint Powers B oard for an A mended and
Restated Joint Powers Agreement  relating to property insurance -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-9-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corpor ation & Subsidiary , Chey enne, Wy oming, f or the 19  Streetth
Reconstruction Phase 2 Project (2011 - 2014 & 2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax, Board of Public Utilities
Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $5,391,668.60). (#6440)
Consideration of Bid #E-12-16 for furnishing Microsoft Software and License Purchase for
the Information Technology Division from Dell Marketing, L.P.,  Round Rock, Texas.  Mr. Brown
moved to accept the bid, contingent upon funding approval, in an amount not to exceed $104,934.60,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-13-16 for the surplus sale of  bulk wood (r evenue to the City ) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-15-16 one new 2015-2016 SUV and one new mid-size pickup for
the City of Cheyenne (2015- 2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-16-16 for two new 2015-2016 Steiner 440 tractor mowers (or equal)
for the Parks Division and for the Street & Alley Division (2011- 2014 1%  Sales Tax) -- referred
to Finance Committee.
Applications for one  available retail liquor license filed with the City  Clerk's Office by
Central Enterprises, Inc., 1701 Carey Avenue; Cheyenne Event Center at Pershing Plaza, LLC, 1620
Pershing Boulevard; Chet Halvorson Properties, LLC, 800 West 17  Street; Dough Dog, LLC,th
(address not y et issued) to be loc ated of f northwe st corner of D ell Rang e B oulevard and
Powderhouse Road, and Sam’s West, Inc. d/b/a Sam’s Club, 1948 Dell Range Boulevard.  Mayor
Kaysen announced that Dough Dog, LLC requested their application be withdrawn from the agenda.
Upon quer y and with no objection ra ised by members of  the g overning body, Mayor Ka ysen
announced the applica tion was being  withdraw n for c onsideration.  Randy  Reed, a ttorney
representing Sam’s Club, clarified, pursuant to information provided at the public hearing, that if
Sam’s Club is approved for the license that no direct sales to the general public will be conducted
and products would only be available to Club members.  He referenced and discussed a letter he had
previously submitted on the topic of comments by competing local liquor licensees and stated those
comments should not play a role in the governing body’s decision on a successful applicant.  Mr.
Reed provided additional comments and information in support of the Sam’s Club application and
the Club’s contributions to the economy  and tax base; discussed the governing body’s applicant
guidelines pursuant to Resolution #5692, and advised the retail license is the only license type that
would allow for the store’s proposed package sales environment.  Cody Nelson, Sam’s Club Store
Manager, a lso spoke in favor of  the applica tion and provided a dditional information on the
assortment o f b everages th at w ould b e off ered.  D eborah H erron, D irector of  Pub lic Af fairs,
Walmart, stated if the license is awarded to Sam’s Club, the organization plans to become involved
in the county beverage association, and reiterated the retail license type is what is needed for the
proposed operation.   Sam Galeotos, Central Enterprises, Inc.,  provided a handout (on file with City
Clerk’s Office) titled “Summary  of Project Benefits”, and reviewed key points outl ined in the
summary involving support of the Downtown Development Authority (DDA) vision; renovation of
a historic building; economic benefits; additional dining and catering service opportunities for the
community; anticipated construction schedule providing for a completion date in 2017, and property
ownership and financing that is already in place.  Chet Halvorson, Chet Halvorson Properties, LLC,
advised their plans to utilize the license involves renovation of the old steam plant property and the
focus is on redevelopment of the neighborhood.  He stated the project would serve as an anchor for
the West Edge, downtown and 17  Street Lighting projects.  Art Hanson, Cheyenne Event Centerth
at Pershing Plaza, LLC, noted their application involves creation of an event center for families and
the community, and noted that he  has bee n contacted by several individuals rece ntly who have
expressed support for the project and offered to volunteer their services.  Inquiries to applicants
posed by City Council members included: Applicant’s anticipated time frame in which to operate
under the license; applicant plans involving their project if they were not approved to receive the
license, and proposed business trad e names.  Applicants provided informa tion in response to the
inquiries.  Jeff Dierkson expressed his preference that the governing body lean towards approving
the license that would go towards the greatest good of all residents, and commented on the license
being a financial asset and utilization of the license in the downtown area.  Kevin Georges, President,
Laramie County Liquor Association, expressed concern with membership re quirements vs. sales
open to the g eneral public; comm ented on attra cting and re taining busine sses, and stated the
capability of offering alcohol catering services (off-premise) is a big issue as other liquor license
types prohibit this type of service.  Mr. Brown stated there was no recommendation on the agenda
item from Finance Committee.  Ms. Williams moved to award the retail license to Chet Halvorson
Properties, LLC, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Comment followed on development of this portion of the
City to include restaurant/liquor services and how it ties in with the West Edge project and potential
investors.  Mr. Shanor a nd Mr. Luna stepped down from the da is to provide a pre sentation on a
metrics model they developed to rate each application based upon the main criteria of social and
economic benefit with Mr. Shanor reviewing the criteria they had established and the rating for each
applicant (hand-out provided on file with City Clerk’s office).  Following their presentation, Mr.
Shanor and Mr. Luna re-assumed their seats on the dais and, pursuant to clarification requested by
Mayor Kaysen, Mr. Shanor c larified the metrics criteria and applicant ranking were the result of
review conducted by himself and Mr. L una and not a ll members of the g overning body.  Upon
inquiry, Mr. Halvorson advised he wouldn’t have already invested financially in the old steam plant
property project if he didn’t think he could move forward with the project.  He noted they plan to
close on acquiring ownership of the property in January, and indicated there will be minor mitigation
of property environmental issues.  Further comment followed on the historic theme proposed for the
project and economic development for the vicinity.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr.
White and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no “ -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal,
Mr. Shanor and Mayor Kaysen.  Mr. Shanor moved to award the license to Central Enterprises, Inc.,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Discussion topics included: Support of downtown revitalization; resources
and physical building al ready being in p lace; favorable timeline in w hich to have the business
operational; the financial “gift” a retail-type liquor license affords to licensees due to state liquor
laws; best use of a retail license; licenses as an economic tool; metrics criteria, and vision of the 17th
Street Lighting project.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Galeotos stated he is a supporter of the DDA.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson, Mr.
White and Ms. Williams voting “no”.  
Re-Appointment of Tim Thorson to t he City-County Health Board.  M r. Luna moved to
approve, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee). 
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at
the February 17, 2016 Wy oming Association of Municipalities Business  Mee ting.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (approved Mayor Richard L. Kaysen, Official Voting Delegate; City Clerk
Carol Intlekofer, Alternate Delegate).

[CA] Consideration of single source purchase of building security video and interview rooms video
systems for the new Cheyenne Public Safety Center from CDW-G, Parrish, Florida (1% Specific
Purpose Sales &  Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$81,842.30). 
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Chuck West to Board of Adjustment; Craig
E. Ker rigan and L ori Kempter -Mansell to the Housing &  Communi ty Deve lopment Advisory
Council; Marcene VanDerHaar and Gary Sims to the Historic Preservation Board; Mark Gaskill to
Mayor's Council for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed December 14, 2015.
 Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Michael R. O’Donnell and John G.
Knepper to the Board of Adjustment; Stephen M. Ganison, Carol Slane and Jared S. Olsen to the
Housing & Community Development Advisory Council, to be confirmed December 14, 2015.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 14, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership for
a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Scooters Scoreboard, LLC
d/b/a Scooters Scoreboard Bar, 507 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by
Community Investments, Inc., 507 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 14, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership for
a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Anong’s Thai Cuisine
LLC d/b/a Anong’s Thai Cuisine, 620 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held
by Anong and Brett Larson d/b/a Anong’s Thai Cuisine, 620 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 14, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue , Chey enne, Wy oming, to dete rmine whe ther
compliance of annex ation conditions require d by  Wy oming Statute §15-1- 402 exis t for
approximately 8.68 acres of land situated in a portion of Dell Range Addition, Second Filing, North
½ Tract 31, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge
Road and Summit Drive); and a portion of Summit Drive right-of-way, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located between Ridge Road and College Drive). 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 14, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to hear public comment on a
proposed trade of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne at the intersection of East 23rd Street
and Pershing Boulevard in exchange for additional right-of-way along Pershing Boulevard to be
dedicated to the public by Cheyenne Baptist Temple, a Wyoming non-profit corporation. 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 7:42 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 4, 2015