MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-12-14 | CLIP_ID: 513 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 513

 R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
December 14, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Ji m Brown, Richard Johnson, Mike L una, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roy bal, Dicky
Shanor, Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Absent: Bryan Cook.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City
Clerk, and John Ridge, Deputy City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Johnson, and pursuant to support received
by Ms. Williams and Mr. Roybal, agenda item #34 (b) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr.
Shanor moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 23, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Shanor each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and voucher payable to the State Loan and Investment Board
respectively) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Inquiry was made concerning the following vouchers payable
to: Affordable Lawn Care & Maintenance, LLC (nuisance code abatement services); Capital Lumber
Co. (material to repair tree house in Lions Park); Castek (bike lane safety green paint and installation
consulting); Servi Tech, Inc. (Prairie View golf course soil tests), and Summit Engineering, LLC
(Saddle Ridge Greenway connection design including reimbursable expenses).  Mayor Kaysen and
Rick Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation, provided information in response to the inquiries.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers
with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
and Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Ka ysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a transfer of
ownership for a r etail liquor lic ense application filed with the City  Clerk's Office for Scooters
Scoreboard, LLC d/b/a Scooters Scoreboard Bar, 507 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming  (License
currently held by Community Investments, Inc., 507 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  There
being no comments and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public
hearing and referred the item to Finance Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to rec eive comments and input for a transfer of
ownership for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Anong’s
Thai Cuisine, LLC d/b/a Anong’s Thai Cuisine, 620 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License
currently held by  Anong  and B rett L arson d/b/a Anong ’s Thai Cui sine, 620 Centra l Avenue,
Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Th ere being no comments and purpose of the hearing having been met,
Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and referred the item to Finance Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hea ring to determ ine whether compliance of anne xation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1- 402 exis t for appr oximately 8.68 acr es of land
situated in a portion of Dell Range Addition, Second Filing, North ½ Tract 31, Laramie County,
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and Summit Drive); and
a portion of Summit Drive right-of-way, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Ridge Road
and Colleg e Dr ive).  Seth L loyd, Deve lopment Department, provided informa tion on the are a
proposed to be annexed, advising that affiliated actions (zone change and plat process) are involved
for property development plans.  He stated requirements and compliance of annexation conditions
contained in state statutes had been met.  Ruth Dowell questioned the annexation area, expressing
concern with City emergency services response time relative to the county fire station in the vicinity.
Mayor Kaysen advised f urther review of the proposed a nnexation in conjunction with affiliated
agenda items would a t the next P ublic S ervices Commit tee mee ting.  The re be ing no f urther
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public
hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to hear public comment on a proposed trade of real
property owned b y the City of Chey enne a t the intersec tion of East 23nd Street and Per shing
Boulevard in exchange for additional right-of-way along Pershing Boulevard to be dedicated to the
public by Cheyenne Baptist Temple, a Wyoming non-profit corporation.  There being no comments
and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing. 
 ORDINANCE - 3  READING - A mending Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations,rd
Chapter 5.76, Temporary or Transient Me rchants; Residential Door-To-Door Solicitors, of  t he
Cheyenne City Code, pertaining to a Residential Door-to-Door Solicitors Business License.  Gabriel
Pina spoke in opposition to the proposed 6 month license term for eligible applicants,  suggesting
consideration of a 3 month license instead and changing the requirement regarding the number of
prior 14 day licenses the applicant had to receive to a shorter time frame (one per quarter) rather than
the previous 12 months, and expressed overall concerns with the purpose of the proposed ordinance
change.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Roy bal.  Discussion followed on loss of lice nsing revenue affiliated with the
proposed 6  mon th v s. the  c urrent 1 4 d ay lic ense fe e; f eedback re ceived f rom th e c ommunity
regarding residents’ overall dislike for door-to-door soliciting, and provisions of current city code
restricting solicitors from instigating contact with residents who have posted no soliciting signs on
the premises.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor.  Voting “no” --
Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. White, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a  parcel ofrd
land of approximately 28,921.40 square feet of a portion of Monroe Avenue Right-of-Way located
in a portion of the S W ¼, NE ¼, of Section 27, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P. M., Laramie County,th
Wyoming (located south of Green River Street and north of Rock Springs Street).  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by
Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4104)
                                
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Vacating a portion of the alley, being the easterly 14 feetrd
of the a lley adjacent to th e westerly boundary of L ot 5, Block 1, Colonial Addition, Chey enne,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to E. 5  Avenue, east of Airport Parkway).  Mr. Shanorth
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (# 4105)
ORDINANCE -  3  REA DING -  Pur suant t o Se ction 2 .2.1, Zoning Ma p A mendments,rd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from P Public to MUB Mixed - Use
Business Emphasis for Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block 660, South Cheyenne, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. 6  Street and Van Lennen Avenue).  Mr. Shanorth
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4106)
ORDINANCE -  3  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1, Zoning Ma p Amen dments,rd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business and MR-1
Medium Density Residential - Established to MUB Mixed Use Business Emphasis for Lot 1, Block
1, Cheyenne Baptist Temple Addition, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the
intersection of E. Pershing Boulevard and Logan Avenue).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third
and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present. (#4107)
ORDINANCE -  3  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1, Zoning Ma p A mendments,rd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-2 Medium Density Residential -
Developing to CB Community Business for Lots 14-16, Block 1; and to MR-2 Medium Density
Residential - Developing for Lots 1-13 and Lots 17-26, Block 1, Dry Creek Business Park, a replat
of Lots 1-20, Bloc k 1 and L ots 1-18, Bloc k 2, Ehernberge r Subdivision, C heyenne, Wyoming
(located at the northeast corner of the intersection of North College Drive and Rock Springs Street).
Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  (#4108)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b) of the Cheyennend
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 5.1.5 for the purpose of increasing maximum
total lot coverage allowed in some  residential lot types.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Upon inquiry, Brandon Cammarata, Development Director,
verified the lot types affected by the ordinance change would be types DD5, DD6, SD1 and SD2, and
that type DD7 listed in the staff report was incorrect.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b) of the Cheyennend
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Article 5, Zoning Regulations, Table 5-1, Districts
and Uses, contained in Section 5.1.4, and Section 5.7.3, Accessory Dwelling Units, for the purpose
of modifying the existing regulation of accessory dwelling units and to provide an expanded as-of-
right path after administrative review.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Ms. Williams.  Upon inquiry, Logan Graves, Planning Department, stated utility charges assessed
for a ny additional dwelling  unit w ould be pursua nt to the specific utility  entity’s re quirement
involved; clarified that property taxes are assessed through the County and not the City and that any
property covena nts or provisions of h omeowners’ associa tions would prevail, and pr ovided
information on parking requirements.  Comments followed on neighborhood aesthetics concerns,
affordable housing and individual personal family need scenarios.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - A mending Section 2.64.030, Def initions, and dele tingnd
Section 2.64.090, Demolition Permit Review, and re-creating Section 2.64.090, Demolition Permit
and Moving Permit Review, of Chapter 2.64, Historic Preservation Board, of Title 2, Administration
and Personnel, of the City Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve
on second r eading, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Com ment was made  that an ame ndment to the
definition o f t he t erm “d emolition” m ay b e o ffered p rior to ordinance action o n fi nal reading.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential-
Established to MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for the N½ of Lots 3 and 4; and Lot 2, Block
252, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of E. 21st
Street and Alexander Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook). 
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Ordinance No. 4081, annexing to the City ofST
Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of Tract 1, H and B Tracts, situated in the NW¼ of Section 12,
T.13N., R .67W., 6  P. M.,  L aramie Co unty, Wy oming, to  b e k nown a s H eiduck A dditionth
Annexation (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Southwest Drive and Interstate 80)
-- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, parcels ofST
land of approximately 8.86 acres of land situated in a portion of Dell Range Addition, Second Filing,
Tract 31, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge
Road and Summit Drive); and a portion of Summit Drive right-of-way, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located between Ridge Road and College Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor
-- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural
Residential to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential - High Density for a portion of Dell Range Addition,
Second Filing, Tract 31, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Summit Park (located at the southeast
corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and Summit Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the City of Chey enne’s application for  a L and and Water
Conservation Fund Grant for  a Univer sally Accessible Playground in Cahill Park.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5729)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cheyenne
Baptist Temple Addition, a replat of a  portion of L ot 5, Block 186; L ots 1-4, Block 187; and a
portion of E. 23  Street, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of therd
intersection of E. Pershing Boulevard and Logan Avenue.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5730)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Dry Creek
Business Park, a replat of Lots 1-20, Block 1; and Lots 1-18, Block 2, Ehernberger Subdivision,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of North College Drive and
Rock Springs Street).  Mr. Shanor moved to adopt with staff conditions #1 and 2, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend staff condition #1 to read as follows, seconded by Dr. Rinne:
“The City shall be on the dedication note as a co-applicant and entitled to the easterly 30’ of vacated
right-of-way.  Lot 9 shall be divided into 2 lots, one of which would be roughly 4,000 square feet
and owned by the City.  The City is willing to negotiate on the placement of the line and the location
of the due 4,000 square feet.”  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members o f t he
governing body present.  Main motion as amende d carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present. (#5731)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing a street name change from Monroe Avenue to Frank Court for
the portion of the street located north of Rock Springs Street and originally platted with Sunnyside
Addition, 7  Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming. Motion (per Consent Agenda)th
carried. (#5732)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the budget of the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services
Joint Powers Board for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2015 and ending June 30, 2016.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5733)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Designating the Sundays during 2016 that annual liquor licensees may
extend dispensing room hours of operation for sales until 2:00 a.m. the following day -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2016 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne supports the
application to be submitted by the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming,
to the State Loan and Investment Board for BFY 2015-2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant
Funding in the amount of $135,000 for the Town of Albin’s three projects (Community Center Gym,
Rodeo Arena Completion and Town Vehicle Purchase) -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Brown).
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to execute a Memorandum of
Understanding creating a partnership with F.E. Warren Force Support Squadron for the development
of additional Youth Sports and Recr eation Programs and Special Eve nts -- re ferred to F inance
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).  Mr. Brown advised the item was discussed under other items
for the agenda at the December 7, 2015 Finance Committee meeting and provisions of Title 2 of City
Code had been met.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Rick Parish,
Parks and Recreation Director, noted the timeliness of the item was due to a scheduled public signing
of the Memorandum of Understanding and affiliated documents that had been set for December 15 .th
Upon inquiry regarding access to F.E. Warren and security requirements, Mayor Kaysen indicated
program participants’ access to the base would be pursuant to F.E. Warren requirements.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (Res #5734/Cont#6443)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd City  Cle rk to e xecute a State Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government Grant Agreement for attendance at the 2016 Saving
Places Conference -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Amending the Neighborhood Traffic Management Program (NTMP) - 2015
which was adopted by Resolution No. 5657 -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr.
Roybal).
Preliminary Plat for Van Tassell Parsley Subdivision, a replat of all of Block 10; Lots 1 and
12, Block 11; Lots 1 and 17, Block 12, Interior Heights Replat and adjacent streets and alleys thereto,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of Parsley Boulevard and Van Tassell Court)
(postponed from Nov. 23, 2015).  Phillip Regeski, Engineering and Consulting Alliance, stated he
was pre sent to answer  any  questions.  Mr. Shanor moved  to acknow ledge the Planning
Commission’s r ecommendation to  a pprove with  staff conditions # 1 a nd 4,  se conded b y Ms.
Williams.  Discussion followed and included comments of concern pertaining to the City’s liability
due to risk of ground contamination; provisions of staff condition #1; legal analysis involving the
City’s liability; support for the pr oject over all; prox imity of t he property to Dave R. Romero
Community Pa rk, a nd po ssible c onsideration o f t he de velopment p roject in  the  fu ture if
contamination concerns are mitigated.  Motion failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing
body present.
[CA] Grant Award Agreement with the State of Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a Grant
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), Grant Programs Directorate, State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) Grant Fiscal Year
2015, in the amount of $305,856.00, for the City of Cheyenne Regional Emergency Response Team
#7 (Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency,  Grant Programs
Directorate, State Homeland Security Program).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6444)
Professional Services agreement with AVI , Inc. for preliminary design and construc tion
observation for the 17  Street Lighting project. Pete Laybourn expressed concerns with the lengthth
of t ime it has taken to move the project forward since voter approval of the 6  penny ballotth
proposition and questioned what ef forts had been done to a cquire complete project funding.  He
commented on agreement wording involving preliminary design and construction observation; lack
of holiday tree lighting at the downtown parking structure and depot plaza, and street, curb and gutter
conditions in the downtown area which involved an AVI project several years ago and quality of
work concerns.  Mr. Laybourn suggested the governing body reject or postpone action on the
agreement.  Pursuant to  inquiry by Mr. Laybourn during his comments, Mayor Kaysen provided
response information concerning the purpose and scope of work pursuant to the proposed agreement;
project funding and revenue collection process involving the 6  penny sales tax, and constraints thatth
affect holiday tree lighting at the parking structure and depot plaza.  Mr. Brown moved to approve
in an amount not to exceed $107,340.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Discussion followed on lighting
that had been installed on 17  Street; the City’s concrete team and inspection oversight; holiday treeth
lighting at the downtown parking structure and depot plaza; past concrete issues on City projects,
and changes that have been made to the City’s construction standards.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Laybourn
provided clarification regarding his comments on the installation of electrical boxes at the base of
trees when the plaza and parking s tructure were built.  I n response to i nquiry, John Hall, City
Engineer, advised he was aware that research had been conducted regarding concrete problems on
the past Capitol Avenue project and that there had been no conclusive determination as to the reason
for concrete failure, and Mayor Kaysen noted the City does not have the equipment to reach the tree
height needed to provide for holiday lighting and that past vandalism of lights has also been a factor
relative to holiday lighting.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#6445)
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for epoxy striping (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
   
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Fire & Rescue Department,
and Plan 1 Architects for professional design services for emergency response facilities (2011 - 2015
1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County and Laramie County Community
Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for Juvenile Compliance and Diversion Officer services --
referred to Finance Committee. 
   
[CA] Land Exchange Agreement with Cheyenne Baptist Temple for a portion of East 23  Streetrd
in exchange for the dedication of an additional six feet of right-of-way for Pershing Boulevard --
referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and State of Wyoming Office of
Homeland Security for a grant in the amount of $98,000.00 for WyoLink compatible mobile radios
for the Police Department (U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Grant Programs Directorate, State Homeland Security Program, Grant Fiscal Year 2015) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 4 to Contract No. 3516 between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming
Association of Risk Management Property Insurance Joint Powers Board for an Amended and
Restated Joint Powers Agreement relating to property insurance.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#3516)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 6 to Cont ract No. 6115 betwee n the City of Cheyenne, Police
Department, and FCI Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, to increase the construction contingency and
Guaranteed Maximum Price for the Cheyenne Public Safety Center Project -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks &
Recreation Department, and RECCO, Inc., dba Five-R Company, for the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens
Project to increase the Guaranteed Maximum Price -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-13-16 for the surplus sale of bulk wood (revenue to the City).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Mountain Services, Cheyenne).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-15-16 one new 2015-2016 SUV and one new mid-size pickup for
the City of Cheyenne (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
bid from Spradley Barr Nissan, Laramie, WY, in an amount not to exceed $29,390.00, and the bid
from Spradley Barr Motors, Inc., Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $26,742.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-16-16 for two new 2015-2016 Steiner 440 tractor mowers (or equal)
for the Parks Division and for the Street & Alley Division (2011- 2014 1%  Sales Tax).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Stotz Equipment, Casper, WY, in an amount not to
exceed $51,128.80).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-19-16 for furnishing protective jacket and pants for structural fire
fighting for the City of Cheyenne, Fire & Rescue Department -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-17-16 for furnishing one new 2015-2016 compact skid loader for
the Street & Alley Division (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Appointments of Chuck West to Board of Adjustment; Craig E. Kerrigan and Lori Kempter-
Mansell to the Housing & Community Development Advisory Council; Marcene VanDerHaar and
Gary Sims to the Historic Preservation Board; Mark Gaskill to Mayor's Council for People with
Disabilities.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote
(Mayoral appointees).
 Re-Appointments of Mi chael R . O ’Donnell a nd Jo hn G . K nepper to  th e Boa rd of
Adjustment; Stephen M. Ganison, Carol Slane and Jared S. Olsen to the Housing & Community
Development Advisory Council.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees). 
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Nicole Novotny Smith to the City Planning
Commission, and Susan Garrett to the Housing & Community Development Advisory Council, to
be confirmed December 28, 2015.     
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Kurt A. Zunker to the F ire Civ il
Services Commission; Rita Watson to the Personnel Commission; Gene MacDonald to the City
Planning Commission; Brent Groesbeck and Joe Patterson to the Contractor Licensing Board, to be
confirmed December 28, 2015.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 28, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership for
a resort liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for 204 Fox Holdings, LLC d/b/a
Holiday Inn Cheyenne, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Hotel West I, LP d/b/a
Holiday Inn Cheyenne, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Under other business:
Pete Laybourn discussed the impact of the governing body’s decisions and responsibilities
regarding downtown projects, and his conce rns with the lack of  quality design and management
involving concrete work and alkali silica reactivity problems in the past.
Gabriel Pina commented on a recent parking citation he had received in the downtown area
and lack of signage to the public affiliated with violation wording on the citation.
Ms. Williams, stating there were concrete issues in her neighborhood, inquired about the
City’s engineering inspection procedures.  John Hall, City Engineer, explained the process involving
Engineering construction inspec tors’ oversight during concrete projects, noting that inspections
occur at different times depending on the project type and when certain processes are occurring, and
discussed staffing constraints; walk-thr oughs; warr anty periods, and the  prac tice of a voiding
piecemeal repairs, when possible, due to minor problems to maintain the i ntegrity of the initial
product.  Ms. Williams also questioned allowable vs. non-allowable information-type signage placed
in the public right-of-way with regard to a local funeral home sign, and noted her concerns with the
resolution introduced on the meeting agenda pertaining to the Neighborhood Traffic Management
Program (NTMP) relative to a proposed resolution she had submitted for attorney review, and the
agenda process.  Mr. Roybal confirmed he had agreed to sponsor the NTMP resolution for placement
on the agenda upon request by the Director of the Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO).
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  governing body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:50 p.m. 
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 December 26, 2015