MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2015-12-28 | CLIP_ID: 515 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 515

 R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
December 28, 2015
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, and Jeff White.  Absent: Annette Williams.  Also present: Kristy Anderson, Deputy
City Clerk, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Shanor recused himself from participation in voting due to any
appearance of influence on a Consent Agenda item involving the State Loan and Investment Board,
and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 23, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Mayor Kaysen opened a publi c hearing to receive comments and input for a tra nsfer of
ownership for a r esort liquor license  application filed w ith the Cit y Clerk's Office for 204 Fox
Holdings, LLC d/b/a Holiday Inn Cheyenne, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Hotel
West I, LP d/b/a Holiday Inn Cheyenne, Cheyenne, Wyoming). Jennifer Thayer, General Manager
and 204 Fox Holdings, LLC representative, noted the two additional dispensing rooms listed on the
application are no longer being utilized. Upon inquiry, Ms. Thayer advised only the one dispensing
room located within the Fire side Lounge is being  used.  Ther e being no further  comments and
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and referred the
item to Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b) of the Cheyennerd
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 5.1.5 for the purpose of increasing maximum
total lot coverage allowed in some  residential lot types.  Reporting for Public Services Committee,
Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook .  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting
“no”. (#4109)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b) of the  Cheyennerd
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Article 5, Zoning Regulations, Table 5-1, Districts
and Uses, contained in Section 5.1.4, and Section 5.7.3, Accessory Dwelling Units, for the purpose
of modifying the existing regulation of accessory dwelling units and to provide an expanded as-of-
right path after administrative review.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Mayor Kaysen voting “no”. (#4110)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - A mending Section 2.64.030, Definitions, and deletingrd
Section 2.64.090, Demolition Permit Review, and re-creating Section 2.64.090, Demolition Permit
and Moving Permit Review, of Chapter 2.64, Historic Preservation Board, of Title 2, Administration
and Personnel, of the City Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson . Mr. Shanor moved to amend by changing the
definition of Demo lition to read as f ollows: “Demolition” means the r emoval of a  building or
structure, or a portion thereof, or removing or destroying significant architectural elements of the
exterior of a building or structure.  Demolition does not include routine maintenance, simple repairs,
painting, cleaning or the replacement or repair of existing features using similar or like materials,”
seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon inquiry, it was advised the amendment was to provide a more specific
definition with parameters for the meaning of “demolition”.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#4111)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential-
Established to MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for the N½ of Lots 3 and 4; and Lot 2, Block
252, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of E. 21st
Street and Alexander Avenue).  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present with the
exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending Ordinance No. 4081, annexing to the City ofnd
Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of Tract 1, H and B  Tracts, situated in the NW¼ of Section 12,
T.13N., R.67W., 6  P.M.,  L aramie County , Wy oming, to be  known as Heiduck A dditionth
Annexation (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Southwest Drive and Interstate 80).
Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, parcels ofnd
land of approximately 8.86 acres of land situated in a portion of Dell Range Addition, Second Filing,
Tract 31, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge
Road and Summit Drive); and a portion of Summit Drive right-of-way, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located between Ridge Road and College Drive.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second reading
with staff condition #1, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, chan ging the zoning cla ssification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural
Residential to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential - High Density for a portion of Dell Range Addition,
Second Filing, Tract 31, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Summit Park (located at the southeast
corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and Summit Drive).  Mr. Shanor move d to approve on
second reading, seconded by Mr. J ohnson.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.
[CA] RESOLUTION - D esignating the Sundays during 2016 that annual liquor lice nsees may
extend dispensing room hours of operation for sales until 2:00 a.m. the following day. Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5735)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2016 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5736)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5737)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne supports the
application to be submitted by the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming,
to the State Loan and Investment Board for BFY 2015-2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant
Funding in the amount of $135,000 for the Town of Albin’s three projects (Community Center Gym,
Rodeo Arena Completion and Town Ve hicle Purchase). Motion (per  Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5738)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the  Ma yor a nd City  Cle rk to e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government Grant Agreement for attendance at the 2016 Saving
Places Conference.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5739)
RESOLUTION - Amending the Neighborhood Traffic Management Program (NTMP) - 2015
which was adopted by Resolution No. 5657.  Mr. Shanor moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.
Mr. Shanor moved to postpone to January 11, 2016, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon inquiry, it was
noted the postponement is to allow NTMP to come up with one proposal to submit combining two
current proposals.  Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present with the exception of Mr. Roybal voting “no”.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Summit
Park, a replat of a portion of Tract 31, Dell Range Addition, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and Summit Drive) -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting the Evers Boulevard Road Rehabilitation 35% Design Plan --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for epoxy striping (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax).  John Hall, City Engineer, advised
this is  a n o pportunity to p articipate in a n a nnual a greement w ith WYD OT’s st riping pr oject,
providing better pricing for the City.  He reviewed history on bid pricing and the standard WYDOT
agreement indirect cost allocation.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#6446)
   
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Fire & Rescue Department,
and Plan 1 Architects for professional design services for emergency response facilities (2011 - 2015
1% Sales Tax). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6447)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County and Laramie County Community
Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for Juvenile Compliance and Diversion Officer services.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $75,625.00; revenue to the City).
(#6448)
   
[CA] Land Exchange Agreement with Cheyenne Baptist Temple for a portion of East 23  Streetrd
in exchange for the dedica tion of an additional six  feet of right-of-way for Per shing Boulevard.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6449)   
 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and State of Wyoming Office of
Homeland Security for a grant in the amount of $98,000.00 for WyoLink compatible mobile radios
for the Police Department (U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Grant Programs Directorate, State Homeland Security Program, Grant Fiscal Year 2015).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6450)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 6 to Cont ract No. 6115 betwee n the City of Cheyenne, Police
Department, and FCI Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, to increase the construction contingency and
Guaranteed Maximum Price for the Cheyenne Public Safety Center Project.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6115) 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks &
Recreation Department, and RECCO, Inc., dba Five-R Company, for the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens
Project to increase the Guaranteed Maximum Price.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an
amount not to exceed $17,458.95). (#6219)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-19-16 for furnishing protective jacket and pants for structural fire
fighting for the City of Cheyenne, Fire & Rescue Department. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(accept the bid from CoPro EFP, Eastlake, CO, in an amount not to exceed $277,575.00).  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-17-16 for furnishing one new 2015-2016 compact skid loader for
the Street & Alley Division (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(accept the Bid from Bobcat of the Rockies, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $79,328.00).
[CA] Consideration of B id #S-10-16 for a  contra ct betw een the City of Chey enne, F orestry
Division, and Green Lawn and Tree Care, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for  cemetery tree removals
project -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office
for Scooter s Scoreboa rd, L LC d/b/a Scooters Scoreboa rd B ar, 50 7 E. L incolnway, Chey enne,
Wyoming (License currently held by Community Investments, Inc., 507 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne,
Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s
Office for Anong’s Thai Cuisine LLC d/b/a Anong’s Thai Cuisine, 620 Central Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (License currently held by  Anong and Brett Larson d/b/a Anong ’s Thai Cuisine, 620
Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Appointments of Nicole Novotny Smith to the City Planning Commission, and Susan Garrett
to the Housing & Community Development Advisory Council.    Mr. Roy bal moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
 Re-Appointments of Kurt A. Zunker to the Fire Civil Services Commission; Rita Watson to
the Personnel Commission; Gene MacDonald to the City Planning Commission; Brent Groesbeck
and Joe Patterson to the Contractor Licensing Board.   Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by
Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees). 
Announcement of Appointments of Michae l Beeman to the Per sonnel Commission,  and
Jamie Davis to the Police Civil Service Commission, to be confirmed January 11, 2016.     
Announcement of Re-Appointments of Randy Byers, Robert D. Clary and Michael Peel to
Building Code Board of Appeals; Blithe McAndrew, Martha Mullikin and Meg in B. Rux t o the
Historic Preservation Board, to be confirmed January 11, 2016.
Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held January 11, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council
Chambers, 2101 O’ Neil Avenue , Chey enne, Wyoming, to dete rmine whe ther c ompliance of
annexation conditions required by  Wyoming Statute §15-1- 402 exis t for Tra ct 318, Sunny side
Addition, 7  Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersectionth
of Polk Avenue and Rock Springs Street). 
There being  no further  busi ness to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:26 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Kristy B. Anderson, CMC 
 Deputy City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 5, 2016