MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-01-11 | CLIP_ID: 517 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 517

 R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
January 11, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan
White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
ELECTION OF CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENT FOR 2016.  Mayor Kaysen noted for the
record that, pursuant to City Code, he would be conducting the election for the office of City Council
President but would not be casting a vote, and advised nominations were in order. Dr. Rinne moved
to nominate and elect Mr. Cook as City Council President for 2016, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  There
being no further nominations, Mr. Shanor moved that nom inations cease, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote. Motion to n ominate and elect Mr. Cook carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.
ELECTION OF CITY COUNCIL VICE-PRESIDENT FOR 2016.  Mayor Kaysen noted for
the record that, pursuant to City Code, he would be conducting the election for the office of City
Council Vice-President but would not be casting a vote, and advised nominations were in order.  Dr.
Rinne moved to nominate and elect Mr. Shanor as City Council Vice-President for 2016, seconded
by Mr. Cook. There  bei ng no further nominations, Dr. Rinne moved tha t nominations cease,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.  Motion to nominate and elec t Mr. Shanor carried.
Voting “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body with the ex ception of Mr. B rown and Mr.
Johnson voting “no” and Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.
On behalf of the governing body, Mayor Kaysen recognized outgoing Council President Dr.
Rinne for his years of service as Council President for 2013, 2014 and 2015, and presented him with
an engraved gavel plaque.  Dr. Rinne expressed appreciation for being allowed to serve as Council
President, and thanked the Mayor, Council members, staff and the Council Office Administrative
Assistant Kris Jones for their assistance during his terms as president.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by
Ms. Williams and Mr. Shanor, agenda item #20 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Shanor
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 28, 2015.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor move d to approv e payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present in Council Chambers. Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.  
Mayor Kaysen opened a Public Hea ring to determine whether c ompliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for Tract 318, Sunnyside Addition, 7th
Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Polk
Avenue and Rock Springs Street).  Mike Tylka, Development Department, provided information on
the area proposed to be annexed, noting there was an affiliated zone change ordinance in conjunction
with annexation.  He stated requirements and compliance of annexation conditions contained in state
statutes had been met.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having
been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE -  3  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1, Zoning Ma p A mendments,rd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential-
Established to MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for the N½ of Lots 3 and 4; and Lot 2, Block
252, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of E. 21st
Street and Alexander Avenue).  Re porting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to
approve on third and final r eading, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Com ment followed in g eneral
opposition to the zone change due to concern with encroachment of businesses within residential
neighborhoods.  Upon inquiry, Mike Tylka, Development Department, clarified, if requested, the
property could revert back to a MR-1 residential zone at a later date.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne and Ms. Williams voting “no”.
(#4112)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending Ordinance No. 4081, annexing to the City ofrd
Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion of Tract 1, H and B  Tracts, situated in the NW¼ of Section 12,
T.13N., R.67W., 6  P.M.,  L aramie County, Wy oming, to be know n as He iduck Additionth
Annexation (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Southwest Drive and Interstate 80).
Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4113)  
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, parcels ofrd
land of approximately 8.86 acres of land situated in a portion of Dell Range Addition, Second Filing,
Tract 31, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge
Road and Summit Drive); and a portion of Summit Drive right-of-way, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located between Ridge Road and College Drive).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final
reading with staff condition #1, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. (#4114)
ORDINANCE -  3  R EADING -  P ursuant t o S ection 2 .2.1, Zoning M ap A mendments,rd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural
Residential to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential - High Density for a portion of Dell Range Addition,
Second Filing, Tract 31, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Summit Park (located at the southeast
corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and Summit Drive).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third
and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. (#4115)
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, Chapter 10.80,ST
Bicycles, of the Cheyenne City Code for the purpose of removing certain chapter sections relating
to bicycle licensing requirements -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Shanor). 
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Tract 318,ST
Sunnyside Addition, 7  Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of theth
intersection of Polk Avenue and Rock Spring s Street) --  referred to Pub lic Services Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County CB Community Business to
MR-2 M edium-Density R esidential-Developing fo r T ract 3 18, S unnyside A ddition, 7  Fi ling,th
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, to be known as PKT Subdivision (located at the northwest
corner of the intersection of Polk Avenue and Rock Springs Street) -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Pur suant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, chang ing the  zoning classific ation from LI  Light I ndustrial to HI  Hea vy
Industrial for L ot 2, Block 2, Campstool Addition, Third Filing , Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
between Trucker Trail and Venture  Drive, e ast of I ndustry Drive) -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
RESOLUTION - Amending the Neighborhood Traffic Management Program (NTMP) - 2015
which was adopted by Resolution No. 5657.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.
Mr. Cook moved to postpone to J anuary 25, 2016, seconded by Ms. Williams. It was advised the
NTMP has other considerations to be brought forward since the resolution was placed on the  agenda
and would be discussed further at a meeting scheduled for Friday, Jan. 15, 2016.  During discussion,
Dr. Rinne raised a point of order indicating comments being made were not relevant to the motion
to postpone.  Mayor Kaysen concurred and advised that statements should pertain to the motion on
the floor.  Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mr. Roybal voting “no”. 
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Summit
Park, a replat of a portion of Tract 31, Dell Range Addition, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and Summit Drive.  Mr. Cook
moved to adopt with staff conditions #1, 2, & 3, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Cook advised that
following the January 5, 2016 Public Services Committee meeting, it was brought to his attention
that a s ubstitute resolution was necessary to provide clarification in the “Now Therefore Be It
Resolved” clause.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated January 8, 2016, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Upon inquiry , Dan White, Cit y Attorney, revie wed the r easons f or the propose d
amendment, which is to remove a conditional clause that he advised was not necessary. Motion to
amend carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the governing body.  Main motion as amended
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5740)
 RESOLUTION - Adopting the Evers Boulevard Road Rehabilitation 35% Design Plan.   Mr.
Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Comments followed regarding concerns with the
proposed landscape strip down the center of Evers Blvd. and whether there is a maintenance plan
in place. Upon inquiry, John Hall, City Engineer, stated that moving forward with the project is
subject to availability of funding.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body.  (#5741)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropr iating the Fiscal Year 2016 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Master Rental Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Bergkamp Inc., for Flameless
Pothole Patcher and Truck (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-10-16 f or a c ontract betwee n the City  of Chey enne, F orestry
Division, and Green Lawn and Tree Care, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for  cemetery tree removals
project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid in an amount not to exceed $41,565.00).
(#6454)
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a resort liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office
for 204 Fox Holdings, LLC d/b/a Holiday Inn Cheyenne, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently
held by Hotel West I, LP d/b/a Holiday Inn Cheyenne, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Appointments of Michael Beeman to the Per sonnel Commission, and Jaime Davis to the
Police Civil Service Commission.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen
who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
Re-Appointments of Randy Byers, Robert D. Clary and Michael Peel to Building Code Board
of Appeals; Blithe McA ndrew, Martha Mullikin and Meg in B. Rux t o the Historic Prese rvation
Board.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointees).
Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King, J r. Holiday on Monday,
January 18, 2016, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the
Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance
Committee will meet Tuesday, January 19, 2016 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will
meet Wednesday, January 20, 2016 at Noon.
Under other business, B art Stolp ex pressed conce rns with the Metropolitan Planning
Organization (MPO) Policy Committee’s decision to reallocate funding for the Van Buren corridor
study to instead be utilized for an intersection study analysis at Dell Range Blvd. and Converse Ave.
Mayor Kaysen confirmed the MPO’s Policy Committee decision, explaining the De ll
Range/Converse intersection is the highest crash rated intersection in the City with the highest
volume of vehicles.  He advised the Van Buren study will be addressed at a later time when funding
is available.  Mr. Stolp commented on safety concerns on both Pinto Lane and Van Buren streets,
noting his obser vations involving saf ety issues on Van Buren.  He r eferenced a pe tition he had
previously submitted (in October 2014) signed by residents in the Va n Buren neighborhood and,
upon request, provided a copy of the petition and a Neighborhood Speed Watch Report Log he had
compiled using a radar speed gun provided by the Police Department.  Comments followed on the
growth of neighborhoods and issues with inc reased traffic through residential areas; p roposed
changes to the Neighborhood Traffic Management Program (NTMP), and the Neighborhood Speed
Watch Program.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen noted a NTMP meeting was scheduled for January
15th involving  certain Council me mbers and applicable City employees to wo rk o n proposed
changes, which will then be brought to the governing body and the public for review pursuant to the
current resolution on the agenda proposing changes to the NTMP.
Upon inquiry , Tom Mason, MP O Director, provided a n update on the Per shing B lvd.
Complete Street Plan, noting the pla n involves short term and long  term re commendations.  He
advised a request for funding the implementation of a crosswalk at Pershing and Duff is included
in the proposed Capital Improvement Projects plan that was recently presented to City Council.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:54  p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 23, 2016