MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-02-08 | CLIP_ID: 521 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 521

 R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
February 8, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Ji m Brown, Richard Johnson, Mi ke Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roy bal, Dicky
Shanor, Annette Williams and Jeff White.  Absent:  Bryan Cook.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer,
City Clerk, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Roybal and Mr. B rown, item #27 (d) was removed from the Consent Ag enda.  Mr . Shanor
recused himself from participating on action involving Consent Agenda items due to items pertaining
to the State L and and I nvestment Board, and va cated Council Chambers.  Upon re quest by Dr.
Rinne, and pursua nt to support rece ived by Mr. Roybal and Mr. Johnson, agenda item #16 wa s
removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items,
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
in C ouncil Ch ambers.  F ollowing a nnouncement o f the vote, M r. Sha nor r eturned to  Cou ncil
Chambers.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 25, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Mr. J ohnson.  Motion carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.  
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for the purpose of receiving comments and input to
determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402
exist for approximately 43,770 square feet of land situated in Lots 1 through 4, and those adjacent
portions of 16’ alley , Bloc k 1, Br aden H omesites, L aramie County , Wy oming ( located at the
northeast corner  of the interse ction of Gy sel Place a nd Dell Rang e B oulevard).  Seth L loyd,
Development Department, advised the proposed annexation is pursuant to a petition that had been
submitted; noted the property will go through a zone change and possibly a final plat process; briefly
reviewed the a rea to be anne xed, and sta ted that requirements and c ompliance of  annexation
conditions contained in state statutes had been met.  There being no further comments or input and
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE - 3rd READING - Amending Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, Chapter 10.80,
Bicycles, of the Cheyenne City Code for the purpose of removing certain chapter sections relating
to bicycle licensing requirements.  Major Dorr spoke regarding bicycle safety; bicyclists obeying
rules of the road and bicycle owner responsibility.  He requested the ordinance continue to remain
in effe ct and that e ach a pplicant for a  license r eceive a c opy of City Code (Chapter  10.80)
concerning op erating bic ycles w ithin t he City , a nd a  pa mphlet on  bic ycle safety.  D uring his
comments, Mr. Dorr submitted a copy of City Code Chapter 10.80 and a sample of the pamphlet he
had received from the Wyoming Department of Transportation (on file with City Clerk’s office).
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded
by Mr. L una.  Comment was made  conce rning bicy clists’ responsibility  inv olving sa fety and
compliance with laws, and using licensing fees collected per the current ordinance for bike path
costs.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “y es” - - all member s of the g overning bo dy prese nt with the
exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.  (#4116)
ORDINANCE - 3rd READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Tract 318,
Sunnyside Addition, 7  Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of theth
intersection of Polk Avenue and Rock Springs Street).  Reporting for Public Services Committee,
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4117)
ORDINANCE - 3rd READING - Pur suant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County CB Community Business to
MR-2 Medium-Density Residential-Developing for a portion of PKT Subdivision, within Tract 318,
Sunnyside Addition, 7  Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwestth
corner of the intersection of Polk Avenue and Rock Springs Street).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present. (#4118)
ORDINANCE - 3rd READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development C ode, c hanging th e zo ning c lassification f rom L I L ight I ndustrial t o H I H eavy
Industrial for L ot 2, Block 2, Campstool Addition, Third Filing , Cheyenne, Wyoming (located
between Trucker Trail and Venture Drive, east of Industry Drive).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present. (#4119)
ORDINANCE -  2n d RE ADING - A mending Se ction 2 .40.035(B), Tr affic Sc hool-
Administrative Fee, of Chapter 2.40, Municipal Court, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of
the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Ed Strader spoke in opposition to the fee inc rease,
commenting on  mun icipal c ourt a nd train er costs a nd e xpressing the  pr oposed f ee inc rease is
excessive.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr.  White
moved to amend by changing the proposed administrative fee from $25.00 to $40.00 with the fee
not to exceed $60.00, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Discussion followed on the intent o f t he
amendment, and consideration of a friendly amendment was offered to remove the “not to exceed
$60.00" clause from the amendment.  Pursuant to inquiry from Mr. Strader, it was advised that if the
fee were to be changed in the future, it would require governing body approval.  Mr. White, as maker
of the motion, accepted the friendly amendment and indicated his revised motion was to change the
current $25.00 administrative fe e to $40.00, and to eliminate lang uage regarding “not to exceed
$60.00”.  As second to the motion to amend, Ms. Wi lliams concurr ed. Discussion included:
Procedurally entertaining motions to amend an amendment as has been the practice of the governing
body; leaving latitude of determining when to increase the administrative fee to the municipal court
judge, and administrative fee only affecting violators who the cour t believes would be nefit from
traffic school attenda nce.  T he Honor able Ma rk Mora n, Municipal Court J udge, desc ribed
components and benefits of the traffic school program and advised that the program i s l abor
intensive to administer so that is the reason for requesting an increase in the administrative fee. He
noted it had been 11 years since the fee has been reviewed and the intent of requesting an amount
not to exceed $60.00 was to gradually increase the fee over time, beginning with an increase to
$40.00.  Judge Moran explained program costs to participants and that it is a voluntary option for
eligible individuals, and reviewed options to violators regarding payment of fines, appearing in court
or attending the program.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing
body present.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by changing the administrative fee to be in an amount
not to exceed $50.00 instead of $60.00, seconded by Mr. Brown.  Discussion included program fees;
ticket costs, and the program providing an incentive for people to attend by having a ticket dismissed
upon successful completion of the program.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown,
Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr.
White and Ms. Williams. Main mot ion as amended carried.  V oting “yes” -- Mr. B rown, Mr.
Johnson, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” --  Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr.
White and Ms. Williams voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - A mending Section 10.32.030, Dec reasing State SpeedST
Limits in Certain Zones, of Chapter 10.32, Speed Limits, of Title 10, Vehic le and Traffic, of the
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsors -- Mr.
Brown, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor).
 
RESOLUTION - Amending the Neighborhood Traffic Management Program (NTMP) - 2015
which was adopted by Resolution No. 5657.  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.
Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Pursuant to inquiry regarding
the substitute, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, clarified the resolution itself is not being amended and
that the substitute pertains to a propose d revision of the N TMP document af filiated with the
resolution.  Upon inquiry, Tom Mason, Director, Metropolitan Planning Organization, summarized
the proposed changes contained in the substitute NTMP document as a result of a meeting between
administrative staff and certain Council members.  He explained most of the changes were simple
edits and re viewed the main hig hlights that we re included in the substitute.  Moti on to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present.  Main motion as amended
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5743)  Under other business,
Jeff Dierksen, spoke in reference to the NTMP changes, noting he thought some of the changes were
an improvement but others were not.  He commented in opposition to the speed watch portion of the
program a nd expressed conc ern that  certain data c ollecting methods may  be misleading  and
suggested the governing body review this section further.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for PKT
Subdivision, a replat of Tract 318, Sunnyside Addition, 7  Filing; and Lot 2, Sunnyside Meadows,th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Polk Avenue and Rock
Springs Street).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5744)
RESOLUTION - Adopting the Dell Range/Prairie Avenue/Section 20 Corridor Study.  Dr.
Rinne moved to adopt, seconde d by Mr. Roy bal.  I nquiry followed re garding the ra tionale of
narrowing lanes from four to two lanes on Prairie Avenue, and installing a roundabout at Prairie and
Frontier Mall Drive instead of utilizing traffic signals and the cost difference.  Darci Hendon, Ayres
Associates, explained that Prairie Avenue projected future traffic volumes doesn’t justify a four lane
street and that even with future projected growth, only one lane in each direction is necessary. She
noted that rounda bouts keep tra ffic moving, not sto pping at signals.  J ohn Hall, City  Engineer,
advised the estimated cost of traffic signals would be approximately $250,000 - $300,000 dollars
where as the roundabout would cost approximately $2 million.  He noted a roundabout may qualify
for federal funding through the Metropolitan Planning Organization process to help with the cost,
and stated a roundabout is a better long term solution.  Comment was made that Melton Street should
“go all the way  through”.  Motion car ried.  Vot ing “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#5745)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting the Lincolnway Placemaking: Downtown Pedestrian and Urban
Design Plan.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5746)
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the Traffic Signal Project.
 Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5747)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Mineral Royalty Capital Construction Account
Grant (Chapter 3) application to the State Loan and Investment Board for the Lions Park Restroom
Remodel Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5748)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Prioritizing the Cit y of Cheyenne’s two 2016 applications for Mine ral
Royalty Capital Construction Grants.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5749)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting  the Wy oming Assoc iation of Municipalities’ L egislative
Agenda and the Association’s efforts in seeking appropriation of State funding for all 99 Wyoming
Cities a nd T owns d uring th e 2 016 B udget S ession o f th e Wyoming Legislature.  M otion ( per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5750)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of Fiscal Year 2013-2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding in the amount of $2,201.37
for the Stone Trash Receptacles Project for the Town of Pine Bluffs -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of Fiscal Year 2015-2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding in the amount of $107,618
for a replacement loader for the Town of Pine Bluffs -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor --
Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2016 budget of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Kemp Subdivision, a replat of Tr acts 14-16, F oster Tracts, Laramie County, Wyoming (located
between Pershing Boulevard and Archies Road east of Foster Drive) -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] County Preliminary Plat for Woods Landing Estates, all of the SE¼ of Section 14, T.14N.,
R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Whitney Road, north
of Beckle Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Holmes Corner, a replat of Lot 2, Block 2, Atkins Addition; and all the
remaining portions of Block 1, Holmes Addition, First Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
southeast corner of the intersection of E. Pershing Blvd. and Ridge Road) -- referred to Public
Services Committee.
[CA] Purchase and Installation Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and OfficeScapes, for
the supply and installation of interior furnishings for the Cheyenne Public Safety Center (1% Specific
Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$47,858.87). (#6455)
[CA] Purchase and Installation Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Elements, for the
supply and installation of interior furnishings for the Cheyenne Public Safety Center (1% Specific
Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$362,965.60). (#6456)
[CA] Construction Manager A t Ris k A greement b etween th e City  of  Che yenne a nd F CI
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, for the Additions and Renovations to the Waste Transfer Station
Project (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) carried (a mount not to ex ceed
$888,131.00).  (#6457)
Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and WJE, LLC, to outline
responsibilities for the donation of land and for the construction and management of a multi-purpose
non-motorized pedestrian and bicycle pathway, park and landscape amenities in a portion of Saddle
Ridge, 8  Filing (Community Facilities and Fees).  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr.th
Luna.  Upon inquiry regarding using MOU’s as a standard operating procedure where developers
are swapping land in lieu of park fees, Rick Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation, explained that
the developer will pay the fees and reimbursement would be made when certain provisions are met
as outlined in the MOU.  He noted the MOU was in conjunction with the Final Plat and a condition
of approval of the plat required the MOU to come before the governing body.  Discussion followed
on amenities and improvements to be provided by the developer.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City
Attorney, explained the reason for deeding the land is to change ownership to the City, but under
MOU provisions the developer is to make certain improvements to qualify for fee reimbursement.
He advised some of the improve ments will be on priv ately owned land; pr ovided information
specific to certain sections of the MOU, and stated that any future modification to the MOU, if
needed, would come before the governing body.  Further discussion followed on the determination
of the valuation of the land vs. park fees, and City and developer responsibilities.  During discussion,
Mr. Parish provided information regarding determination of land value and components involved,
and MOU areas that had been negotiated between City staff and the developer.  Motion to approve
carried. Voting “yes”  -- all members of the governing body present. (#6458)
Second Amendment to City Contract No. 4913, Wind Park Easement Agreement, between
the City of Cheyenne and Happy Jack Windpower, LLC, granting the option to extend the term of
the easement and increasing fees during the extended term for wind generation facilities at the Happy
Jack Landfill property.  Mayor Kaysen advised that the parties involved have mutually requested the
item be withd rawn from the a genda.  U pon query to Cit y Council members, and the re being no
objection voiced, Mayor Kaysen announced the item was being withdrawn from the agenda.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-20-16 for furnishing six (6) new 2015 - 2016 Ford Utility Police
Interceptors, and four (4) new 2015 - 2016 four door Ford Sedan Police Interceptors for the City of
Cheyenne, Police Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.   
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, February 22, 2016  at 6:00
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for renewal applications
for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, and
microbrewery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.
Announcement was made that due to the Presidents’ Day Holiday on Monday, February 15,
2016, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the Municipal
Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee
will meet Tuesday , February 16, 2016 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Service s Committee will meet
Wednesday, February 17, 2016 at Noon.
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Will Harden a nd Gabriel J. Pina to the
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority, to be confirmed February 22, 2016. 
There being no further  b usiness to come before the g overning body,  the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:28 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 February 18, 2016