MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-02-22 | CLIP_ID: 523 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 523

 R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
February 22, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Annette Williams and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan
White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Cook moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 8, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen, Lois Huff, City Treasurer, and Brandon Cammarata, Development
Director, provided information available on vouchers payable to the following: Altitude Recycling
Equipment, LLC (baling wire for compressing recyclable materials); Art Payroll (contract labor to
assist with Civic Center productions); Ayers Associates, Inc. (contract for environmental services
for the West Edge project); Aztec Construction Company, Inc. (demolition of existing billboards on
Swan Ranch Industrial Park); Chick-Fil-A and Sam’s Club (food purchases for concession stand at
Ice & Events Center).  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a public hea ring to  receive comments and input for r enewal
applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill
licenses, and microbrewery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk,
noted that included with the renewal applications are six licenses in “parked” status, and that six
current licensees did not file for renewal for the upcoming year.  Mayor Kaysen advised Chief Brian
Kozak, Police Department, was unable to be present at the meeting to review the department’s report
on compliance checks conducted throughout 2015 and that Chief Kozak would provide a report at
the March 7th Finance Committee meeting.  He further advised that Chief Kozak had indicated there
were no department issues that would affect license renewals.  There being no further comments and
purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the
applications to Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE -  3r d RE ADING - A mending Se ction 2 .40.035(B), T raffic Sc hool-
Administrative Fee, of Chapter 2.40, Municipal Court, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of
the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mark Moran, Senior Municipal Court
Judge, advised the purpose of amending the fee is to recover program costs, noting the current fee
of $25.00 has not been increased for 10 years.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#4120)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Am ending Section 10.32.030, Decr easing State Speednd
Limits in Certain Zones, of Chapter 10.32, Speed Limits, of Title 10, Vehic le and Traffic, of the
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Bart Stolp questioned whether the proposed amendment
would affect Van Buren Avenue and Pinto Lane.  Mayor Kaysen advised a traffic analysis will be
conducted generally throughout the City .  Reporting  for Public Service s Committee, Dr. Rinne
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  I t was noted the ordinance, if
approved, wi ll a mend the  c urrent 2 5 mp h s peed li mit in r esidential zon es to 30 mph to  be  in
compliance with state statutes which requires a speed study before the limit could be changed.  Upon
inquiry, Mayor Kaysen clarified when City Code was changed in 2004 to implement the 25 mph
speed limit the City did not conduct the necessary speed study as required and advised this ordinance
will place the City in compliance until the necessary studies can be done.  Discussion topics included
the following: 2004 ordinance change; necessary traffic study per state law; current speed limit
signage at entry points into the City; what constitutes a legal speed study; enforcement; streets that
will be involved in the speed study (collector, arterial and Central Business District); speed studies
that have been conducted for portions of Pershing Blvd., Van Buren and Pinto Lane, and compliance
with state statute.  John Hall, City Engineer, provided information on the upcoming speed control
study that will involve certain streets; study requirements per state statute and state rules; changing
of current entry signage into the City from 25 to 30 mph; anticipated time frame (approximately six
months) in which to conduct the speed study; difference between design speeds as referenced in the
Unified Development Code vs. spee d limits, and statutory speed limits for school zones.  Upon
inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, provided information on the 30 mph speed limit established by
state statute and speed limit enforcement generally.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of Fiscal Year 2013-2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding in the amount of $2,201.37
for the Stone Trash Receptacles Project for the Town of Pine Bluffs.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5751)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award
of Fiscal Year 2015-2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding in the amount of $107,618
for a replacement loader f or the Town of  Pine Bluff s.  Motion (per Consent  Agenda) carried.
(#5752)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re -appropriating the Fisc al Year 2016 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5753)

[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Kemp Subdivision, a replat of Tr acts 14-16, F oster Tracts, Laramie County, Wyoming (located
between Pershing Boulevard and Archies Road east of Foster Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5754)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the City  of Ch eyenne to a pprove a nd file the Wy oming
Division of Victim Services Funding Application State Fiscal Year 2017 and 2018, July 1, 2016 to
June 30, 2018 -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd City  Cle rk t o e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation O ffice Ce rtified Local G overnment (C LG) grant a greement f or the  20 16 Hi storic
Cheyenne Facade Improvement Program -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor a nd City  Cle rk to e xecute a Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Offic e Certifie d L ocal Gove rnment (CLG) g rant a greement for a  survey  of the
Downtown Historic District -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A cknowledging receipt of the “ 2016 Downtown Cheyenne Core Plan”
presented by the Downtown Development Authority of the City of Cheyenne and referring said plan
to the City of Cheyenne Planning Commission -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsors --
Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal).
[CA] County Preliminary Plat for Woods Landing Estates, all of the SE¼ of Section 14, T.14N.,
R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Whitney Road, north
of Beckle Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (acknowledge the Planning Commission’s
recommendation to approve).
 Preliminary Plat for Holmes Corner, a replat of Lot 2, Block 2, Atkins Addition; and all the
remaining portions of Block 1, Holmes Addition, First Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
southeast corner of the intersection of E. Pershing Blvd. and Ridge Road).  Dr. Rinne moved to
acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve with conditions #1, 2 and 3,
seconded by  Mr. Roy bal.  Dr. Rinne moved to a mend by  removing Planning Commi ssion’s
conditions #1, 2 and 3, and replacing them with staff conditions # 2 and 3 as referenced in the 2-11-
16 City staff memorandum, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, City of Cheyenne Board of
Public Utilities and McGee, Hearne and Paiz, LLC, to audit the annual financial statements of the
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Umpires Association to provide
umpire services for the 2016, 2017 and 2018 City  league softball sea sons -- re ferred to F inance
Committee. 
[CA] Addendum No. 3 to City Contract No. 2985 to allow the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -
Laramie County, State of Wyoming Joint Powers Board to sublease with AT&T for the installation
of a telecommunications facility (cellular tower), and to sublease with Verizon Wireless for the
installation of two ce llular antennas within the Ex hibition Hall, all to be located on the lea sed
premises known as Frontier Park -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to City Contract No. 5696 to extend the contract term for an additional
five year period to allow the Laramie County School District No. 1 to continue the lease of a parcel
of real property located at Cosgriff Court, Talbot Court and I-25 in Pioneer Park, City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-20-16 for furnishing six (6) new 2015 - 2016 Ford Utility Police
Interceptors, and four (4) new 2015 - 2016 four door Ford Sedan Police Interceptors for the City of
Cheyenne, Police Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(accept bid from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $262,778.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-12-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and JTL Group, Inc, d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Fiscal Year 2016
City Overlay Part 1 Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-13-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Fiscal Year 2016 City Overlay
Part 2 Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointments of Will Hardin and Gabriel J. Pina to the Cheyenne Downtown Development
Authority.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral
appointees). 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 14, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenu e, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a bar & grill liquor license
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for S & S Wyoming, LLC d/b/a The Suite Bistro, 1901
Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 14, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership for a
resort liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Astride A Starship, LLC d/b/a
The Plains Hotel, 1600 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by The Plains
Hotel Company, LLC d/b/a The Plains Hotel, 1600 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 14, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a resort liquor license application
filed with the City Clerk’s Office for JPK TR Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Cheyenne Staybridge Suites
Hotel, 5109 Frontier Mall Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 14, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Ch ambers, 2 101 O ’NeiI Av enue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, f or a  restaurant l iquor lic ense
application filed with the Cit y Clerk’s Office for Vreeland\Mazza, LLC d/b/a Godfather’s Pizza,
5719 Yellowstone Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made  of the Re- Appointment of W illiam C. Beaman to the City  of
Cheyenne, Wyoming - Laramie County, State of Wyoming Joint Powers Board for Frontier Park
Improvements, to be confirmed March 14, 2016.
Under other business:
Bart Stolp, referenced  a January 16, 2016 newspaper article and commented on neighbors’
traffic and pedestrian safety concerns, noting his observations involving safety issues on Van Buren
Avenue near a school crosswalk.  Upon inquiry, John Hall, City Engineer, provided information on
improvements and installation costs, and noted more sidewalk work is planned after the current
school year.  Mr. Stolp expressed his disagreement with results of a speed study conducted by the
City in the vicinity and stated drivers’ compliance with the speed limit is evident only when there
is a visible police presence.
Jeff Dierksen commented on recent adoption of the revised Neighborhood Traff ic
Management Program (NTMP) and his concerns with elimination of the Neighborhood Traffic
Committee and speed watch portion of the program and changes in eligibility criteria and the point
system.  H e proposed presentations be provided by the Metropolitan Pl anning Organization to
members of the governing body to explain the program and program aspects that have been changed.
Upon inquiry to Mayor Kaysen regarding answers to past questions posed by Mr. Dierksen, Mayor
Kaysen reported he was still working on response information.
Ms. Williams referenced action taken at the February 8, 2016 City Council meeting regarding
adoption of a resolution for the Traffic Signal Project on Walterscheid and Fox Farm and 5  St. andth
Deming Drive.  It was noted the resolution authorized submittal of a Mineral R oyalty Capital
Construction Account g rant funding application to the S tate Loan and Investment Board for the
project and that SLIB has not yet met to review the application.
There being n o further business to come befor e the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:15 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 March 3, 2016