MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-03-28 | CLIP_ID: 526 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 526

 R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
March 28, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Annette Williams and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan
White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.  Mr. Cook moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 14, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to
Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis
to CB  Community Business for all of Lot 1, Block 3, Plaza Dell Range, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located between Dell Range Boulevard and Sheridan Street, west of Ridge Road).  Reporting for
Public Services Committ ee, Dr. Rinne moved to appr ove on sec ond reading, seconded by Mr.
Roybal.  Comment followed on City maintenance responsibilities involving drainage easement areas
dedicated to the City , and whe ther access is planned fr om Sheridan Ave nue.  Mike Ty lka,
Development Department, confirmed the drainage easement reflected on the zoning map has already
been dedicated to the C ity, and Mayor Kaysen noted access areas to the parcel would be a topic
affiliated with the site plan, when submitted, and not the zone change ordinance.  It was noted that
pursuant to discussion at the Public Services Committ ee meeting, proposed a ccess to Sheridan
Avenue would involve construction of a bridge, which is cost prohibitive to the developer.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to MUB Mixed-Use
Business Emphasis for all of Block 349, Original City, except the north 1/2 of Lot 1, Block 349,
Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of West 17th
Street and Reed Avenue).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Comment was made in support of planned improvements to the area.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Pur suant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, chang ing the zoning classification from CB Community  Business to MUB
Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for Lots 7 and 8, Bloc k 396, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located west of and adjacent to Reed Avenue, between West Lincolnway and West 17th Street)).
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b), of the CheyenneST
Unified De velopment Code (UD C), amending  Article 6, Sec tion 6.6.3(b)3 , for the pur pose of
providing alternate compliance for design features of multi-dwelling buildings -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
ORDINANCE - 1  READI NG - Repe aling Section 9.16.030, M inors on Premises ofST
Billiard or Pool Hall, of Chapter 9.16, Offenses by or Against Minors, of Title 9, Public Peace and
Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsors -- Dr. Rinne and Mr. Johnson).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Section 6.08.020, Keeping or Slaughtering ofST
Certain Animals - Restric tions W ithin the Ci ty, of C hapter 6.08, Animal Care a nd Control
Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, of the Code of the  City of Chey enne, Wyoming --
referred to Committee of the Whole (sponsors -- Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2016 budg et of the Cit y of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5759)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Country Homes Subdivision 4  Filing, a replat of Lot 3, Block 1, Country Homes Subdivision 3th rd
Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Cedar Avenue and Peach Street, south of Grape
Street).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  Under other business and pursuant to inquiry, Mayor
Kaysen explained the governing body has authority to approve County final plats within a certain
distance from City limits and annexation of the property is not required. (#5760)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Chey enne Police D epartment to apply for Wy oming
Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program, grant funding for the City’s Mobile D.U.I.
Command Post -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Surface Tra nsportation Urba n Prog ram Subrec ipient Agreement betwe en the City  of
Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Wyoming Department of Transportation for the Prairie Avenue/Frontier
Mall Drive Project  (Federal Funds, 2015 - 2018 1 % Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#6481)
[CA] Contract between the City of C heyenne, San itation D ivision, a nd Cl ean Harbors
Environmental Services, Inc. for hazardous waste disposal services at the Cheyenne Household
Hazardous Waste Facility (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not
to exceed $200,000.00). (#6482)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization
and Traffic Research and Analysis, Inc. for Traffic Signal Turning Movement Counts (Metropolitan
Planning Or ganization Funds).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$40,896.00). (#6483)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, Laramie County, Wyoming
and L aramie Cou nty She riff’s De partment f or ho using City  pr isoners a t th e Laramie Cou nty
Detention Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6484) 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Laramie County,
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6485)
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing b etween the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 to provide transportation services for the
City’s Summer Recreation Camp Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6486)
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to City Contract No. 6454 betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Forestry
Division, and Green Lawn and Tree Care, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming for an additional ten (10) trees
to be removed for the cemetery tree removal project to be completed by April 15, 2016 (Cemetery
Tree Removal Project).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $8,150.00).
(#6454)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contra ct No. 6 301 b etween t he C ity o f Cheyenne,
Engineering Department, and Reiman Corporation for the 19  Street Rehabilitation, Phase I Projectth
(2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, BOPU Funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 2 to Cont ract No. 600 0 between the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and AVI Professional Corporation for additional construction management
services for the Logan Avenue Reconstruction Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-21-16 for furnishing one new 2015 - 2016 cab and chassis, 4x4
truck fo r the Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department (Homeland Security Grant).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, WY, in an amount
not to exceed $56,850.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-14-16 for a  contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corporation and Subsidiary, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the West Lincolnway
Streetscape, Phase 2 Rebid Landscape and Irrigation Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Bar & grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for S & S Wyoming,
LLC d/b/a The Suite Bistro, 1901 Centra l Avenue, Che yenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per  Consent
Agenda) carried.
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a resort liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office
for Astride A Starship, LLC d/b/a The Plains Hotel, 1600 Central Ave nue, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(License currently held by The Plains Hotel C ompany, LLC d/b/a The Plains Hotel, 1600 Central
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Resort liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for JPK TR Cheyenne, LLC
d/b/a Cheyenne Staybridge Suites Hotel, 5109 Frontier Mall Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Vreeland/Mazza,
LLC d/b/a Godfather’s Pizza, 5719 Yellowstone Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
[CA] Consideration of single source purchase from Wireless Advanced Communications, Evans,
Colorado, fo r Consolettes and MCD5000' s Motorola Radios for the Chey enne Fire and Rescue
Department (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed
$93,690.00).
Following inquiry concerning a Consent Agenda item (re: Resolution for County Final Plat)
and there being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 6:12 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 April 7, 2016