MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-04-11 | CLIP_ID: 529 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 529

 R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
April 11, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Annette Williams and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan
White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda. Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 28, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Service s) and va cated Council Chambers.  Mr. Shanor moved  to approve payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,RD
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis
to CB  Community Business for all of Lot 1, Block 3, Plaza Dell Range, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located between Dell Range Boulevard and Sheridan Street, west of Ridge Road).  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4122)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,RD
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to MUB Mixed-Use
Business Emphasis for all of Block 349, Original City, except the north 1/2 of L ot 1, Block 349,
Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of West 17th
Street and Reed Avenue).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4123)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,RD
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, chang ing the zoning classification from CB Community  Business to MUB
Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for Lots 7 and 8, Bloc k 396, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located west of and adjacent to Reed Avenue, between West Lincolnway and West 17th Street)).
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4124)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1(b), of the CheyenneND
Unified De velopment Code (UD C), amending  Article 6, Sec tion 6.6.3(b)3, for the  purpose of
providing alternate compliance for design features of multi-dwelling buildings.  Jean Vetter, High
Plains Design, expressed support for the originally proposed amendment to the UDC on the topic
of alternate compliance involving primary materials and landscaping and not the ordinance version
as placed on th e agenda, and discussed positive ame nities involving landscaping options.  She
referenced a letter she ha d previously submitted to the g overning body and noted the pr oposed
change would affect residential multi-family housing and not commercial buildings.  Commenting
in opposition to the proposed ordinance and in favor of retaining the current UDC provisions were
Don J ones with Harold F. Johnson Masonry , and Carl Scha del, Gene ral Shale B rick.  Topics
discussed included the  benef its of brick/masonry  and quality  design.  Jim W oods, Hea rtland
Homebuilders, and Tom Jacobson, local real estate agent, spoke in favor of the proposed ordinance,
commenting on affordable housing and offering builders a choice.  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty
Group, stated his belief that the proposed ordinance provides the governing body with an opportunity
to fix a current problem with the UDC and will help contain builder costs.  Dr. Rinne reported there
was no recommendation on the item from Public Services Committee.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Discussion followe d on builder costs vs. profit and
costs passed on to renters or buyers; purpose of the amendment being proposed at this time; lack of
affordable housing in the community; economic growth; private property rights; upcoming multi-
dwelling construction projects, and estimated number of projects (i.e. building permits) that may be
affected by the proposed ordinance.  During discussion and upon inquiry, Ms. Vetter, Mr. Woods,
Mr. Jacobson and Brandon Cammarata, Development Director, provided information in response
to the inquiries.  Motion failed (due to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna,
Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal, Mr. White, Ms. Williams and
Mayor Kaysen.
ORDINANCE - 2  READI NG - Repe aling Section 9.16.030, Minors on Premises ofND
Billiard or Pool Hall, of Chapter 9.16, Offenses by or Against Minors, of Title 9, Public Peace and
Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Roy bal.  Mr. Johnson advised, upon inquiry , that the stipulation (i.e.
minors prohibited in pool halls) has been removed from state statute and the ordinance will remove
the requirement from City Code.  Motion carr ied.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body. 
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending Section 6.08.020, Keeping or Slaughtering ofND
Certain Animals - Restrictions Wit hin the City , of Chapter  6.08, Animal Care a nd Control
Regulations Ge nerally, o f T itle 6 , An imals, o f t he Code o f t he C ity o f C heyenne, W yoming.
Expressing op position to t he ordinance w ere:  K urt B uchammer a nd Da ve Re ed.  Com ments
included the following topics: Chickens constituting a nuisance; property rights; health risks and
concerns; allergy to feathers by some individuals; predatory animals attracted to chickens; concern
with effect on neighboring property values; banning of backyard chickens in other U.S. cities, and
costs to capture or control abandoned chickens.  Major Dorr questioned whether a permit would be
required and how complaints would be addressed.  Speaking in favor of the ordinance were: Wesley
Frain, Luke Salsgiver, Amy Spieker, Devin Henry, Carol Stearns, Katie Bryan, Gabriel Pina, Callie
Hurst, Tiffany Healey, Elizabeth Marshall, Christine Johnson, George Moser and Callie Shelton.
Topics discussed include d: Eg gs as a f resh a nd healthy food sourc e; re sponsibility of chic ken
owners; permission by neighbor(s) requirement; individual and property rights; other scenarios (ex:
dogs, rabbits) that could be  considere d a nuisance; educating  and communica ting with the
community on benefits of backyard chickens; ability to revisit the ordinance at a later date if needed;
benefits of chickens in g eneral; curr ent ordinanc e re striction on slaug htering or butche ring of
chickens wi thin th e City , a nd fi nancial in vestment, re lative t o o wner r esponsibility, b y tho se
interested in implementing a backyard chicken environment.  B oyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty
Group, referenced an email he had sent to governing body members and expressed his concerns with
the way the ordinance is written, incl uding textual issues; allowable zones, and pr edator control
measures and neighbor recourse.  Catherine Wissner, Laramie County Extension Office, offered to
provide training through Extension Office services on how to raise and keep chickens and being a
good neighbor, and to help mitigate problems or concerns.  Reporting for Committee of the Whole,
Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Chief Brian
Kozak, Police Department, provided information on services that would be provided by the Nuisance
Code Enforcement Officer relative to complaints that may be received.  Discussion followed and
included the following topics: Limitation of 5 chickens per property; other portions of City Code
restricting the sale of chickens under a certain age and the quantity that can be sold; responsible
party(s); permit vs. an honor system; chicken coop size; requirement for annual permission from
adjacent property owners, including any adult residents residing in accessory buildings upon the
property proposed for backyard chickens; scenario of receiving permission from an adjacent property
owner(s) and, at a later date, a new adjacent property owner perhaps not providing continuing
permission; provision that chickens can not be killed at the direction of the owner or keeper except
pursuant to lawful order of state or county health officials, or as determined by a veterinarian, and
differences in lot sizes per zoning and neighborhoods.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend the ordinance
as follows, seconded by Mr. Brown: Add the following sentence at the end of Section 6.08.020 (D)
(3) “ ... No coop shall have an enclosed floor space exceeding sixty (60) square feet, and no portion
of any coop or pen shall exceed a height of seven feet from the ground surface at any point.”; add
the following sentence at the end of the first paragraph under Section 6.08.020 (D)(10) “ ... All lot
owners and adult residents’ consent shall be effective and subject to revocation in the same manner
as described in Sub-section 10.a.; and strike the current wording in Section 6.08.020 (D) (10) (a) and
insert the following new language “ ... No chickens may be kept on an eligible lot unless the owners
and all adult residents of adjacent lots consent in writing.  The consent of an adjacent owner or an
adult resident shall be irrevocable for a period of one year from the date consent is given in writing.
After the expiration of one y ear, an adja cent owne r or a dult resident may  revoke consent by
providing a written notice of revocation to the record owner of the eligible lot and to any person
keeping chickens on the eligible lot that was the subject of the original consent.  Upon receiving
written notice of the revocation of consent from any adjacent owner or adult resident, the owners and
occupants of the eligible lot shall have sixty (60) days to remove all chickens.”  Discussion followed
regarding communication with neighbors and fairness issues relative to zoning and a 60 day grace
period in which to remove chickens, if necessary.  Pursuant to inquiries from Amy Fagan and Ms.
Shelton, information was provided r egarding consent re quirements by adjac ent neig hbors, and
clarification was made that alleys will not be considered to be adjacent properties for the purposes
of the required consent.
Following a  15  minute recess, Ma yor Ka ysen r econvened th e me eting a t 8: 20 p. m.
Discussion continued on the proposed amendment and included adjacent property owner permission
and chicken owner responsibility to maintain permissi on records, and the pe nalty provision for
violations.  M otion to a mend c arried.  V oting “ yes” - - a ll m embers o f t he g overning b ody.
Discussion on the main motion as amended followed.  Topics included: Enforcement procedures;
adjacent neighbor permissions; potential costs involved for response, enforcement and sheltering of
abandoned or unconfined chickens; possible further amendments on third reading of the ordinance;
property values; property covenants, and whether a permit should be required.  During discussion
Chief Kozak advised that, based on information he had received, the Animal Shelter was not overly
concerned with housing and affiliated costs of abandoned or unconfined chickens that are captured.
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal,
Mr. Shanor, Ms. Williams and Mr. White.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook and Mayor Kaysen.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lots 1-4,ST
Block 1, Braden Homesites, and the adjacent 16’ alley, and the adjacent portion of Gysel Place right
of way, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Dell Range
Boulevard and Gysel Place) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne). 
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultral Residential to
MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for Lots 1-4, Block 1, Braden Homesites, and the adjacent 16’
alley, C heyenne, W yoming (located at  t he n ortheast co rner o f t he i ntersection o f D ell R ange
Boulevard and Gysel Place) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the Chey enne Police D epartment to apply  for Wy oming
Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program, grant funding for the City’s Mobile D.U.I.
Command Post.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5761)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Acknowledging receipt of the City of Cheyenne Capital Improvement Plan
dated April 1, 2016 and directing the Mayor and City staff to provide the Governing Body with
annual updates of the Capital Improvement Plan -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr.
Brown and Mr. Shanor). 
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle
Ridge, 9  Filing, a replat of Lots 8-41, Block 2, Saddle Ridge, 7  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyomingth th
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Whitney Road and US Highway 30) -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Long View Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Tract 6, Mesa Tracts, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located south of and adjacent to US Highway 30, east of Christensen Road) -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization
and Ki mley-Horn a nd As sociates f or the Cheyenne Do wntown St rategic Pa rking Pla n ( MPO
Planning Funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Contract No. 6301 between the City  of Cheyenne,
Engineering Department, and Reiman Corporation for the 19  Street Rehabilitation, Phase I Project.th
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $10,000.00). (#6301)
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No.  2 to Contract No. 6000 betwe en the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering Department, and AVI Professional Corporation for additional construction management
services for the  Logan Avenue Reconstruction Project.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried
(amount not to exceed $21,336.00). (#6000) 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 4 Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Recco, Inc., dba Five-R Company, for the Botanic Gardens Expansion
and Renovation to furnish and install tile (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 5 Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne,  Parks and
Recreation and Rec co, I nc., dba F ive-R Company , for the B otanic Gardens Expansion and
Renovation; credit for reducing cast stone size, refund will be used for additional lighting, cost
associated with RFI #25 and RFI #11 and supplementary hydronic piping for the greenhouse system
(1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-14-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, a nd Re iman Co rporation a nd Sub sidiary, Ch eyenne, Wy oming, fo r the Wes t
Lincolnway Streetscape, Phase 2 Rebid L andscape and Irrigation Project.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $386,839.00). (#6491)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-24-16 for furnishing approximately 89 new desktop computers and
operating systems for the City  of Chey enne, Information Technology Division, pursuant to the
City’s replacement program  (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-25-16 for annual purchase of  hot mix, tack oil and cold mix for
the Street and Alley Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-26-16 for annual purchase of furnishing aggregate for the Street
and Alley Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration o f Bid # S-16-16 f or a  c ontract be tween th e City of  Che yenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Depa rtment, and Construction Specialists, I nc., Chey enne, Wy oming, for the
renovations to Lions Park Restroom project (Park Projects) -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-22-16 for furnishing one new 2016 twin screw diesel-powered cab
and chassis for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management) -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, April 25, 2016 at 6:00
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the City  of
Cheyenne Annual Action Plan 2016 - 2017, City of Cheyenne Community Development Block
Grant (CDBG) entitlement. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 25, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership for a
restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Twin Dragon Chinese
Food LLC, d/b/a Twin Dragon, 1809 Carey Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held
by Twin Dra gon Chinese Restaura nt, Inc. d/b/a Twin Dr agon, 1809 Carey  Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 25, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, Municipal B uilding, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive
comments and input on the “2016 Downtown Cheyenne Core Plan” as proposed by the Downtown
Development Authority of the City of Cheyenne. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 25, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue , Chey enne, Wy oming, to rece ive public comment
regarding the intent of the City of Cheyenne to submit an application to the Wyoming Business
Council’s B usiness R eady Com munity, D owntown De velopment Grant Pr ogram, t o a ssist i n
funding the Downtown SkyPath Parking Garage Connector Project.
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 25, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Ave nue, Chey enne, Wy oming, to re ceive public comment
regarding the intent of the City of Cheyenne to submit an application to the Wyoming Business
Council’s Business R eady Com munity, Downtown Development Grant P rogram,  t o assist i n
funding the Hynds Building Facade Improvement Project.
  Announcement was mad e of the Re-Appointment of Gale L. Shenefelt to the May or’s
Council for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed April 25, 2016.
Under other business, Ms. Williams provided information on the Day of Giving event which
will be held May 12 and 13, 2016 at the Kiwanis Community House.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:47 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 April 23, 2016