MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-04-25 | CLIP_ID: 531 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 531

 R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
April 25, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Annette Williams and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan
White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Shanor and Mr. Roybal, item #20(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  M r. Shanor
moved to approve  remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by  Mr. Cook.  Motion carrie d.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on April 11, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers
as pre sented, sec onded by  Mr. Shanor.  Moti on car ried.  Voting  “y es” - - all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Ka ysen opened a Public Hearing to receive comments and input for the City of
Cheyenne Annual Action Plan 2016 - 2017, City of Cheyenne Community Development Block Grant
(CDBG) entitlement.  Deanne Widauf, Housing and Community Development Office, provided a
brief overview of the history  and purpose  of the CDB G program, noting the City  has re ceived
entitlement grant funds since 1975.  She advised the proposed pla n is consistent with the 5 y ear
Comprehensive Consolidated Plan completed in 2015, and stated the anticipated allocation funding
amount is $397,441.00 with anticipated program income of $1,000.00 and $135,578.00 in recaptured
funding.  Ms Widauf explained the grant application process, public notifications and opportunities
for input, and role of the Advisory Council in reviewing and recommending projects to be funded.
She stated 13 projects are proposed under the categories of public services and general services, and
noted fund ing for program administration.  She re viewed the projects and funding  amounts as
recommended by the Advisory Council.  There being no further comments and input, and purpose
of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a Public Hearing to rec eive comments and input for a tra nsfer of
ownership for a restaurant liquor license filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Twin Dragon Chinese
Food LLC, d/b/a Twin Dragon, 1809 Carey Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held
by Twin Dra gon Chinese Restaura nt, Inc. d/b/a Twin Drag on, 1809 Carey  Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming).  Don Christianson, representative for applicant,  advised he was available to respond to
any questions.  There being no comments or input, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred
the application to the Finance Committee.
Mayor Ka ysen opene d a Public Hea ring to rec eive c omments and input on the “2016
Downtown Cheyenne Core Plan” as proposed by the Downtown Development Authority of the City
of Chey enne.  D arren Rudloff, Visit Chey enne, a nd Amy  Su rdam, Chey enne D owntown
Development Authority, provided information on the development of the Core Plan.  They advised
proposed projects affiliated with the plan are focused within a six block area around the Depot Plaza,
and referred to as the downtown “core”; that the action plan provides for a short list of projects at
relatively low cost, and noted f inancial a ssistance for  some of t he projects will be available.
Appreciation was expressed for the economic development partners that were involved in developing
the plan.  There being no further comments or input, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a Public Hearing to receive comments and input regarding the intent
of the City of Cheyenne to s ubmit an application to the Wyoming Business Council’s Business
Ready Community, Downtown Development Grant Program, to assist in funding the D owntown
SkyPath Parking Garage Connector Project.  Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager, explained the intent
of the grant and use of the funds, if received, for a raised walkway from the Jack R. Spiker Parking
Structure to Capitol Avenue (Carey Avenue and through alley) to connect with the Hynds Building
to promote economic development.  The walkway will be a public facility and will have connections
available to adjacent businesses at the business owner’s expense.  She advised a developer of the
Hynds Building h as a  te nant i nterested in  oc cupying the  bu ilding a nd the  a pplication is  in
conjunction with their request for the SkyPath to provide parking access, and noted the project will
have a positive effect on the development of the Hynds Building, which has been largely vacant for
30 years, and the downtown.  She stated this is a cooperative project between the DDA, Cheyenne
LEADS, Chamber of Commerce, Visit Cheyenne and the Hynds Building project developer and the
potential tenant.  Ms. Schneider stated the project is estimated to cost $2.5 million dollars and that
the maximum grant request under the pr ogram is $2.0 million dol lars.  She fur ther advised the
application is due May 15, 2016 and will be considered by the Wyoming Business Council in
September.  Anja Bendel, Director of Development, Cheyenne LEADS, advised that representatives
from all four economic development organizations were present and in support of the project. She
explained the proposed SkyPath is incorporated into the Downtown Core Plan and stated the project
is important for re development of the Hynds Building, the alley way behind it and all prope rties
along the block by providing parking access.  Upon inquiry as to the source of funding for the City’s
grant match ($450,000.00), Mayor Kaysen explained deter mination of where  the funding  match
would come from would be by the governing body.  There being no further comments or input,
Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Public Hearing to receive public comment regarding the intent of the City of Cheyenne to
submit an application to the Wyoming Business Council’s Business Ready Community, Downtown
Development Grant Program,  to assist in funding the Hynds Building Facade Improvement Project.
Mayor Kaysen advised the application for this project was being postponed, therefore, there was no
longer a purpose to conduct the public hearing and announced the hearing was cancelled.
ORDINANCE - 3  READI NG - Repe aling Section 9.16.030, Minors on Premises ofRD
Billiard or Pool Hall, of Chapter 9.16, Offenses by or Against Minors, of Title 9, Public Peace and
Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services Committee,
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4125)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending Section 6.08.020, Keeping or Slaughtering ofRD
Certain Animals - Restric tions W ithin the Ci ty, of Chapter  6.08, Anim al Care and Control
Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Julie
Gliem, Cheyenne Landlords Association, commented on concerns with the ordinance relative to
landlords and tenants and restrictive use of property; scenarios involving special service animals;
abandoned or deceased chickens and responsible parties, and advised that landlords in general aren’t
in support of the ordinance.  Speaking in support of the ordinance generally were: Victoria Fry,
Rebecca Pike, Landon Brown, Lisa Glauner, Lucy Pauley, Jessica Fehlberg and Lindsay Simineo.
Topics discussed we re: Cities that curr ently allow bac kyard chickens; future de velopment and
promoting a progressive image of Cheyenne; benefits of chickens and value of locally raised food;
concern with acquiring permission from adjacent property owners; public support for the ordinance
through local media polls, and therapeutic animals.  Major Dorr spoke in opposition to the ordinance,
commenting on or dinance require ments and conc erns involving  adjac ent prope rty owner
permissions, proce dures a nd rec ords, and the or dinance potentially  cre ating a neig hborhood
“friendship” problem.  During her comments, Ms. Pauley stated she was prepared to donate a coop
to the Cheyenne Animal Shelter, if needed, relative to concerns expressed with abandoned chickens
being housed at the Shelter.  Catherine Wissner, UW Laramie County Extension Office, reiterated
her offer made at the April 11  City Council meeting regarding community education classes onth
chicken care and owner responsibility.  Upon inquiry from Wesley Frain, Dan White, City Attorney,
advised the ordinance will require permission from adjacent land owners and applicable tenants.
Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  U pon inquiry, Ms. Gliem explained that a lot of Cheyenne property
owners do not reside locally; that  land owners may be different than structural property owners, and,
in some case s, owners ma y be deceased.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by  substitut e ordinance,
seconded by M r. Sh anor.  M r. Sh anor a nd M r. Ro ybal p rovided in formation o n th e c hanges
contained in the proposed substitute.  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, spoke in support of
the proposed amendment. Comment was made on the change of increasing the number of allowable
hens to si x and future consideration of amending a section of City Code involving qua ntities of
animals that can be purchased.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson,
Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White.  V oting “no” -- Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Ms.
Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Discussion on the main motion as amended followed and included
the following topics: Property tenant and owner approvals; covenants vs. ordinances; neighborhood
conflicts; responsibility of chicken owners; progressive communities; communities that allow urban
chickens; ordinance effect on Cheyenne Animal Shelter; investment of owning chickens; training
offered and potential neighborhood conflicts.  Upon inquiry during discussion, Ms. Gliem provided
information on landlord issues, and Robert Fecht, Cheyenne Animal Shelter, stated his belief that
the ordinance will result in an impact of some kind to the Shelter but what that impact may be is
unknown at this time, and that they are counting on citizens who wish to raise chickens to be
responsible.  During discussion, Mr. Shanor raised a point of order stating a general question asked
of the  a udience fo r r esponse wa s ina ppropriate wi th M ayor Ka ysen c oncurring, s tating his
interpretation that the inquiry was more of a statement and not a question requiring response.  Main
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr.
Shanor and Mr. White.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Ms Wi lliams and Mayor Kaysen.
(#4126)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lots 1-4,ND
Block 1, Braden Homesites, and the adjacent 16’ alley, and the adjacent portion of Gysel Place right
of way, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Dell Range
Boulevard and Gysel Place).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading with staff
recommendations #1, 2, 3 and 4, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ND
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultral Residential to
MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for Lots 1-4, Block 1, Braden Homesites, and the adjacent 16’
alley, C heyenne, W yoming (l ocated at  t he n ortheast co rner o f t he i ntersection o f Dell R ange
Boulevard and Gysel Place).  Dr. Rinne moved to appr ove on second r eading, seconded by Mr.
Shanor.  Discussion followed on the Planning Commission’s recommendation vs. staff’ s
recommendation, and concern with allowing business development to encroach into residential areas.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook
and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
 
ORDINANCE - 1  READI NG - A mending the City  of Chey enne’s Solid Waste Fe eST
Schedule -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending various Sections of Chapter 9.24, Weapons, ofST
Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Johnson).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Acknowledging receipt of the City of Cheyenne Capital Improvement Plan
dated April 1, 20 16 and directing the Mayor and City staff to provide the Governing Body with
annual updates of the Capital Improvement Plan.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5762)
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle
Ridge, 9  Filing, a re plat of L ots 8-41, Bloc k 2, Saddle Ridge , 7  Filing, Cheyenne, Wyomingth th
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Whitney Road and US Highway 30).  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5763)
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Long View Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Tract 6, Mesa Tracts, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located south of and adjacent to US Highway 30, east of Christensen Road).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5764)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plan 2016-2017, prepared
by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsors -- Mr. Brown, Ms. Williams).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the addition of nine (9) structures and removal of twelve (12)
structures in the Capitol North Historic District from the contributing structures list maintained by
the City’s Planning Office -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A dopting the ‘ 2016 Downtown Chey enne Core Plan’  presented by the
Downtown Development Authority of the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
Professional Services Agreement between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization
and Ki mley-Horn a nd As sociates f or the  Chey enne Do wntown St rategic Pa rking Pla n ( MPO
Planning Funds).  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr.
Luna.  Upon inquiry, Sreyoshi Chakraborti, Metropolitan Planning  Office, provided information
relative to public eng agement assistanc e; targ et audienc e and sc ope of w ork to be provide d;
estimated time lines for the project and the study area, which will be the downtown core area, and
noted the  la st d owntown pa rking stu dy was c onducted in  19 91.  D iscussion in cluded p ossible
parking permits for r esidents in the dow ntown area; definition of the term “ default”; MPO staff
project monitoring, and resulting consultant recommendations that may involve short and long term
implementation time frames.  Upon inquiry, Dan White, City Attorney, explained the definition of
“default” in relation to notice and re medy language contained in the ag reement.  Motion carr ied
(amount not to exceed $85,535.00).  V oting “yes” all members of the g overning body with the
exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#6493)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for School Resour ce O fficers for summer  school 2016 -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City  of C heyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wy oming, for
limited  use of the public right-of-way for the installation of fiber optics and setting a fee (Revenue
to the City) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Jodie A. Wagner, for crime victim assistance services (Victim Services Grant) -- referred to Finance
Committee.  
[CA] Professional S ervices Agr eement b etween t he C ity o f C heyenne a nd DH M De sign
Corporation  for the West Edge Civic Center Commons Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use
Tax, F ederal E mergency Ma nagement A gency Gr ant, Sta te Lands & I nvestment B oard Gr ant,
Wyoming Business Council Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] User Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recr eation Department, and
Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, to host the 2016 - 2018 seasons at the City-owned
Ice and Events Center -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Media Sales Ag ency Agreement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, for Static Visual Advertising at the
City-owned Ice and Events Center -- referred to Finance Committee. 
Contract Modification No. 4 Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Recco, Inc., dba Five-R Company, for the Botanic Gardens Expansion
and Renovation to furnish and install tile.  Rick Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation, provided
information on the tile to be installed in restrooms; explained o riginal cost saving measures and
advised the Friends of the Botanic Gardens raised the funds for the project and 6  penny sales taxth
funds were not involved.  Mr. B rown reported there was no rec ommendation on the item from
Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#6219) 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 5 Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne,  Parks and
Recreation and R ecco, I nc., dba F ive-R Company , for the B otanic Ga rdens Expansion and
Renovation; credit for reducing cast stone size, refund will be used for additional lighting, cost
associated with RFI #25 and RFI #11 and supplementary hydronic piping for the greenhouse system
(1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6219)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Cont ract No. 6314 betwee n the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Fiscal Year 2015 City
Overlay, Part 1 Project to re duce retainage (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Ta x) -- referred to Fina nce
Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modific ation No. 1 to Contract No. 6177 be tween the City of Chey enne and
Reiman Corporation for  partial re lease of the ret ainage for the L ogan Avenue Reconstruction
Project  (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Con tract No. 6053 between the City  of Chey enne, and
Pappas & Pappas Architects, P.C., to provide for additional architectural and engineering services
for the Cheyenne Public Safety Center (1% Specific P urpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-24-16 for furnishing approximately 89 new desktop computers and
operating systems for the City  of Chey enne, Information Technology Division, pursuant to the
City’s replacement program  (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried
(accepted bid from Counter Trade Products, Arvada, CO, in an amount not to exceed $49,827.87).
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-25-16 for annual purchase of  hot mix, tack oil and cold mix for
the Street and Alley Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(accepted bid from JTL Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River, in an amount not to exceed $273,700.00).
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-26-16 for annual purchase of furnishing aggregate for the Street
and Alley Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted
bid from JTL Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River, in an amount not to exceed $97,580.00).
[CA] Consideration of B id #S-16-16 for a  contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Depar tment, and Construction Specialists, I nc., Chey enne, Wy oming, f or the
renovations to Lions Park Restroom Project (Park Projects).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $218,700.00). (#6494)
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-22-16 for furnishing one new 2016 twin screw diesel-powered cab
and chassis for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, in an amount not
to exceed $128,977.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-27-16 for furnishing ammunition for the City’s Police Department
-- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-5-16 for a contract between the  City  of  Che yenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Department, and Reiman Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Highlands Park
project (Land and Water Grant, Community Facilities Fees)  -- referred to Finance Committee.
  Re-Appointment of Gale L. Shenefelt to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities.
Mr. Cook moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Williams .  M otion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral
appointee).  
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne
at the J une 10 , 2016 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Business Meeting -- referred to
Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Elizabeth Lance to the Laramie County
Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board, to be confirmed May 9, 2016.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 9, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Ch ambers, 2 101 O ’Neil A venue, Ch eyenne, Wy oming, f or a  mi crobrewery pe rmit
application filed with the City Clerk's Office for WRCH Accomplice, LLC d/b/a Accomplice Beer
Co., 115 W. 15  Street, Suite 1, Cheyenne, Wyoming.th
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 9, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a restaurant liquor license
application filed with the City Clerk's Office for WRCH Accomplice, LLC d/b/a Accomplice Beer
Co., 115 W. 15  Street, Suite 1, Cheyenne, Wyoming.th
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 9, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership and
transfer of location for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Sam’s
West, Inc. d/b/a Sam’s Club, 1948 Dell Range, Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently
held by Cloud 9, Inc. d/b/a Cloud 9 Liquorland, 1958 Dell Range Boulevard, Suite C, Cheyenne,
Wyoming).
Under other business:
Gabriel Pena discussed existing downtown parking ordinances, parking issues and the need
to study downtown parking and review ordinances affecting the downtown area, stating that signage
doesn’t exist in certain areas and tickets shouldn’t be issued in areas where individuals aren’t aware
of the parking time limitation restrictions. 
Mr. Johnson advised Council members, as well as those in attendance at the meeting, were
invited to attend suicidal and in-crisis intervention training offered by Grace for 2 Brothers on May
4, 2016 from 5:30 to 8:00 p.m. at St. Paul’s Lutheran Church.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:54 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 May 6, 2016