MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-05-09 | CLIP_ID: 533 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 533

 R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
May 9, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Jeff White
and Annette Williams.  Absent: Jim Brown and Dicky Shanor. Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City
Clerk, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Luna, and pursuant to support received by Ms.
Williams and Mr. Cook,  item #27(c) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna  moved to
approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on April 25, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a microbrewery
permit application filed with the City Clerk's Office for WRCH Accomplice, LLC d/b/a Accomplice
Beer Co., 115 W. 15  Street, Suite 1 , Cheyenne, Wyoming.  The re being no c omments and theth
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and referred the
application to Finance Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for WRCH Accomplice, LLC d/b/a Accomplice
Beer Co., 115 W. 15  Street, Suite 1, Chey enne, Wyoming.  The re being no c omments and theth
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and referred the
application to Finance Committee.
Public Hearing for a transfer of ownership and transfer of location for a retail liquor license
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Sam’s West, Inc. d/b/a Sam’s Club, 1948 Dell
Range Boulevard (license currently held by Cloud 9, Inc. d/b/a Cloud 9 Liquorland, 1958 Dell Range
Boulevard, Suite C, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Randy Reed, attorney with Drey, Dyekman, Reed and
Healey law firm, noted a previous application filed by Sam’s West last fall that was not approved
to receive an available retail license at that time, and stated the current application involves Sam’s
West negotiations to acquire a current retail liquor license (i.e. Cloud 9 Liquorland) in operation
adjacent to Sam’s Club property in Cheyenne.  Mr. Reed spoke in support of the application and
provided information on compliance with statutory public hearing criteria; Sam’s Club co-existence
with liquor licensees in other Wyoming communities; one-stop services for Club members to include
alcohol and malt beverage products; proposed 1,800 sq. ft. footprint and security measures for the
sales area; requests by Club members for alcohol/malt beverage products; tax revenue impact for the
City, and Sam’s Club experience d staff a nd alcohol trai ning program in plac e.  Cody  Nelson,
General Manager, Sam’s Club, Cheyenne, commented in support of the application and reviewed
the plan for the liquor store loca tion within the existing Sam’s Club building and noted they are
looking to provide convenience for customers.  He explained security measures that will provide
assurance that no underage person will have access to the liquor store; expressed his belief that there
will be minimal impact to other licensees if Sam’s were to receive the license, and discussed hours
of operation; regional composition of Club memberships and Sam’s community involvement as a
business as well as by employees.  Caleb Perkins, Club Manager, Sam’s Club, Casper, spoke in
support of the application and discussed aspects of the Sam’s Club alcohol/malt beverage sales at
the Casper store, noting his observation that there has been no significant impact to other liquor
licensees si nce th e Casper s tore a cquired a  liq uor l icense; on e-stop sh opping c onvenience to
customers; compliance and security criteria, and employee training.  Deborah Herrin, Director of
Public Affairs and Relations, Sam’s Club, distributed a fact sheet (on file with City Clerk’s office);
expressed that Sam’s Club will provide responsible stewardship as a licensee, and advised the Club
will be paying the same prices as other liquor licensees do to acquire alcohol products through the
Wyoming Liquor Division.  Tom Kingham, current owner of Cloud 9 Liquorland, provided a brief
history of his business operation and his decision to approach Sam’s Club regarding interest in
acquiring the license he holds; reviewed customer traffic patterns he has noticed to/from Sam’s Club
and oth er Wy oming mun icipalities th at ha ve pa ckage sto res w ithin or a djacent t o
grocery/convenience stores, and spoke in support of the transfer application.  Pursuant to inquiry,
Mr. Nelson provided information on estimated sales tax revenue that would be generated through
approval of the license .  Boy d Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, e ncouraged approval of the
transfer, commenting on statutory provisions involving liquor licenses and Sam’s Club as an existing
business with a broad customer base, and expressed his belief that the liquor licensing system is
“broken”.  Speaking in opposition to transfer of the license and location were:  Gabriel Piña; Kevin
Georges, DT liquor store owner and local liquor dealers association; Eddie Georges; John O’Grady,
Peppermill Bar and Liquor owner, and Jan Nelson-Schroll.  Topics discussed included:  Only Sam’s
Club members will have availability to purchase alcohol and malt beverage products; concerns with
a liquor license being held by a “big box” outlet; licenses as an economic development tool; state
law restricting liquor licenses based on population; current licensee vs. Sam’s Club sales tax revenue
and local vs. non-local licensees.  Pursuant to inquiries and comments by members of City Council,
Mr. Reed, Mr. Kingham, Ms. Herrin and Mr. Nelson provided information on transferring of liquor
licenses requiring governing body approval; contact with Sam’s Club by Mr. Kingham relative to
an interest in acquiring his license, and other revenues generated by Sam’s Club and Wal-mart to the
community, other than sales tax, through property taxes, employees as consumers and two Wal-mart
stores plus the distribution center operations, and Sam’s Club “being there for small businesses.”
Upon inq uiry, Ca rol I ntlekofer, City  Cl erk, advised th ere a re c urrently fi ve liq uor l icenses in
“parked” status.  There being no further comments and the purpose of the hearing having been met,
Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.

ORDINANCE - 3rd READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lots 1-4,
Block 1, Braden Homesites, and the adjacent 16’ alley, and the adjacent portion of Gysel Place right
of way, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Dell Range
Boulevard and Gysel Place).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present. (#4127)
ORDINANCE - 3rd READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultral Residential to
MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for Lots 1-4, Block 1, Braden Homesites, and the adjacent 16’
alley, C heyenne, W yoming (l ocated at  t he n ortheast co rner o f t he i ntersection o f D ell R ange
Boulevard and Gysel Place).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by
Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of  Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  (#4128)
 
ORDINANCE - 2  READI NG - A mending the City  of Cheyenne’s Soli d Waste Fe end
Schedule.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna advised there was no recommendation on
the item from Finance Committee.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.
Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Mr. Luna and Ms. Williams voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending various Sections of Chapter 9.24, Weapons, ofnd
Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne moved
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry regarding the rationale of
legalizing certain weapons, Councilman Johnson, sponsor of the ordinance, noted he had worked
with the Police Department Chief to clean up portions of City Code, which conflict with state law,
and to address areas involving types of weapons that no longer needed to be restricted by City Code.
Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, advised the original intent of the ordinance was to revise
municipal code wording not consistent with state law in the carr ying of a concealed weapon, and
commented that there are some weapons that are currently prohibited by Code which are no longer
seen to be a problem (i.e. brass knucks, black jacks, switch blades).  He further stated current Code
is silent on the use of ar chery with in City limit s and this ordinance  will provide g uidance for
residents  with safety restrictions in place.  He explained there are indoor firing ranges within the
City limits and the ordinance will now allow those ra nges.  Upon inquiry , Chief Kozak advised
school resource officers (police officers) have advised him that they don’t encounter such items as
switchblades and knucks in school environments, and that the school has its own policy regarding
weapons on their property with regard to any disciplinary measures.  It was noted that pursuant to
discussion on the ordinance  at the Public Service s Committee, a pr oposed amendment may be
forthcoming at the next Committee meeting.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Approving and establishing revised water and sewer rates,ST
tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and septic and
commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, WyomingST
for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount
of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation all for the
Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2016 and ending June 30, 2017 -- referred to Committee of the Whole
(sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Section 9.12.070, Spitting on Sidewalks, FloorsST
of Public Buildings or Conveyances, of Chapter 9.12, Offenses Against Property, of Title 9, Public
Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Johnson).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business and MUB
Mixed-Use Business Emphasis to CB Communi ty Business f or Lots 1-2 and 7-12, B lock One,
Holmes Corner, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge
Road and E. Pershing Boulevard) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential-
Established to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential - High Density for the N½ of Lots 1 and 2, Block
76, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. 27th
Street and Evans Avenue) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plan 2016-2017, prepared
by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office .  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#5765)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the addition of nine (9) structures and removal of twelve (12)
structures in the Capitol North Historic District from the contributing structures list maintained by
the City’s Planning Office.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5766)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A dopting the ‘ 2016 Downtown Cheyenne Core Plan’ prese nted by the
Downtown Development Authority of the City of Cheyenne.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5767)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Program Grant, the purpose of assisting
in providing match the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit
Program, as authorized by  49 U.S.C. §5311  -- referred to Financ e Committ ee (sponsor -- Mr .
Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - A pproving the  Ti tle VI  Pr ogram f or the  Che yenne Transit Pr ogram,
Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropr iating the Fiscal Year 2016 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle Ridge,
10th Filing, a replat of Lots 13 and 22-39, Block 9, Saddle Ridge, 8th Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located west of a nd adjacent to Farthing Road, between Three Hearts and Wilderness Trails) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne). 
[CA] RESOLUTION -Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle Ridge,
11th Filing, a replat of all of Lots 17-43, Block 7, Saddle Ridge, 8th Filing, Cheyenne Wyoming
(located at the southwest corner of the junction of Three Hearts and Red Feather Trails, north of E.
Pershing Boulevard) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION -Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Woods Landing E states, t he S E¼ o f S ection 1 4, T.14N., R.66W., 6 th P .M., Laramie C ounty,
Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Whitney Road, north of Dell Range Boulevard) -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION -Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business Council
under the Business Rea dy Community Grant and L oan Program for a Downtown Development
Project on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne for assistance in funding the Jack
R. Spiker Downtown Parking Structure SkyPath Connector Project --  referred to Finance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for School Resource Officers for summer school 2016.   Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#6496)
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wy oming, for
limited  use of the public right-of-way for the installation of fiber optics and setting a fee (Revenue
to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6497)
Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and
Jodie A. Wagner, for c rime victim assistance se rvices (Victim Service s Grant).  May or Kaysen
advised staff has requested the agreement be withdrawn for consideration.  Upon query by Mayor
Kaysen and no objections being voiced by Council members present, Mayor Kaysen announced the
item was being withdrawn from the agenda.
[CA] Professional S ervices Agr eement b etween t he C ity of Cheyenne a nd DH M De sign
Corporation  for the West Edge Civic Center Commons Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use
Tax, F ederal E mergency Ma nagement Ag ency Grant, Sta te Lands &  Investment B oard Gr ant,
Wyoming Business Council Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed
$754,937.00). (#6498)
[CA] User Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Parks and Recr eation Department, and
Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, to host the 2016 - 2018 seasons at the City-owned
Ice and Events Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6499)
[CA] Media Sales Ag ency Ag reement betwee n th e City of Chey enne, Par ks and Recr eation
Department, and Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, for Static Visual Advertising at the
City-owned Ice and Events Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6500)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Tourism Promotion
Joint Powers Board, d/b/a Laramie County Convention and Visitors Bureau and Visit Cheyenne, for
the distribution of Lodging Tax Revenues to the City of Cheyenne in the amount of $74,889.00 --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 6314 betwee n the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for Fiscal Year 2015 City
Overlay, Part 1 Project to re duce retainage (2011 -  2014 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6314)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6177 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman
Corporation for partial release of the retainage for the Logan Avenue Reconstruction Project  (2011 -
2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6177)
Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6053 between the City of Cheyenne, and Pappas
& Pappas Architects, P.C., to provide for additional architectural and engineering services for the
Cheyenne Public Safety Center (1%  Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  M r. Luna moved to
approve in a n amount not to exceed $101,323.00, seconded by Mr. Cook.  M r. Luna moved to
postpone to May 23, 2016, seconded by Ms. Williams.  It was noted postponement will allow for
additional time for City staff and the architects to discuss uncertainties involved in additional work
that occurred and associated costs.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the
governing body present.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6457 between City of Cheyenne, Public Works
Department and FCI Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, to establish the Guaranteed Maximum Price
(GMP) for the Waste Transfer Station Additions and Renovations Project (Solid Waste Fund, 1%
Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-27-16 for furnishing ammunition for the City’s Police Department.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Ultramax Ammunition, Rapid City, SD,
in an amount not to exceed $40,659.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-5-16 for a contract between t he C ity of C heyenne, P arks &
Recreation Department, and Reiman Corpor ation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Hig hlands Park
project (Land and Water Grant, Community Facilities Fees).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $122,115.00). (#6501)
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-28-16 for furnishing police car equipment for new police vehicles
for the Cheyenne Police Department (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax, Miscellaneous Federal Funds) --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-17-16 for a C ontract between the Ci ty o f Cheyenne, 1%
Construction Division, and Sim on Contractors, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Current Year 2016
Miscellaneous Concrete Project (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-29-16 for furnishing miscellaneous Cisco computer hardware for
the new Public Safety Center from Vology, Inc., Oldsmar, Florida  (1% Specific Purpose Sales &
Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-15-16, for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Mechanical Systems, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Dry Creek Crossing at
Campstool Road Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a restaurant liquor license filed with the City Clerk’s Office for
Twin Dragon Chinese Food, LLC d/b/a Twin Dragon, 1809 Carey Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(License currently held by Twin Dragon Chinese Restaurant, Inc. d/b/a Twin Dragon, 1809 Carey
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
  Appointment of Elizabeth Lance to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint
Powers Board.   Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote
(Mayoral appointee).  
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at
the June 10, 2016 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Business Meeting.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (Mayor Richard L. Kaysen, Official Voting Delegate; City Clerk, Carol Intlekofer,
Alternate Delegate).
           Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 23, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership for a
retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Flippers, LLC d/b/a Flippers,
1617 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming  (License currently held by Cheyenne Club, Inc., 1617
Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 23, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance
of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for the N½ of Lot 9, Block
2, Parsons Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and a djacent to Pierce Avenue,
south of Laramie Street).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 23, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to  receive public comment on a
proposed sale of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, being Tract 2, Hildreth Subdivision,
located generally north of Polo Ranch Road, in Section 16, T. 14 N., R. 67 W., consisting of five (5)
acres, more or less, and having an appraised value of $62,500.00, to the United States of America,
for and on behalf of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to be used for the establishment of a
Veterans’ Cemetery.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 23, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to discuss route changes and a fare
increase for services provided by the Cheyenne Transit Program. 
Mayor Kaysen noted there were four additional items being introduced as agenda items, due
to timeliness involved, and, following the reading of each of the following entitlements by the City
Clerk, referred the items to Finance Committee:
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses owned
by the Laramie County School District No. One to be use d and operated for public transportation
services during the 2016 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for United
States Department of the Air Force owned land located at  F.E. Warren Air Force Base to be used
and operated as a parking lot for public transportation services during the 2016 Cheyenne Frontier
Days celebration.
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., and Laramie County School District No. One for buses owned by the Laramie County School
District No. One to be used and operated for public transportation services during the 2016 Cheyenne
Frontier Days celebration. 
Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities during
the 2016 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration. 
Under other business:
Major Dorr expressed his concern with a recent article in the local newspaper written by Mr.
Johnson, stating he  felt the a rticle wa s disrespec tful to c o-Council members, a nd offe red a
recommendation that a public apology be offered to co-Council members.
Ms. Williams posed the following question to the City Attorney: If an ordinance is written
by a Council member and is still in draft, not final, form and it is shared with a member of the news
media before ordinance sponsors have been finalized and prior to the ordinance being placed on the
agenda, is this a conflict and are there any ramifications toward whomever shared the draft with the
media?  Following clarification of the request by Mayor Kaysen, Dan White, City Attorney, stated
he received communication from Ms. Williams over the weekend with regard to her inquiry but had
not yet completed his research on the topic, and offered to discuss the matter with her once he has
completed his research.  Brief discussion followed on a recent incident involving the topic resulting
in public reaction and feedback based upon a draft document made available by a media outlet for
public viewing, and public input involving proposed agenda topics.
Mr.  Johnson encouraged City Council members and the public to attend the Day of Giving
event on May 13, 2016 at the Kiwanis Community House and donate bone marrow. 
Chief B rian K ozak, Pol ice De partment, tha nked me mbers of  City Cou ncil, the  Cou nty
Commissioners and the community for their support in building the new Public Safety Center and
noted an open house would be held May 12 and May 13 from 12:00 to 8:00 p.m. for the public to
tour the new building.  Mayor Kaysen expressed appreciation for the opportunity to revitalize the
building site through the use of the 6  Penny Sales Tax.th
There being  no furth er business t o come be fore the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:39 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 May 21 , 2016