MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-05-23 | CLIP_ID: 534 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 534

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
May 23, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Dan
White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
EXPRESSION OF APPRECIATION TO MAYOR’S YOUTH COUNCIL AND STATE OF
THE YOUTH REPORT.  Rachel Moseley, Chair of the Mayor’s Youth Council, utilizing a power
point presentation, reported on the group’s projects, activities and learning experiences during the
past year, noting their main focus was on suicide prevention.  Jan Spires, Mayor’s Youth Council
Coordinator, commended members of  the 2 015-2016 Youth Council on their commitment and
involvement and assisted Mayor Kaysen in presenting Certificates of Appreciation to the following
Youth Council members pre sent at the meeting: Ma ggie B lack, Juli a Hor st, Sum mer Straub-
Waldron,  Josh Weber, Tanner Robertson, Jason Weber, Angel Antunez, Jacob Freeman and Rachel
Moseley.  M s. Spires noted that members Madison Cook, Sora Bullis, Alexandria Rinne, Katie
Williams, Sawyer Ruben and Marvin Vinluan were unable to be present.  Mayor Kaysen expressed
appreciation to members for their time, commitment and dedication, and also to members’ families
for their support.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda. Mr. Cook moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 9, 2016.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Cook.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
          May or Kaysen opened a public hear ing to r eceive comments and input on a tra nsfer of
ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Flippers, LLC
d/b/a Flippers, 1617 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming  (License currently held by Cheyenne
Club, Inc., 1617 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  There being no comments and the purpose
of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing and referred the application
to  Finance Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a publi c hearing to determine w hether compliance of anne xation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for the N½ of  Lot 9, Block 2, Par sons
Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and  adjacent to Pi erce Avenue, south of
Laramie Street).  Seth Lloyd, Development Department, advised the proposed annexation is pursuant
to a petition requesting annexation submitted by the property owner; briefly reviewed the area to be
annexed, and stated that requirements and compliance of annexation conditions contained in state
statutes had been met.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having
been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to  receive public comment on a proposed sale of real
property owned by the City of Cheyenne, being Tract 2, Hildreth Subdivision, located generally
north of Polo Ranch Road, in Section 16, T. 14 N., R. 67 W., consisting of five (5) acres, more or
less, and having an appraised value of $62,500.00, to the United States of America, for and on behalf
of the De partment of V eterans Affairs, to be use d for the e stablishment of a N ational Veterans
Cemetery.  Rick Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation, provided information on the property,
noting use of the parcel for a Veterans Cemetery is affiliated with the City’s plans to develop a new
cemetery adjacent to the parcel in accordance with the Cemetery Master Plan previously adopted by
the governing body.  He stated a county plat of the area has been approved and a release from the
U.S. Dept. of Ag riculture (former lessee of  the ce metery property area) has been a cquired.  Mr.
Parish advised Gle nn Madderom, National Cemetery Association (NCA is par t of the Ve terans
Administration) and Kelli Witt, VA Real Property Services, were present to provide information on
the Veterans Cemetery Project.  Utilizing a power point presentation, Mr. Madderom explained the
role of the National Cemetery Administration, VA cemetery rural initiatives, development process,
project scope and elements of a VA Cemetery.  H e stated the c emetery would be maintained to
national standards and noted the na me of the small rur al NCA cemeteries typically identifies the
location of the c emetery geographically and is a na ming pr ocess involving  veter ans in the
community.  He advised if the land is acquired it would take approximately 2½ years to complete
the project.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Madderom explained the national policy that would be followed for
floral arrangements to be plac ed and other aspects of decorating graves; a local VA  staff person
would assist with managing the property and that grounds maintenance services would be contracted.
Larry Barttelbort, Director, Wyoming Veterans Commission, and retired Colonel Dave McCraken,
former base c ommander at F.E. Warr en Air F orce Base, each spoke in support of the  National
Veterans Cemetery Project and how it will serve the needs of veterans in the Cheyenne area.  There
being no further comments or input and purpose  of the he aring having been met, Mayor Kaysen
closed the public hearing.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments, input and discussion on route
changes and a fare increase for services provided by the Cheyenne Transit Program.  Renae Jording,
Cheyenne Transit Program Director, noted when the transit program began in 1989 the fare for adult
riders was set at $1.00 and has not changed since then.  She advised an increase rate of $1.50 for
adults and $1.25 for  students is being pr oposed to help off-set program expenses.  Ms. Jording
advised that ride rs aged 60 y ears or more c an utilize transit services a t no cost, or ca n make a
donation to the program, and that funding through CDBG (Community Development Block Grant
funds) helps subsidize through bus tokens to eligible riders.  She reviewed services provided and
route bus stops, grant funding, and proposed changes to the routes.  Bill Lyons spoke in support of
the transit system program but expressed his belief that the rate increase may be excessive to many
individuals who have fixed incomes.  Lea Bain spoke in support of the Transit Program as a public
service program generally as well as the fare increase.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Jording explained how
rates are formulated; routes to be expanded with one route being removed, and services provided to
ADA (federal Americans with Disabilities Act) qualified riders.  It was noted that rider fare revenue
received is put toward the Transit Program.  There being no further comments and purpose of the
hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE - 3  READI NG - A mending the City  of Chey enne’s Soli d Waste Fe erd
Schedule.  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, reviewed recommendations that have been
incorporated pursuant to the 2013 solid waste fee study; proposed 8% increase based upon the study,
and changes involving the yard waste program.  Julie Gliem, Cheyenne Landlords Association, spoke
in opposition to a fee increase, noting the cost to tenants by property owners would be passed on and
some tenants are lower income individuals, and cited concern with City Code Chapter 8.44 definition
of “building” relative to fees.  Ms. Gliem expressed her belief that apartment complexes, mobile
home parks and large complexes should have a lower rate, offered suggestions and comments on
other related services and City needs, and sug gested the item be  tabled.  Reporting  for F inance
Committee, Mr. Brown advised there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.
Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Ms. Nemecek
explained how charges are based; reviewed expenses of solid waste and transfer station services; cost
of proceeding with the landfill project, and elements of the solid waste enterprise fund.  She provided
information on why an increase is necessary based on the fee study, operational costs and department
needs, and reviewed potential funding options that may  be ava ilable to assist with costs for the
landfill expansion project, and the yard waste vs. solid waste pick-up services involving “snow
birds”.  Comments followed regarding the history of changes in the solid waste fund sinc e 2013,
changes and progress that has been made, and justification why an 8% increase is required over a
5 year period.   Motion carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body  with the
exception of Mr. Luna and Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#4129)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending various Sections of Chapter 9.24, Weapons, ofrd
Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for
Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated 5-17-16 which reflects amendments made
at the Public Services Committee, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  It was noted the substitute includes the
following language amendment to Section 9.24.030 (B) : Changes the fir st sentence to rea d “No
minor shall wear or carry any air gun, paintball gun, bow, or crossbow in public and not within a
range”.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting  “yes” --  all member s of the g overning body with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen voting “no”. (#4130)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Approving and establishing revised water and sewer rates,nd
tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and septic and
commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities.  Randy Hays, Board
of Public Utilities, provided a detailed explanation of service areas involving proposed rate increases.
Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook and Ms. Williams voting
“no”.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyomingnd
for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount
of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation all for the
Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2016 and ending J une 30, 2017.  Reporting  for Committee of the
Whole, Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Cook moved
to amend by removing $27,000.00 from Leisure Services Office Supplies line item and moving it
into the City Council Ward Contingency funds for a total of $9,000.00 in each Ward line item,
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Brief comments followed on use of current and past Council Contingency
funds per  Ward, and whe ther the g overning body should vote on per Ward c ontingency fund
expenditures.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with
the exception of Mr. Brown and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Upon inquiry, Lois Huff, City Treasurer,
provided information on Transit Program funds contained in the budget book.  Comment was made
that potentially a couple of items  may be offered for amendment at the next Committee of the Whole
meeting.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with
the exception of Mr. Shanor, Ms. Williams and Mr. Cook voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending Section 9.12.070, Spitting on Sidewalks, Floorsnd
of Public Buildings or Conveyances, of Chapter 9.12, Offenses Against Property, of Title 9, Public
Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services
Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approv e on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne and
Mayor Kaysen voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business and MUB
Mixed-Use Business Emphasis to CB Communi ty Business f or Lots 1-2 and 7-12, B lock One,
Holmes Corner, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge
Road a nd E . Pe rshing B oulevard).  D r. Ri nne r eported th e Pu blic Se rvices Co mmittee
recommendation was to appr ove with Planning c onditions #1, 2 and 3, however, since  the
Committee meeting it has been  verified that there are no requested conditions affiliated with the
item.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential-
Established to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential - High Density for the N½ of Lots 1 and 2, Block
76, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. 27th
Street and Evans Avenue).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the N½ ofST
Lot 9, Block 2, Parsons Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Pierce
Avenue, south of Laramie Street) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Pur suant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing classification f rom Co unty MR -  Me dium D ensity
Residential to MR-2 Medium-Density Residential-Developing for the N½ of Lot 9 and the adjacent
16-foot alley, Block 2, Parsons Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent
to Pierce Avenue, south of Laramie Street) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr.
Rinne).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Ordinance No. 4077 defining the terms andST
conditions of employment for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne -- referred to
Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Ordinance No. 4078 defining the terms andST
conditions of employment for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsors -- Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department of
Transportation for a Wy oming Rural Publi c Transportation Program Grant, for the  purpose of
assisting in providing the local match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit
Program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. §5311.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5768)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A pproving the  Ti tle VI  Pr ogram f or the  Che yenne Tr ansit Pr ogram,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5769)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2016 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5770)
 RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle Ridge,
10th Filing, a replat of Lots 13 and 22-39, Block 9, Saddle Ridge, 8th Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located west of and adjacent to Farthing Road, between Three Hearts and Wilderness Trails).  Dr.
Rinne reported the Public Services Committee recommendation was to approve with condition #1,
however, since the Committee meeting a proposed substitute map has been submitted that addresses
condition #1.  Dr. Rinne moved to ado pt, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Dr. Rinne moved to ame nd by
substitute revised plat map dated 5-20-16, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. (#5771) 
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle Ridge,
11th Filing, a replat of all of Lots 17-43, Block 7, Saddle Ridge, 8th Filing, Cheyenne Wyoming
(located at the southwest corner of the junction of Three Hearts and Red Feather Trails, north of E.
Pershing Boulevard).  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, se conded by Mr. Shanor, with condition #1 as
written, with condition #2 to read as follows: “Provide a 50 ft. blanket access local utility easement
on L ot 2, Block 1 subjec t to confirmation that such ea sement is sufficie nt to meet UDC
requirements”, and applying the same for conditions #3 and 4”.  F ollowing explanation that staff
conditions have been satisfied through submittal of a revised plat map, Dr. Rinne moved to amend
by substitute final plat map dated 05-20-16, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to amend carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body. (#5772)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Woods Landing Estates, the SE¼ of Section 14, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie C ounty,
Wyoming (located west of and a djacent to Whitney Road, north of De ll Range Boulevard).  Dr.
Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by revised plat map
dated 5-17-16 which satisfies conditions #1 and 2, seconde d by Mr. Roy bal.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5773)
Following a ten minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 7:55 p.m.
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing su bmission of  a n a pplication to t he Wyoming B usiness
Council under the B usiness Ready  Communi ty Gra nt and L oan Prog ram for  a Downtown
Development Project on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne for assistance in
funding the Jack R. Spiker Downtown Parking Structure SkyPath Connector Project.  Speaking in
favor of the application were:  Dale Steenbergen, President/CEO, Greater Cheyenne Chamber of
Commerce; Pete Laybourn, downtown property owner; Wendy Volk, realtor and board member of
Visit Che yenne; K en D ugas, imm ediate pa st Pres ident of  Che yenne L EADS; Ra ndy Rho des,
manager of  Wrang ler, a nd Hans Seitz, speaking  persona lly and as a  DDA B oard me mber.
Comments included: Support of the project by the Chamber of Commerce, Downtown Development
Authority (DDA), Cheyenne LEADS and Visit Cheyenne; investment in and development of the
downtown area and benefits of activating use of the Hynds Building; SkyPath providing connectivity
to the Spiker parking garage and adjacent businesses; DDA’s role in “fight blight” efforts; Hynds
Building development as an increased employment opportunity, and direct/indirect benefits to other
businesses.  Major Dorr questioned maintenance responsibilities and expressed liability, accessibility
and potential safety concerns.  Sam Galeotos, downtown building owner; Gabriel Pina, downtown
business owner, a nd Donn Edmund s spoke in opposition of the Sky Path, commenting on
maintenance re sponsibility; ho urs o f a ccess t o th e publ ic vs. a ny c onnecting bu siness; sa fety
concerns; expenditure of public money to benefit a private developer; limited benefit to the public,
and downtown pa rking shortag e.  May or Ka ysen and Mr . Steenber gen provided infor mation
available in response to que stions and conce rns involving Sky Path maintenance responsibilities
generally, noting specifics will be finalized if funding is approved; access by the public and related
hours, and offering SkyPath connectivity to adjo ining businesses.  Mr . Brown moved to adopt,
seconded by  Mr. L una.  Mr. Shanor  rec used himself fr om discussion and voting  due to an
employment r elationship with SL IB (S tate L oan a nd I nvestment B oard) a nd va cated Co uncil
Chambers.  In response to inquiry, Mr. Steenbergen provided additional information on current and
past developers’  interest in the Hynds Building and the need for the SkyPath as part of the current
developer’s plans, and potential maintenance agreements with adjacent businesses who would like
connectivity to t he SkyPath.  F ollowing further comments, motion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present in Council Chambers with the exception of Ms. Williams
voting “no”.  Foll owing announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers.
(#5774)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A pproving the budget of the Downtown Development Authority/Main
Street for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2016 and ending June 30, 2017 -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Holmes
Corner, a replat of all those remaining portions of Block One, all of Block Two, and that portion of
vacated Wills Road westerly of and adjacent thereto, Holmes Addition, First Filing; all of Lots 1 and
2, Block One, and that portion of vacated alley westerly of and adjacent thereto, Atkins Addition,
Second Filing; and that a pproximately 766 s quare foot portion of E. Pershing  Boulevard at the
southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and E. Pershing Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southea st corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and E. Per shing Boulevard) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 27th
Street Villas, a r eplat of the  N½ of L ots l and 2, Block 76, O riginal City, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southwest corner of the intersection of East 27th Street and Evans Avenue) -- referred
to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Adopting the Cheyenne Transit Program Route Change and Fare Increase
Plan -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Tourism Promotion
Joint Powers Board, d/b/a Laramie County Convention and Visitors Bureau and Visit Cheyenne, for
the distribution of Lodging Tax Revenues to the City of Cheyenne in the amount of $74,889.00.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6505)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses owned
by the Laramie County School District No. One to be use d and operated for public transportation
services during the 2016 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#6506)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Chey enne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for United
States Department of the Air Force owned land located at F.E. Warren Air Force Base to be used and
operated as a parking lot for public transportation services during the 2016 Cheyenne Frontier Days
celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6507)
 [CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., and Laramie County School District No. One for buses owned by the Laramie County School
District No. One to be used and operated for public transportation services during the 2016 Cheyenne
Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6508)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days,
Inc., for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping and other activities during
the 2016 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6509)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Goat Green, LLC, for vegetation management
along Dry Creek (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization
and HDR Eng ineering, Inc., for Converse and De ll Range Intersection Traffic Safety Plan, and
Converse Avenue 35% Design Plan (Metropolitan Planning Organization funds) -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Smith Environmental
& Engineering for the West Edge Pump House Park Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax,
Environmental Protection Agency Grant, State Loan and Investment Board Grant) -- referred to
Finance Committee. 
[CA] Offer to Se ll r eal p roperty o wned b y t he C ity o f C heyenne, b eing T ract 2 , H ildreth
Subdivision, a portion of the S½ and S½NW¼ of Section 16, T. 14 N., R. 67 W., of the 6  P.M.,th
Laramie County, Wyoming, consisting of five (5) acres, more or less, and having an appraised value
of $62,500.00, to the United States of A merica, for and on behalf of the Department of Veterans
Affairs, to be used for  the establishment of a  National Veterans Cemetery -- referred to Finance
Committee. 
Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6053 between the City of Cheyenne, and Pappas
& Pappas Architects, P.C., to provide for additional architectural and engineering services for the
Cheyenne Public Safety Center (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  M r. Brown moved to
approve in an amount not to exceed $101,323.00, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to
postpone to J une 13, 2016, sec onded by  Mr. Shanor. It was noted postponement will allow
additional time for City staff and the architects to continue discussions.  Motion to postpone carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6457 between City of Cheyenne, Public Works
Department and FCI Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, to establish the Guaranteed Maximum Price
(GMP) for the Waste Transfer Station Additions and Renovations Project (Solid Waste Fund, 1%
Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6457)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 6151 between the City of Cheyenne, and Short
Elliott Hendrickson, Inc., for the 19  Street Rehabilitation Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, 2015th
- 2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-28-16 for furnishing police car equipment for new police vehicles
for the Che yenne Police D epartment (2011-2014 1%  Sales Tax, Miscellaneous F ederal Funds).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Wireless Advanced Communications,
Evans, CO, in an amount not to exceed $167,517.00).
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-17-16 for a C ontract between the C ity o f Cheyenne, 1%
Construction Division, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Current Year 2016
Miscellaneous Concrete Project (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(amount not to exceed $609,823.56). (#6510)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-29-16 for furnishing miscellaneous Cisco computer hardware for
the new Public Safety Center from Vology, Inc., Oldsmar, Florida (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use
Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $50,460.00).
Consideration of Bid #S-15-16, for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Mechanical Systems, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Dry Creek Crossing at
Campstool Road Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Mr. Brown moved to reject the bid, seconded
by Ms. Williams.  It was advised the bid amount was above the engineer’s estimate and the project
will be re-bid.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-31-16 for furnishing Fujitsu Stylistic Q704 Tablets for the Cheyenne
Police Department (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]   Consideration of Bid #E-18-16 for furnishing four (4) new 2016-2017 pickup trucks for the
City of Cheyenne (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, 2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax, Solid Waste Management,
Weed & Pest) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-30-16 for furnishing four (4) New 2016 Police Package Motorcycles
for the Cheyenne Police Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Microbrewery permit application filed with the City Clerk's Office for WRCH Accomplice,
LLC d/b/a Accomplice Beer Co., 115 W. 15  Street, Suite 1, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (perth
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Restaurant l iquor lic ense application filed with the City Clerk's O ffice fo r WRCH
Accomplice, LLC d/b/a Accomplice Beer Co., 115 W. 15  Street, Suite 1, Cheyenne, Wyoming.th
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
 Transfer of ownership and transfer of location for a retail liquor license application filed with
the City Clerk’s Office for Sam’s West, Inc. d/b/a Sam’s Club, 1948 Dell Range, Boulevard (license
currently held by Cloud 9, Inc. d/b/a Cloud 9 Liquorland, 1958 Dell Range Boulevard, Suite C,
Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Randy Reed, attorney representing the applicant, reviewed the applicant’s
compliance with state statute leg al requirements, noting state  law allows liquor license s being
operated for clubs; explained the small footprint that will be used for  the alcohol sa les area and
proposed sales operations, and stated Sam’s Club is well equipped to sell age restricted products
through its security measures.  Scott Turner, Sam’s Club regional market manager, expressed that
the Club is a responsible seller of alcoholic beverages in many states.  Cody Nelson, Cheyenne store
general manager, provided information on a customer survey that had been recently co nducted
indicating favorable responses to the Club selling alcohol, and specifically discussed the volume of
the Club’s local member ship, daily transactions, number of employ ee associates and estimated
additional sales tax revenue the Club will generate if the application if approved.  [City Clerk note:
During comments, a handout was provided exhibiting photos of the Sam’s Club Casper facility,
which is similar to the proposed footprint the Cheyenne store would utilize.  Handout on file with
the City Clerk’s office.]  Deborah Herrin, Director of Public Affairs and Relations, Walmart and
Sam’s Club, clarified a lcoholic beve rages would be pur chased t hrough the Wy oming L iquor
Division as other liquor licensees must do; described beverages that would be offered, and reviewed
local economic benefits and employee volunteerism within the community.  Tom Kingham, owner
of Cloud 9 Liquorland, noted that anyone in the community holding a retail liquor license has the
same opportunity that he has to  sell their license if leg al requirements are met, and r equested
approval of the transfer.  Ron Gudenkauf, liquor store owner; Ashley Asmus, General Manager, Cool
River; Kevin Georges, D.T.’s owner; Gabriel Pina, and Victoria Hunt, liquor store employee, spoke
in opposition of the transfer application.  Com ments included: P rotection of small b usinesses;
questionable increased sales  tax dollars that would be g enerated; vacancy of cur rent licensee’s
business site if application is approved; effect of license approval on small liquor businesses; non
locally-held licenses; use of the term “convenience” as affiliated with liquor sales; concern with
opening “Pandora’s box” if transfer is approved; ensuring liquor licenses have community worth;
supporting local breweries and distilleries; competition and concern with unfair playing field and
pricing; transfer not increasing sales tax or i ncreasing community consumption levels, and City
Council making a decision that is best for the community.  Speaking in support of the application
were: Donn Edmunds; Wendy  Volk; Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group; Bob Chalstrom, and
Alisha David, manager, new Cheyenne Walmart Store.  Comments included: Customer convenience
of one-stop shopping; state liquor sy stem for re gulating lice nses being  “broke n”; impact of
competition and evaluation of same; non-discrimination of out of state and out of town companies
doing community business; support for shopper diversity in convenience, selection and choice, and
Walmart/Sam’s Club contributions to the Ci ty’s economy.  In response to comments, Mr. Reed
advised that statements from liquor licensee competitors should not be considered by the governing
body pursuant to Wyoming Supreme Court decisions, and Ms. Herrin advised that many of their
company stores ca rry cra ft distill ed and br ewery products.  Mr. B rown repo rted there wa s no
recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Georges stated if the license was being transferred to someone other
than a big box company, he would have no opposition.  Discussion included the following topics:
Best interests of community; concern for small businesses; need for revision of state liquor laws, and
meeting statutory  require ments mi xed with many  other va riables whe n considering  liquor
applications.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”  -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Mr.
Shanor, Mr. White and Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Ms. Williams.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, June 13, 2016 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and
Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2017. 
                                                                                                                                                
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 13, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance
of anne xation conditions required by  Wy oming Statute §15-1- 402 exis t for L ot 11, Block 4,
Homestead Addition First Filing Replat, and portions of: Section 10, the E½ of Section 4, the W½
of Section 3, the W½E½ of Section 3; and all of the S½SW¼ of Section 11, T.13N., R.66W., 6th
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. College Drive, and at the NW,
SW, SE corners of the intersection of I-80 and College Drive).
Announcement was made that two Calcuttas, benefitting Cheyenne area charities, will be
held as follows: Sunday, July 24, 2016 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in the Headquarters Tent located in
front of the Old West Museum, 4601 North Carey Avenue, Frontier Park, in conjunction with the
Championship Bull Ridi ng event, and Saturda y, J uly 30, 2016 beg inning a t 5:30 p.m. in t he
Headquarters Tent located in front of the Old West Museum, 4601 North Carey Avenue, Frontier
Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the 2016 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration (10%
of proceeds to bona fide charities).
Mayor Kaysen noted, due to timeliness invol ved, there were three additional items being
introduced as agenda items for referral to committee, and requested the City Clerk read each of the
following entitlements:
ORDINANCE - 1  READI NG - A mending, cre ating, deleting and r e-creating va riousST
chapters and sections within Title 15, Building s and Construction, of the Chey enne City Code
relating to general provisions, and including adoption of the International Building Code and other
related Codes, 2015 Edition; and the I nternational Energ y Conservation Code, 20 15 Edition
(sponsor -- Dr. Rinne) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
ORDINANCE - 1  READI NG - A mending, cre ating, deleting and r e-creating va riousST
chapters and sections within Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Cheyenne City Code relating to
general provisions pertaining to fire protection and regulations, and adoption of the International Fire
Code, 2015 Edition, and certain Codes and practices promulgated by the National Fire Protection
Association (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Chapter 2.32, Fire Department, SectionST
2.32.020, Department Personnel, and Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, Section
2.84.050, International Fire Code Board of Appeals, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the
Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the Fire and Rescue Department (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne) -- referred
to Public Services Committee.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting was
officially adjourned at 9:52 p.m.
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
June 9, 2016