MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-06-13 | CLIP_ID: 536 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 536

  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
June 13, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Absent:  Dicky Shanor.  Also present:  Carol Intlekofer, City
Clerk, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present . 
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on May  23, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown moved to a pprove payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and
Board of  Pub lic Ut ilities f or F iscal Y ear 2017 .  Jason Sa nchez, Pr esident, Che yenne Pub lic
Employees Association (CPEA), referenced discussion at the last Committee of the Whole meeting
regarding funding of two additional uniformed police officer positions at the Police Department and
using the funding to instead increase wages for current uniformed officers.  Mr. Sanchez explained
that providing salary increases to non-uniformed City employees should also be considered as a
fairness and equality issue, noting the problems the City has in recruiting and retaining employees
due to low salar ies; rising costs of living e xpenses; employee morale, and the essential se rvices
provided by all City employees, not just police officers.  He advised he would be requesting a 2.5%
increase for non-uniformed employees during discussion on the budget ordinance also on the
meeting agenda.  Discussion followed on growth in the community affecting services; employee
appreciation; uniformed vs. non-uniformed employees, and estimated cost of providing a 2.5%
increase to non-uniformed employees.  Upon request, Mr. Sanchez submitted information on the
proposed budget cost to provide the non-uniformed employee increases (on file with Office of City
Clerk), a nd L ois Huff, City  Trea surer, stated the c ost to the ge neral fund budg et would be
approximately $312,415.00, and that the non-general fund budget costs would be approximately
$499,509.00, which would need to be absorbed by non-general budget funds.  There being no further
comments and the purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
                                                                                                                                                
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hear ing to de termine whether compliance of annexation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for Lot 11, Block 4, Homestead Addition
First Filing Replat, a nd portions of: Section  10, the E½ of Sec tion 4, the W½ of S ection 3, the
W½E½ of Section 3; and all of the S½SW¼ of Section 11, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. College Drive, and at the NW, SW, SE corners
of the intersection of I-80 and College Drive).  Seth Lloyd, Development Department, advised the
proposed annexation is pursuant to a petition requesting annexation of approximately 900 acres into
the City submitted by the property owner; briefly reviewed the area to be annexed, and stated that
requirements and compliance of annexation criteria contained in state statutes had been met.  There
being no further comments or input and purpose  of the he aring having been met, Mayor Kaysen
closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Approving and establishing revised water and sewer rates, taprd
and system development fe es, administrative fe es, ser vice c harges and pe nalties, and septic a nd
commercial waste dump ra tes, as recommended by the B oard of Public Utili ties.  Reporting  for
Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms.
Williams voting “no”. (#4131)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyomingrd
for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing the amount
of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation all for the
Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2016 and ending  June 30, 2017.  Jason Sanchez, President, CPEA,
requested support to amend the budget by  adding  money  from re serves to give  non-uniforme d
employees a 2.5% raise to fix compensation problems and assist with retaining  employees.  Dawn
Barela inquired as to what types of other employers City employees were leaving their jobs for with
Mr. Sanchez explaining that employees are going to other governmental entities and private businesses
that offer better pa y.  L ois Huff, City  Trea surer, explained that only  the estimated a mount of
$312,415.00 would come out of reserves while expenses involving non-general funds would be funded
through existing non-general budget funds.  Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Mr. Cook moved
to approve on third and final r eading, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  Mr. Cook move d to amend by
increasing the DDA budget to $350,000.00 by removing $250,000.00 from general fund reserves that
is currently allocated to the DDA budg et,  leaving a $100,000.00 b alance in general fund reserves
allocated to the DDA budget, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen voting
“no”.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by removing $100,000.00 from general fund reserves and increasing
the City  Eng ineer’s Contractual Service s/Professional Deve lopment line item by  $100,000.00,
seconded b y Ms.  Willi ams.  Di scussion f ollowed o n u tilizing the  fu nds f or a ddressing po thole
problems.  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works/Engineering, explained the money would be better used for
spot patching which will allow several streets to then be slurry sealed as a future pothole preventative
measure.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with
the exception of Ms. Wil liams voting ‘no” .  Mr. Cook moved to amend by adding the following
footnote to the budget, seconded by Mr. Roybal: “On or before November 1, 2016, the Mayor shall
present to the Governing  Body a multi- faceted and comprehensive plan for c ost saving within the
City’s operations.  The plan should include numerous options for saving general fund expenditures
going forward into 2017 and beyond.  The plan should look at all operations and funding streams,
possible efficiencies, analysis of services, and any options and topics that the Mayor deems reasonably
appropriate for the Governing Body to consider.”  Comments following on whether the footnote to the
budget ordinance was inappropriate and should instead be offered in resolution format, and serving
the public.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal, Ms. Williams and Mr.
White.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Kaysen.  Mr. Cook
moved to amend by removing $9,000.00 from the Ward III Contingency line item and distributing it
within the Support Services line items as follows, seconded by Mr. Luna:  Animal Control, $650.00;
Animal Shelter, $1,125.0 0; Emergency Management Agency, $375.00; Cit y/County Health Dept.,
$6,300.00; Safe Harbor, $50.00; Alcohol Receiving Center, $300.00; Symphony Youth Concerts,
$50.00, and Laramie County Senior Service, $150.00.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen explained the
proposed recipients of the funds are agencies, not City departments, and the agencies would manage
the funding.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Mr. Brown moved to amend by moving $312,415.00 from reserves into the general fund to provide
a 2.5% salary increase to non-uniformed employees, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Mayor
Kaysen advised a  2% salar y increase was approved for eligible employees, excluding uniforme d
firefighters, for the current fiscal year, and Mr. Sanc hez confirmed that not all Police Department
employees are uniformed employees.  Discussion followed on the funding mechanism for non-general
fund salary increases, and the increase being a re-occurring expense that will need to be absorbed into
future budgets.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Main motion (as amended four times) carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all member s of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting  “no”.
(#4132)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending Section 9.12.070, Spitting on Sidewalks, Floorsrd
of Public Buildings or Conveyances, of Chapter 9.12, Offenses Against Property, of Title 9, Public
Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services
Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne
and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”. (#4133)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Sectionrd
5.1.2, Z oning Districts Established, and Sec tion 5.1.3, Official Z oning Ma p, of the Unifie d
Development Code, chang ing the zoning classific ation from CB Community  Business an d MUB
Mixed-Use Business Emphasis to CB Community Business for Lots 1-2 and 7-12, Block One, Holmes
Corner, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and
E. Pershing Boulevard).  Dr. Rinne moved to appr ove on third and f inal reading, seconded by Mr.
Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4134)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Sectionrd
5.1.2, Z oning D istricts Established, and Sectio n 5.1.3, Offic ial Z oning Ma p, of the Unifie d
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential-
Established to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential - High Density for the N½ of Lots 1 and 2, Block 76,
Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of E. 27th
Street and Evans Avenue).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4135)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the N½ of Lotnd
9, Block 2, Parsons  Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and a djacent to Pi erce
Avenue, south of Laramie Street).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.
Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Sectionnd
5.1.2, Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Off icial Z oning Ma p, of the Unifie d
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom Co unty MR -  Me dium D ensity
Residential to MR-2 Medium-Density Residential-Developing for the N½ of Lot 9 and the adjacent
16-foot alley, Block 2, Parsons Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to
Pierce Avenue, south of Laramie Street).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 2  R EADING - Amending  Ordinance No. 4077 de fining the terms andnd
conditions of employment for non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne.  Jason Sanchez,
President, CPEA, expressed appreciation for funding a 2.5% salary increase included in the budget
ordinance for non-uniformed employee raises.  L ois Huff, City Treasurer, stated that due to the
approved budget ordinance amendment, Section 4 of the terms and conditions ordinance should be
amended to reflect the salary increases.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Ms. Wi lliams.  Mr. Brow n moved to amend Sec tion 4 by  removing the strike-out of 2%  and
inserting 2.5%, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Comment was made on employees deserving a salary increase
and appreciation for their ser vices.  Motion to am end carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.  Ma in motion as amended carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - A mending Ordinance No. 4078 de fining th e terms andnd
conditions of employment for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department.  Detective
Aaron Willmarth, Police Protective Association (PPA), spoke in s upport of a proposed substitute
ordinance providing a salary increase for sworn officers.  C hief Brian Kozak, Police Department,
provided information on the budget process involving funding for two additional officer positions due
to community growth and coverage needs, and stated the PPA requested to instead use the funding for
the new positions for c urrent officer salary increases to assist with recruiting and retention.  Chief
Kozak explained the department is understaffed by approximately 11 officers based upon growth in
the City, and discussed concerns involving recruitment of new officers reflecting a lower number of
applicants over the past few years, and non-competitive wages (under market value) compared with
the region.  Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr. Roybal
moved to amend by substitute ordinance, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Upon inquiry, Detective Willmarth
briefly explained the salary  adjustments outlined in the  attached compensa tion schedules to the
substitute ordinance which provides a 2.5% increase for the majority of sworn officers.  Discussion
followed on the sa lary incre ases be ing “ expenditure neutral” budg et-wise, a nd making  wag es
competitive and as a n incentive for recruiting and retaining employees.  Motion to amend c arried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Discussion followed on additional officer
positions; raises for all employees in general, and support for Police Department officers.  M ain
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending, creating, deleting and re-creating various chaptersnd
and sections within Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Cheyenne City Code relating to
general provisions, and including adoption of the International Building Code and other related Codes,
2015 Edition; and the International Energy Conservation Code, 2015 Edition.  Speaking in support of
a proposed ordinance amendment as discussed and recommended at the recent Public S ervices
Committee meeting were:  Chuck West, rea ltor with #1 Properties; J oe Patterson, City Contractor
Licensing Board member and immediate pa st president of the Southea st Wyoming Homebuilders
Association; Tom Jacobsen, #1 Properties, and Ron Van Voast, First Security Bank.  Discussion points
included: Support for retaining current City Code wording that removes fire sprinkler requirements
involving construction of new residential 4-plexes; exclusion of twin homes with regard to sprinkler
requirements; insurance carriers’ position on residential fire sprinklers; review and recommendation
process of I nternational Code chang es throug h the local Code Revi ew Committee unde r the
supervision of the City’s Chief Building Code Official and Committee me mber composition;
alternative construction methods; local jurisdictions throughout the U.S. adopting and amending codes
to adapt to local conditions; residential sprinkler systems installation and maintenance costs and effect
on builders, owners and tenants; U.S. fire statistics on fire deaths, and affordable housing.  Chief Jim
Martin, Fire and Rescue Department, stated the proposed substitute ordinance, if approved, would also
affect the next agenda item involving Fire Codes, and noted that the codes adopted by the City must
be the same or not less restrictive than those codes adopted by the state.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by un-striking the wording
in paragraph M in Section 903.2.8 in its entirety and reinstating it, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon
inquiry, Mr. Jacobsen explained an alternative to a sprinkler system would be a fire wall between the
units and smoke detectors, and Mr. Patterson provided information on sprinkler line requirements and
monitoring, for a fee, through a third party provider.  In response to query, Chief Martin provided
information available on fire prevention through use of sprinkler systems and water damage caused
by fire hoses vs. sprinkler systems, and stated the code pertaining to smoke alarms and carbon dioxide
monitors remains unchanged.  I n response to q uery, Mr. Patterson advised that to the best of his
knowledge ther e would proba bly be a c ost associated w ith resetting  a fire  suppre ssion sy stem
following activation or te sting, and Byron Matthews, Fire and Rescue Department, confirmed that
smoke alarm detectors are available for free to eligible recipients through a federally funded program.
Motion to amend car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present with the
exception of Ms. Williams and  Mr. White voting “no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Williams and Mr. White
voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending, creating, deleting and re-creating various chaptersnd
and sec tions withi n Title 8, Hea lth and Safety , of the Chey enne City  Code relating to g eneral
provisions pertaining to fire protection and regulations, and adoption of the International Fire Code,
2015 E dition, a nd c ertain Co des a nd p ractices p romulgated b y th e N ational F ire Pr otection
Association.  Joe Patterson, Southeast Wyoming Homebuilders Association, commented in support
of the amendment, as recommended by the Public Services Committee, to stay  consistent with the
change made on the previous agenda item.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Mr. Roy bal.  Dr. Rinne moved to a mend by substitute dated May 26, 2016, seconde d by Mr.
Roybal.  Up on in quiry, D an Wh ite, Ci ty A ttorney, e xplained th e s ubstitute c ontains c orrections
involving deletion of are as that we ren’t changing in c urrent city code a nd weren’t needed in the
ordinance.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Dr.
Rinne moved to amend by un-striking the wording in paragraph F in Section 903.2.8 in its entirety and
reinstating it, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to amend carried with all members of the governing
body present voting “yes”.  Main motion as twice amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending Chapter 2.32, Fire Department, Section 2.32.020,nd
Department Personnel, and Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, Section 2.84.050,
International Fire Code Board of Appeals, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the Cheyenne
City Code perta ining to the F ire a nd Rescue D epartment.  Chief J im Martin, Fire  and Rescue
Department, explained the ordinance changes the date to t he 2015 Edition.  D r. Rinne moved to
approve on second  reading, sec onded by Mr. Cook.  Dr. Rinne moved to ame nd by substitut e,
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map amendment, SectionST
5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, by changing the zoning classification from LI-Light Industrial District to MUB-
Mixed Use Business Emphasis District for a parcel of land situated at the south 70 feet of the west 52.6
feet of Lot 5, Block 274, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as 1022 W. 20th Street,
(located at the northeast corner of Ames Avenue and W. 20th Street)  -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Section 10.64.040, Stopping, Standing andST
Parking of Buses and Taxicabs Regulated, of Chapter 10.64, Loading and Unloading, of Title 10,
Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services
Committee (sponsor - Mr. Johnson).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Section 8.56.050, Motor Ve hicle Mufflers, ofST
Chapter 8.56, Noise  Control, of Title 8, Health and Saf ety, of the City  of C heyenne, Wyoming --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Johnson).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Repealing Various Sections of Chapter 10.20, Traffic ControlST
Devices, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Johnson).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Section 8.52.040, Distribution of Handbills inST
Public Places, of Chapter 8.52, Handbills, of Title 8, Hea lth and Safety, of the Code of the City of
Cheyenne, Wyoming  -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Mr. Johnson).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lot 11, BlockST
4, Homestead Addition First Filing Replat, and portions of: Section 10, the E½ of Section 4, the W½
of Section 3, the W½E½ of Section 3; and all of the S½SW¼ of Section 11, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M.,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. College Drive, and at the NW, SW, SE
corners of the inter section of I -80 and C ollege Drive) - - re ferred to Public Service s Commi ttee
(sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, SectionST
5.1.2, Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Off icial Z oning Ma p, of the Unifie d
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial, County A-2
Agricultural, and County PUD to P Public and AG Agricultural for Lot 11, Block 4, Homestead
Addition First Filing Replat, and portions of: Section 10, the E½ of Section 4, the W½ of Section 3,
the W½E½ of Section 3; and all of the S½SW¼ of Section 11, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. College Drive, and at the NW, SW, SE corners
of the intersection of I-80 and College Drive) --  referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Dr.
Rinne).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1,  Zoning Map Amendments, SectionST
5.1.2,  Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3,  Of ficial Z oning Ma p, of the Unifie d
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential -
Established and MR-2 Medium Density Residential - Developing to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential -
High Density for L ots 24-28, Bloc k 4, South P ark Estates, 2nd Filing , and L ots 7-12, Bloc k 15,
Roberts Place, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of a nd adjacent to Arke l Way, north of W. 3rd
Street) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the budget of the Downtown Development Authority/Main Street
for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2016 and ending June 30, 2017.  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. (#5775)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Holmes
Corner, a replat of all those remaining portions of Block One, all of Block Two, and that portion of
vacated Wills Road westerly of and adjacent thereto, Holmes Addition, First Filing; all of Lots 1 and
2, Block One, and that portion of vac ated alley westerly of and a djacent thereto, Atkins Addit ion,
Second Filing; and that appr oximately 766 square  foot portion of E. Pershing  Boule vard a t the
southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and E. Pershing Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(located at the southeast corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and E. Pershing Boulevard).  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5776)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 27th Street
Villas, a replat of the N½ of Lots l and 2, Block 76, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the
southwest corner of the intersection of East 27th Street and Evans Avenue).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5777)
 RESOLUTION - Adopting the Cheyenne Transit Program Route Change and Fare Increase
Plan.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Renee Jording, Cheyenne Transit Director,
explained services will not be increasing and that free bus tokens to eligible recipients are available
through the CDBG (Community Development Block Grant) program.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#5778)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and City  Clerk to enter into a Memora ndum of
Understanding with the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming to submit a
joint application for a g rant a ward under the  Edwar d Byrne Me morial J ustice Assistance  Gra nt
Program -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the budget of the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services
Joint Powers Board for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2016 and ending June 30, 2017 -- referred
to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting the Cheyenne Regional Freight Mobility Plan -- referred to Public
Services Committee (sponsors -- Dr. Rinne and Mr. White).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with the
application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award of
Fiscal Year 2013 - 2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding in the amount of $41,201.00,
and Fiscal Year 2015 - 2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding in the amount of $44,093.00
for an RV C ampsite Area on the Ar cher Fairgrounds property -- r eferred to Financ e Committ ee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting  the City  of Chey enne’s Application for Tr ansportation
Alternatives Progr am (TAP) Funds for Continuation of the Gr eenway Sy stem, specific ally, the
Avenues connector -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Johnson). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the  Ma yor of  the City of  Che yenne to c reate a  Sist er C ity
relationship with the City of Accra, Ghana -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr.
Rinne).
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Amendment to Resolution No. 5774 adopted on May 23, 2016 Authorizing
submission of an application to the Wyoming Business Council under the Business Ready Community
Grant and Loan Program for a Downtown Development Project on  behalf of the  Governing Body of
the City of Cheyenne for assistance in funding the Jack R. Spiker Downtown Parking S tructure
SkyPath Connection Project -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA]     Preliminary Plat for South Park Estates 9th Filing, a replat of Lots 24-28, Block 4, South Park
Estates 2nd Filing, and Lots 7-12, Block 15, Roberts Place, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and
adjacent to Arkel Way, north of W. 3rd Street) -- referred to Public Services Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Goat Green, LLC, for vegetation management
along Dry Creek (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to
exceed $53,587.00). (#6513)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization
and HDR Eng ineering, Inc., for Converse a nd Dell Rang e Intersection Traff ic Safe ty Plan, and
Converse Avenue 35% Design Plan (Metropolitan Planning Organization funds).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $93,469.80). (#6514)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Smith Environmental &
Engineering for the West Edge Pump House Park Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax,
Environmental Protection Agency Grant, State L oan and I nvestment Board Grant).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $392,176.00). (#6515)
Offer to Sell real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, being Tract 2, Hildreth Subdivision,
a portion of the S½ and S½NW¼ of Section 16, T. 14 N., R. 67 W., of the 6  P.M., Laramie County,th
Wyoming, consisting of five (5) acres, more or less, and having an appraised value of $62,500.00, to
the United States of America, for and on behalf of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to be used for
the establishment of a  National Ve terans Cemetery.  Rick Parish, Direc tor, Parks and Recreation
Department, advised tra nsaction deta ils are still being  finalized and requested a  two wee k
postponement.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone
to June 27, 2016, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present.  
[CA] Agreement for services between the City of Cheyenne and the Church of St. Mary, defining
the responsibilities for ground maintenance, operations, and Office Administrative services for the
Church at Olivet Cemetery -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
shelter services -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
control services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use of
the Cheyenne Civic Center for the 2016 - 2017 Concert Season -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra  for use of
the Cheyenne Civic Center for Youth Education Concerts -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Davis & Cannon, LLP, to provide civil legal
services as the Interim City Attorney -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie County
for revenues derived from the one  percent Sales Tax y ears 2011 thru 2014 -- r eferred to Financ e
Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of Wyoming, for dental benefits
plan for city employees -- referred to Finance Committee.
Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6053 between the City of Cheyenne, and Pappas
& Pappas Architects, P.C., to provide for  additional architectural and engineering services for the
Cheyenne Public Safety Center (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) (postponed from May 23,
2016).  Chief B rian Kozak, Police Department, explained negotiation discussions on t he contract
modification with the architect were held and an agreement had been reached.  Mr. Brown moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. L una.  Mr. B rown moved to a mend by substitute which de creases the
modification amount to a not to exceed amount of $72,070.00, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion to
amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Ms.
Williams voting “no”.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present. (#6053)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to Contract No. 6151 between the City of Cheyenne, and Short
Elliott Hendrickson, Inc., for the 19  Street Rehabilitation Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, 2015 -th
2018 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Co nsent Agenda) carried (amount not to ex ceed $77,637.72).
(#6151)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6440 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman
Corporation for the 19th Street Rehabilitation Project - Phase II (2011 - 2014, 2015 - 2018 1% Sales
Tax, BOPU) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-31-16 for furnishing Fujitsu Stylistic Q704 Tablets for the Cheyenne
Police Department (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(accepted bid from Howa rd Tec hnology Solutions, Ellisvi lle, MS, in an amount not to ex ceed
$210,686.00).
  
   Consideration of Bid E-8-16 for furnishing four (4) new 2016-2017 pickup trucks for the City
of Cheyenne (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax, 2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax, Solid Waste Management, Weed
& Pe st).  V icki Nem ecek, D irector, Pu blic Wor ks De partment, pr ovided in formation o n c osts
involving back-up sensors and how the sensors assist during backing up situations.  Mr. Brown moved
to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek provided information on the model
years and mileage of the trucks to be tr aded-in, noting that one vehicle is currently inoperable and
would incur costs to repair, and indicated that cost of repairs, maintenance and availability of parts is
among the factors considered when trading-in vehicles.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-30-16 for furnishing four (4) New 2016 Police Package Motorcycles
for the Cheyenne Police Department (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried (accepted bid from Victor y Police Motorcy cles, Tucson, AZ, in an amount not to ex ceed
$116,896.00). 
[CA] Consideration of B id #S-18-16 for a  contract between the City  of Chey enne, Engineering
Department, and Pole Mountain Electric, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the LED Lighting Upgrade
Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax)  -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-32-16 for furnishing two (2) ne w Cab & Chassis with R ear Load
Refuse Col lection b odies, 25 -Cubic Yard wi th T ippers fo r t he Sa nitation D ivision ( Solid Wa ste
Management)  -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #S-20-16 for a  contract between the City  of Chey enne, Engineering
Department, and Kolbe Striping, Inc., Castle Rock, Colorado, for 2016 City of Cheyenne Pavement
Markings Project (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax)  -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-21-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Park Division, and
Signature Underwriters, Lakewood, CO, for the Lake Absarraca and Sloans Lake Boat Docks project
(State Park Grant, 2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax)  -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-34-16 for furnishing two (2) new Ten -Yard Tandem Dump Trucks
with Spreader and Snowplow for the City’s Street & Alley Division (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax)  --
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office
for Flippers, LLC d/b/a Flippers, 1617 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming  (License currently held
by Cheyenne Club, Inc., 1617 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 27, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Ch ambers, 2 101 O’Neil Ave nue, Ch eyenne, Wy oming, f or a  re staurant l iquor lic ense
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for J Aldana LLC d/b/a El Poblano Mexican Restaurant,
1720 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made of the  Appointment of Davis & Cannon, LLP, as interim Cit y
Attorney, to be confirmed June 27, 2016. 
Under other business:
Mayor Kaysen noted, due to timeliness involved, there was an additional item being introduced
for the a genda a nd reque sted the City  Clerk re ad the following e ntitlement: “RESOL UTION -
Authorizing the Use of city reserves to fund the design and construction of a pedestrian crosswalk at
the intersection of Pershing Boulevard and Duff Avenue.”  Mayor Kaysen referred the item to Finance
Committee (sponsor - Ms. Williams).
Upon inquiry by Ms. Wi lliams, Tom Mason, Metropolit an Planning Organization (MPO),
provided a n u pdate on  the  sta tus of  imp lementation o f t he 8  Av enue Cor ridor P lan a nd Wes tth
Lincolnway Streetsca pe Projec t.  He noted some pla nning pr ojects invo lve long  and short ter m
elements and that the MPO produce s plans but doesn’t nec essarily provide funding  to construct
projects.  Mayor Kaysen advised a portion of the West Lincolnway project is set to be completed this
fall, and that funding sources need to be identified before beginning a project.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 8:06 p.m.
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
June 25, 2016