MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-06-27 | CLIP_ID: 538 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 538

  R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
June 27, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor,
Jeff White and Annette Williams. Absent: Richard Johnson.  Also present: Kristy Anderson, Deputy
City Clerk, and Dan White, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda. Ms. Williams requested item #26 be removed, but support by two
council members was not received, so the item remained on the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by
Ms. Williams, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal, item #29 was removed
from the Consent Agenda.   Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded
by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on J une 13, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown moved to a pprove payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Upon inquiry  reg arding vouche rs payable, May or Ka ysen and V icki Nemec ek, Public Works
Director, r eviewed i nformation a bout t he f ollowing v ouchers: A merimulch D ispersions LLC
(colored mulch purchased for re-sale); Fort Collins Tree Care Inc. (weed spraying); Intermountain
Traffic, L LC ( placement o f 4  sc hool zo ne fl ashers a t sp ecifically ide ntified s chools); Mir acle
Recreation E quipment (repla cement of thera peutic swing  seat a t the Aquatic Cente r); Richar d
Kramer ( refund o f d evelopment f ees); a nd Ja mes Sc herocman ( consulting f ees f or Simon
Contractors).  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for J Aldana LLC d/b/a El Poblano Mexican
Restaurant, 1720 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  There being no comments or input, Mayor
Kaysen closed the public hearing and referred this application to the Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the N½ of Lotrd
9, Block 2, Parsons Addition, L aramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Pierce
Avenue, south of Laramie Street).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.  (#4136)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Sectionrd
5.1.2, Z oning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Of ficial Z oning Ma p, of the Unifie d
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom Co unty MR -  Me dium D ensity
Residential to MR-2 Medium-Density Residential-Developing for the N½ of Lot 9 and the adjacent
16-foot alley, Block 2, Parsons Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to
Pierce Avenue, south of Laramie Street).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#4137)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - A mending Ordin ance No. 4077 defining  the terms andrd
conditions of employ ment for non- uniformed employees of the City  of Chey enne. Reporting for
Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4138)
ORDINANCE - 3  READI NG - Amending Or dinance No. 4078 def ining the te rms andrd
conditions of employment for sworn officers of the City of Cheyenne Police Department. Mr. Brown
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4139)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending, creating, deleting and re-creating various chaptersrd
and sections within Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Cheyenne City Code relating to
general provisions, and including adoption of the International Building Code and other related Codes,
2015 Edition; and the International Energy Conservation Code, 2015 Edition. Speaking in support of
the ordinance as a mended on June 13, 2016 that provided an option for  a fire w all in place of  a
sprinkler s ystem in  mul ti-family str uctures were: Tom  Jac obson, #1  Pr operties; C huck We st,
commercial real estate broker and member of the Board of Adjustment; Dale Steenbergen, Director
of Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce; Joe Patterson, member of Contractor Licensing Board
and  Southeast Wyoming Homebuilders Association; Doug Selby, architectural business and Pres. of
affordable housing group.  Topics discussed were: Costs associated with installing sprinkler systems
in new developments; sections of the International Building Code and administration and authority
provided to building official; requirement of smoke alarms to be installed in all rooms; installation of
sprinkler systems making housing too cost prohibitive. James Martin, Fire Chief, reviewed safety
concerns with restricting fire sprinklers in multi-plexes and not meeting Code.  Dr. Rinne moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Co mments followed in support of
amendment to ordinance as previously approved on June 13, 2016.  Upon inquiry, Fire Chief Martin
and City Attorney Dan White noted if a building is not in compliance the State Fire Marshall would
advise as to such and become the authority overseeing control. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#4140)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending, creating, deleting and re-creating various chaptersrd
and sec tions withi n Title  8, Hea lth and Safety , of the Chey enne City  Code rela ting to g eneral
provisions pertaining to fire protection and regulations, and adoption of the International Fire Code,
2015 Edition, and cer tain Codes and pra ctices pr omulgated by  the National  Fire Protection
Association.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal . Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4141)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending Chapter 2.32, Fire Department, Section 2.32.020,rd
Department Personnel, and Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, Section 2.84.050,
International Fire Code Board of Appeals, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the Cheyenne
City Code pertaining to the Fire and Rescue Department.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and
final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present. (#4142)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map amendment, Sectionnd
5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, by changing the zoning classification from LI-Light Industrial District to MUB-
Mixed Use Business Emphasis District for a parcel of land situated at the south 70 feet of the west 52.6
feet of Lot 5, Block 274, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as 1022 W. 20th Street,
(located at the northeast corner of Ames Avenue and W. 20th Street).  Jay Otto, business and property
owner located across from subject property, spoke in opposition to the zone change and spot zoning,
questioned enforcement of UDC requirements and permit and construction process.  Jeffrey Boldt, The
Kuker Group, a gent for applicant, re quested approval and provided infor mation relating to non-
conforming use, and the permitting and building process involving the property.  Dr. Rinne moved to
approve on second r eading, seconde d by Mr. Shanor. Comments followed re garding abandone d
buildings, blight, spot zoning and re-evaluation of the area for zoning.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. White voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending Section 10.64.040, Stopping, Standing and Parkingnd
of Buses and Taxicabs Regulated, of Chapter 10.64, Loading and Unloading, of Title 10, Vehicles and
Traffic, of the  Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve  on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor. Brief comments followed in support of ordinance.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - A mending Section 8.56.050, Motor Vehicle  Mufflers, ofnd
Chapter 8.56, Noise Control, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr.
Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Comments followed that the
intent of the ordinance is to be in compliance with state statute.  Upon inquiry regarding increasing the
penalty for this violation from $100 to $200, Ben Rowland, Assistant City Attorney, clarified it is
already at $200 per state statute so the fine does not need to be increased or added. Further discussion
followed on imposing f ines. Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the governing body
present. 
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Repealing Various Sections of Chapter 10.20, Traffic Controlnd
Devices, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne moved to
approve on second r eading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Brief discussion followed.  Motion ca rried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne,
Mr. Shanor and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”. 
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending Section 8.52.040, Distribution of Handbills innd
Public Places, of Chapter 8.52, Handbills, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, recommended using caution so as not
to violate second amendment rights.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.
Brown.  It was noted the intent of the ordinance is to prevent handbills being placed on motor vehicles.
Mr. Shanor moved to amend to s trike Section 8.52.040, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Comme nts
followed.  Upon inquiry, City Attorney Dan White, clarified if someone is observed violating this
section of city code then they could possibly be issued a citation. Questions arose as to how long this
section had been on the books and whether there had been any legal challenges with City Attorney Dan
White responding he had not had any legal inquiries since he had been the city attorney and it was not
known how long it had been on the books.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present with the exception of Mr. B rown, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roy bal and Ma yor
Kaysen voting “no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present with the exception of Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lot 11, Blocknd
4, Homestead Addition First Filing Replat, and portions of: Section 10, the E½ of Section 4, the W½
of Section 3, the W½E½ of Section 3; and all of the S½SW¼ of Section 11, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M.,
Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. College Drive, and at the NW, SW, SE
corners of the intersection of I-80 and College Drive).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by revised annexation map dated June 9, 2016,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.   Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present. 
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, Sectionnd
5.1.2, Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Off icial Z oning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial, County A-2
Agricultural, and County PUD to P Public and AG Ag ricultural for Lot 11, Block 4, H omestead
Addition First Filing Replat, and portions of: Section 10, the E½ of Section 4, the W½ of Section 3,
the W½E½ of Section 3; and all of the S½SW¼ of Section 11, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. College Drive, and at the NW, SW, SE corners
of the intersection of I-80 and College Drive).  Dr . Rinne moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by revised zone change map dated June 9, 2016,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.   Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
 
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1,  Zoning Map Amendments, Sectionnd
5.1.2,  Z oning D istricts Establ ished, and Section 5.1.3,  Offic ial Z oning Ma p, of the Unifie d
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential -
Established and MR-2 Medium Density Residential - Developing to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential -
High Density for L ots 24-28, Bloc k 4, South P ark Estates, 2nd Filing , and L ots 7-12, Bloc k 15,
Roberts Place, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and a djacent to Arkel Way , north of W. 3rd
Street).    Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Upon inquiry,
Mayor Kaysen clarified this is planned for a residential development with ten four-plexes.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Section 9.08.080, Indecent Exposure, of ChapterST
9.08, Offenses Against Public Peace and Decency, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Johnson).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and City Clerk to enter  into a Memorandum of
Understanding with the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming to submit a
joint application for a g rant a ward under the  Edwar d Byrne Me morial J ustice Assistance  Gra nt
Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5779 RES/#6534 MOU)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving the budget of the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services
Joint Powers Board for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2016 and ending June 30, 2017.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5780)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A dopting the Che yenne Re gional Fr eight Mobili ty Plan.   Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5781)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with the
application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming, for an award of
Fiscal Year 2013 - 2014 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding in the amount of $41,201.00,
and Fiscal Year 2015 - 2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding in the amount of $44,093.00
for an RV Campsite Area on the Archer Fairgrounds property.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5782)
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Su pporting th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne’s A pplication f or T ransportation
Alternatives Pr ogram (T AP) Funds f or Continuation of the Gre enway Sy stem, specific ally, the
Avenues connector.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5783)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor of the City of Cheyenne to create a Sister Ci ty
relationship with the City of Accra, Ghana.  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Upon
inquiry, Mayor Kaysen explained Accra is the largest city in Ghana and by being a sister city it is hope
to improve the economic posture for both communities.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present.  (#5784)
 RESOLUTION - Amendment to Resolution No. 5774 adopted on May 23, 2016 Authorizing
submission of an application to the Wyoming Business Council under the Business Ready Community
Grant and Loan Program for a Downtown Development Project on  behalf of the  Governing Body of
the City of Cheyenne for assistance  in funding  the J ack R. Spiker Dow ntown Parking Structure
SkyPath Connection Project.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Shanor declared
a conflict of interest due to his professional relationship with SLIB and vacated Council Chambers.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers with
the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned
to Council Chambers.  (#5785)
Following a ten minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:10 p.m.
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the use of city reserves to fund the design and construction of
a pedestrian crosswalk at the intersection of Pershing Boulevard and Duff Avenue.”  Spea king in
support of the resolution were:  Peter Laybourn, Gregg Crisp, Patti Reisland, Acting Chair for Mayor’s
Council for People with Disabilities, and Becky Massingill. Comments in support included keeping
the business area vibrant and re-invigorate it by having easy access with a pedestrian crosswalk, safety
concerns with this being a high traffic area causing difficulty for people to cross the road, and necessity
of a crossing signal in addition to a crosswalk.  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Mr. Brown moved to a mend by striking the 4  and 5  Whereas clauses in their entirety , and byth th
changing the language in the “Now, Therefore” clause to read as follows:  “NOW, THEREFORE, BE
IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, that the sum of One
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) be released from the City’s Specific Reserves fund to fund
the cost of design and construction of the pedestrian improvements recommended in Phase I of the
Pershing Blvd. Complete Streets study as noted on pages 35 and 36 of the study,” seconded by Mr.
Cook.  Mr. L aybourn questioned the f unding mechanism and if tha t amount included eve rything
necessary for completion of the project.  Mayor Kaysen clarified the funding will come from general
fund reserves. Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, Tom Mason, MPO Director, and
Sreyoshi Chakraborty , MPO Senior Planner, re viewed pr oject funding  op tions, the Pavement
Management list and what this encompasses and how streets are added to the list, cost of design and
construction recommended in Phase I of the Pershing Blvd. Complete Streets study, with a $110,000
estimate that would include e verything for completio n of the project.  Motion to amend ca rried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the g overning body present with the exception of Mr. Br own, Mr.
Roybal and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”.  Further discussion followed on concerns with using the City’s
reserves to fund the pr oject.  Mr. Shanor m oved to amend the “N OW, THEREFORE, B E IT
RESOLVED” para graph a s follows: “ NOW, THEREFO RE, BE I T RESOL VED B Y THE
GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, that Phase I of the Pershing Blvd. Complete
Streets study be moved to first on the Pavement Management list and that work shall begin on or
before March 2017. Said project will be funded completely with 5  Penny proceeds from the Pavementth
Management fund, just as other projects on the Pavement Management list,” seconded by Mr. Luna.
Ms. Nemec ek spoke in opposition to the spe cificity of funding  the projec t with the Pavement
Management funding and requested it be more general regarding use of 5  Penny monies to give herth
some latitude.  Mr. L aybourn and Mr . Crisp spoke in oppositi on to the motion and utiliz ing the
Pavement Mana gement funding  noting it i s underfunded alr eady. Fur ther c omments followed
regarding funding this with t he Pavement Management funds vs.  5  Penny funding vs. utili zingth
reserves to fund the project, and the process and timing of the project. Motion to amend failed.  Voting
“yes” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Shanor.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Dr. Rinne, Mr.
White, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.  Discussion followed on concerns with  utilizing reserves
vs. pavement management funds, placement on the Pavement Management list and using general 5th
Penny funding. Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek reviewed how the projects are prioritized on the Pavement
Management list noting projects are computer generated and there is no favoritism in selecting  the
projects. She noted projects cannot be added to the list as the computer generat es this l ist.  M s.
Nemecek reviewed the 5  Penny funding availability through 26-16 funds (maintenance projects) andth
26-17 funds (traffic).  Mr. Shanor moved to amend the “Now, Therefore, be it resolved” paragraph as
follows: “NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY
OF CHEYENNE, that Phase I of the Pershing Blvd. Complete Streets Study be moved to first on the
Pavement Management list and work shall begin on or  before March 2017. Said projec t will be
completely funded with 5  Penny proceeds, including, but not limited to funding divisions 2616 andth
2617,” seconded by Mr. Luna. It was clarified the amendment completely funds the project and it is
not limited to any specific amount.  Motion to amend car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present.  Main motion as twice amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present with Mr. Brown voting “no”.  (#5786)
    Preliminary Plat for South Park Estates 9th Filing, a replat of Lots 24-28, Block 4, South Park
Estates 2nd Filing, and Lots 7-12, Block 15, Roberts Place, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and
adjacent to Arkel Way, north of W. 3rd Street).  D r. Rinne moved to ac knowledge the Planning
Commission’s recommendation to approve with staff conditions #1 and 2, seconded by Mr. Roybal.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Offer to Sell real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, being Tract 2, Hildreth Subdivision,
a portion of the S½ and S½NW¼ of Section 16, T. 14 N., R. 67 W., of the 6  P.M., Laramie County,th
Wyoming, consisting of five (5) acres, more or less, and having an appraised value of $62,500.00, to
the United States of America, for and on behalf of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to be used for
the establishment of a National Veterans Cemetery.  Mr. Brown advised this item was reviewed under
other items for the agenda at the June 20, 2016 Finance Committee meeting, therefore provisions of
City Code Title II have been met.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Mr.
Brown moved to postpone to J uly 11, 2016, seconde d by Mr. Luna.  Motion to post pone carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  
[CA] Agreement for services between the City of Cheyenne and the Church of St. Mary, defining
the responsibilities for ground maintenance, operations, and Office Administrative services for the
Church at Olivet Cemetery.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6521)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
shelter services.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to amend
by substitute, seconded by Mr. Luna.  I t was advised the substitute incorporates funding amount
changes due to an approved amendment to the FY2017 budget ordinance.  Motion to amend carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  (#6522)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for animal
control services.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to amend
by substitute, seconded by Ms. Williams.  It was advised the substitute incorporates funding amount
changes due to an approved amendment to the FY2017 budget ordinance.  Motion to amend carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  (#6523)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for use of
the Cheyenne Civic Center for the 2016 - 2017 Concert Season. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#6524)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra  for use of
the Cheyenne Civic Center for Youth Education Concerts. Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded
by Ms. Wi lliams.  Mr. Brow n moved to amend by  substitute, seconded by Ms. Wi lliams.  It was
advised the substitute incorporates funding amount changes due to an approved amendment to the
FY2017 budget ordinance.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.  (#6525)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Davis & Cannon, LLP, to provide civil legal
services as the Interim City Attorney.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6526)
[CA] Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie County
for revenues derived from the one per cent Sales Tax years 2011 thru 2014.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $183,500.00).  (#6527)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental of Wyoming, for dental benefits
plan for city employees.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6528)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and  Laramie
County, Wyoming, to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College,
City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to the City -- referred to
Finance Committee.
 
Project Development and Administration Agreement for a SkyPath from the Jack R. Spiker
Downtown Parking  Structure to Capitol A venue, betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Che yenne
Development Partners LLC, the Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, and the Greater Cheyenne
Foundation -- referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown advised this item was reviewed under other
items for the agenda at the Finance Committee meeting, therefore provisions of City Code Title II have
been met.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Royal.  Mr. Shanor declared a conflict of
interest and advised he would be abstaining from this agenda item and the next two items due to his
professional relationship with SLIB and vacated Council Chambers. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers with the exception of Ms. Williams
voting “no”.  (#6529)
Access Agreement for the SkyPath from the Jack R. Spiker Downtown Parking Structure to
Capitol Avenue, between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Development Partners LLC  -- referred
to Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown advised this item was reviewed under other items for the agenda
at the Finance Committee meeting, therefore provisions of City Code Title II have been met.  Mr.
Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  (Mr. Shanor previously declared a conflict of
interest.)  M otion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”.  (#6530)
Operations and Maintenance Agreement for the SkyPath from the Jack R. Spiker Downtown
Parking Structure to Capitol Avenue, between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Development Partners
LLC, and the Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce -- referred to Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown
advised this item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the Finance Committee meeting,
therefore provisions of City Code Title II have been met.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by
Mr. Roybal.  (Mr. Shanor previously declared a conflict of interest.)  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present in Council Chambers. Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor
returned to Council Chambers.  (#6531)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and  Safe Harbor, a Children’s Justice Center,  to
provide a safe and supportive environment for abused and neglected children City -- referred to
Finance Committee.  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness Center, Inc., Alcohol Receiving
Center, to provide mental health and substance abuse services City -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide services
as described in the Older Americans Act of 1965 as amended City -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6440 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman
Corporation for the 19th Street Rehabilitation Project - Phase II (2011 - 2014, 2015 - 2018 1% Sales
Tax, BOPU). Motion (per  Consent  Agenda) c arried (a pproved in a n amount not to ex ceed
$321,565.40). (#6440)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-18-16 f or a c ontract between the City  of Chey enne, Engineering
Department, and Pole Mountain Electric, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the LED Lighting Upgrade
Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (to accept the bid in an
amount not to exceed $99,007.08). (#6532)
[CA] Consideration of B id #E-32-16 for furnishing  two (2) ne w Cab &  Chassis with R ear Load
Refuse Col lection bod ies, 25 -Cubic Ya rd wi th T ippers fo r t he Sa nitation D ivision ( Solid Wa ste
Management).  M otion (per Consent Agenda) carried (to accept the bid from Peterbilt Wyoming,
Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $390,348.00).
[CA] Consideration o f Bid # S-20-16 f or a  c ontract b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne, Engineering
Department, and Kolbe Striping, Inc., Castle Rock, Colorado, for 2016 City of Cheyenne Pavement
Markings Project (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (to accept the
bid in an amount not to exceed $73,828.20). (#6533)
Consideration of Bid #S-21-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Park Division, and
Signature Underwriters, Lakewood, CO, for the Lake Absarraca and Sloans Lake Boat Docks project
(State Park Grant, 2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax).  Mr. Brown moved to reject the bid from Signature
Underwriters, Lakewood, CO in the amount of $295,417.00, seconded by Mr. Luna.  It was noted the
bid came in twice over the Engineers estimated cost. Motion to reject the bid carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-34-16 for furnishing two (2) new Ten -Yard Tandem Dump Trucks
with Spreader and Snowplow for  the City ’s Street &  Alley Division (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Ta x).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $429,208.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-33-16 for furnishing one new 2017 stake bed truck for the Sanitation
Division (Solid Waste Management) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Consideration  of Bid #S-6-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks & Recreation
Department, and Reiman Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Lake Minnehaha Phase 2 Project
(State Loan & Investment Board) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration  of Bid #S-24-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Leisure Services
Division, and Becker Arena Products, Inc., Savage, Minnesota, for the flooring at the Ice and Events
Center Project (Recreation Programs funding) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #S-19-16 for a  contract between the City  of Chey enne, Engineering
Department, and Mec hanical Systems, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, fo r the Dry Creek Crossing  at
Campstool Road (rebid) Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of Davis & Cannon, LLP, as interim City Attorney. Mr. Shanor moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee).  
Announcement of Re-Appointment of Kimberley Withers to the Cheyenne/Laramie County
Economic Development Joint Powers Board, to be confirmed July 11, 2016.
Announcement that due to the July 4th Holiday, regularly scheduled City Council Committee
meetings will instead be held in the Municipal Building, Room 122, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming,  as follows: Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, July 5, 2016 at 11:00 a.m. and Public
Services Committee will meet Wednesday, July 6, 2016 at Noon. 
Under other business, Mr. White recognized the Parks and Recreation Director, Rick Parish and
city staff for their outstanding work in organizing the Superday event that took place on June 25, 2016.
Mayor Kaysen announced this meeting was City Attorney Dan White’s final meeting, as he was
leaving employment with the city, and recognized him for his superlative and exceptional service to the
community, his integrity, ethics and respect for the law and citizens during his tenure as city attorney
the past seven and half years. 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially
adjourned at 9:09 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 
 Kristy B. Anderson, CMC 
 Deputy City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 7, 2016