MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-07-11 | CLIP_ID: 541 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 541

  R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
July 11, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Jeff White and Annette Williams. Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and J.
Mark Stewart, representing Davis and Cannon, LLP, Interim City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance
was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal se quence on  the  a genda.  M r. Sha nor d eclared a  c onflict of  int erest d ue to a bu siness
relationship i nvolving the Wyoming State L oan and I nvestment Boa rd (Consent Ag enda Item
#23(b)), and vacated Council Ch ambers.  M r. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items,
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
in C ouncil Ch ambers.  F ollowing a nnouncement o f t he vo te, M r. Sha nor r eturned to Cou ncil
Chambers.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 27, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Luna moved to appr ove payment of vouche rs as pre sented, seconded by Mr. White.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map amendment, Sectionrd
5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Cheyenne Unified
Development Code, by changing the zoning classification from LI-Light Industrial District to MUB-
Mixed Use Business Emphasis District for a parcel of land situated at the south 70 feet of the west
52.6 feet of Lot 5, Block 274, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as 1022 W. 20th
Street (located at the northeast corner of Ames Avenue and W. 20th Street).  Reporting for Public
Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve  on thi rd and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4143)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - A mending Section 10.64.040, Stopping, Standing a ndrd
Parking of Buses and Taxicabs Regulated, of Chapter 10.64, Loading and Unloading, of Title 10,
Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body. (#4144)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending Section 8.56.050, Motor Vehicle Mufflers, ofrd
Chapter 8.56, Noise Control, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Mayor Kaysen clarified the purpose of the ordinance involves exhaust and smoke emissions and not
the level of noise generated by any type of vehicle.   Commenting on the proposed ordinance were:
Joshua Shuck, Rick Coppinger, and Andy Vehar and Jeannie Spraker, co-owners, Big Al’s Auto &
Exhaust.  T opics presented included the definition and measurement of excessive smoke; EPA
guidelines; “chipping” of engines and fuel management, and suggestion of amending Title 10 of City
Code instead of the proposed ordinance.  Upon inquiry, Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department,
advised the amendment dealing with excessive smoke is the same a s state statute, and e xplained
generally what scenarios might be interpreted as excessive smoke.   Dr. Rinne moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson. Comments followed on voting the ordinance down
to allow additional time to review the topic further.  Motion failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of
the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Repealing Various Sections of Chapter 10.20, Trafficrd
Control Devices, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Dr. Rinne moved to amend
by substitute, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  It was noted the substitute removes a separate reference to
play streets in Section 10.04.080.  Comments followed on concern with removing mayoral authority,
and processes currently in p lace to c lose streets.  Mo tion to amend carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. L una, Mr. Shanor and Mayor Kaysen
voting “no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
with the exception of Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Mayor Kaysen voting “no”. (#4145)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending Section 8.52.040, Distribution of Handbills inrd
Public Places, of Chapter 8.52, Handbills, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of
Cheyenne, Wy oming.  B oyd Wigg am, Wy oming L iberty Group, spoke in opposition to the
ordinance, referencing second amendment rights f or freedom of speech, and stated p rovisions
involving littering are contained elsewhere in City Code.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and
final re ading, seconde d by Mr. Roy bal.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” - - all member s of the
governing body. (#4146)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lot 11, Blockrd
4, Homestead Addition First Filing Replat, and portions of: Section 10, the E½ of Section 4, the W½
of Section 3, the W½E½ of Section 3; and all of the S½SW¼ of Section 11, T.13N., R.66W., 6th
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. College Drive, and at the NW,
SW, SE corners of the intersection of I-80 and College Drive).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. (#4147)
ORDINANCE -  3  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1, Zoning Ma p A mendments,rd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial, County A-2
Agricultural, and County PUD to P P ublic and AG Agricultural for Lot 11, Block 4, H omestead
Addition First Filing Replat, and portions of: Section 10, the E½ of Section 4, the W½ of Section
3, the W½E½ of Section 3; and all of the S½SW¼ of Section 11, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. College Drive, and at the NW, SW, SE corners
of the intersection of I -80 and Colleg e Drive).  Dr . Rinne moved to approve  on third and final
reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carri ed.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the g overning
body. (#4148)
 
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1,  Z oning Map Amendments,rd
Section 5.1.2,  Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3,  Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential -
Established and MR-2 Medium Density Residential - Developing to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential
- High Density for Lots 24-28, Block 4, South Park Estates, 2nd Filing, and Lots 7-12, Block 15,
Roberts Place, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Arkel Way, north of W. 3rd
Street).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4149)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending Section 9.08.080, Indecent Exposure, of Chapternd
9.08, Offenses Against Public Peace and Decency, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by
Mr. Johnson.  Comments followed regarding the proposed change to remove the phrase “indecently
dressed”; that a more clear definition of indecent exposure is provided elsewhere in City Code, and
that, pursuant to discussion with the City’s municipal court prosecutors, the proposed amendment
would pose no real problem.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LI-Light Industrial and CB-Community
Business to MUB- Mixed Use  Business Empha sis for a por tion of L ot 1, Block 1, B ack 40
Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Old Happy Jack Road and West Lincolnway) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,ST
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential-
Established to NR-2 Neig hborhood Residential - Me dium Density for a  portion of the SE¼ of
Section 6, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between W. Fox Farm Road and
I-80, west of Walterscheid B oulevard) -- referred to Public Service s Committee (sponsor - - Dr.
Rinne).
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - A mending, repealing and re-creating various sec tionsST
within Chapter 8.60, Nuisances, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne,
Wyoming -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Declaring as surplus a City-owned property located at 1900 East 18th
Street, legally described as all of Lot 13, Block 3, Rayor Addition, together with improvements
thereon, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and authorizing the City’s Purchasing Manager to
proceed with the bidding process to dispose of the property pursuant  to Wyo. Stat. §15-1-112(a) --
referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Frontier
Mall, 4th Filing, a replat of a portion of Lots 1 and 8, Block 1, Frontier Mall, 3rd Filing, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to Dell Range Boulevard, west of Dr iftwood Drive) --
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropr iating the Fiscal Year 2017 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
Offer t o Se ll r eal pr operty ow ned b y the  City  of  Che yenne, being Tr act 2,  Hi ldreth
Subdivision, a portion of the S½ and S½NW¼ of Section 16, T. 14 N., R. 67 W., of the 6  P.M.,th
Laramie County, Wyoming, consisting of five (5) acres, more or less, and having an appraised value
of $62,500.00, to the United States of Amer ica, for and on behalf of the Department of Veterans
Affairs, to be used for the establishment of a National Veterans Cemetery.  Reporting for Finance
Committee, Mr. Brown moved to withdraw the item from the agenda at the request of staff, seconded
by Mr. L una.  Brief comment was made  regarding continuing disc ussions between the  parties
involved to finalize provi sions of the sale.  Motion ca rried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Divisi on, and
Laramie County, Wyoming, to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community
College, City/County Health Department, and an area of Laramie County adjacent to the City.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6536)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor, a Children’s Justice Center, to
provide a safe and supportive environment for abused and neglected children.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $12,000.00). (#6537)  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness Center, Inc., Alcohol Receiving
Center, to provide mental health and substance abuse services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $85,000.00). (#6538) 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide services
as described in the Older Americans Act of 1965 as amended.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(amount not to exceed $45,000.00). (#6539) 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-33-16 for furnishing one new 2017 stake bed truck for the Sanitation
Division (Solid Waste Management).  Motion (pe r Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from
Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $46,204.00).
[CA] Consideration of  B id # S-6-16 fo r a  c ontract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Department, and Reiman Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Lake Minnehaha
Phase 2 Project (State Loan & Investment Board).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $2,354,545.12). (#6540)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-24-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Leisure Services
Division, and Becker Arena Products, Inc., Savage, Minnesota, for the flooring at the Ice and Events
Center Project (Recreation Programs funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid
in an amount not to exceed $118,796.59). (#6541)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-19-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Mechanical Systems, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Dry Creek Crossing at
Campstool Road (rebid) Project (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried
(accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $210,583.00). (#6542)
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for J Aldana LLC
d/b/a El Poblano Mex ican Restaurant, 1720 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Re-Appointment o f K imberley With ers to t he Che yenne/Laramie Co unty Ec onomic
Development Joi nt P owers Board.  Mr. C ook  mo ved to approve, seconded by Ms. Willi ams.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor
Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee). 
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Richard L. Leslie, to the Mayor’s Council
for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed July 25, 2016.
Announcement was made of the Appointment of  James D. Voeller, Interim City Engineer,
to be confirmed July 25, 2016. 
Announcement was made of the Re-appointments of Dean A. Meyer, Scott A. Thomas and
Robin Bocanegra to the Public Transit Advisory Board, to be confirmed July 25, 2016. 
Under other business, Ms. Williams requested an update on the round-about landscaping and
beautification near South High School wher e a sc ulpture was recently placed.  May or Kaysen
provided an update and stated a formal dedication of the sculpture will be held after school is back
in session this fall.
There being no further business to c ome before the governing body, the m eeting was
officially adjourned at 6:33 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 July 20, 2016