MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-07-25 | CLIP_ID: 542 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 542

  R ECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
July 25, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.
Absent: Bryan Cook, Dr. Mark Rinne and Annette Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City
Clerk, and Amanda Esch, representing Davis and Cannon, LLP, Interim City Attorney.  The pledge
of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by
Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Mr. Shanor voting “no”.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Bod y on July 11, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr.
Luna moved to divide the question to allow for separate action on a voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services, seconded by Mr. White.  Moti on carried.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present.  Mr. Br own declared a conflict of interest  (business interest in vouche r
payable to  Ameri-Tech H VAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  M r. Luna moved to
approve the voucher payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services in the amount of $41,028.34, seconded
by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in
Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown returned to Council Chambers.
Mr. Luna moved to divide the question to allow for separate action on a voucher payable to High
Country Harley-Davidson, Cheyenne, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.  Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest
in voucher payable to High Country Harley-Davidson, Cheyenne) and vacated Council Chambers.
Mr. Luna moved to approve the voucher payable to High Country Harley-Davidson, Cheyenne, in
the amount of $3,470.73, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present in Council C hambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr .
Roybal returned to Council Chambers.  Main motion to approve payment of vouchers, excluding the
two vouchers previously approved for Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and High Country Harley-
Davidson, Cheyenne, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending Section 9.08.080, Indecent Exposure, of Chapterrd
9.08, Offenses Against Public Peace and Decency, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Johnson moved
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#4150)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LI-Light Industrial and CB-Community
Business to MUB- Mixed Use  Business Empha sis for a por tion of L ot 1, Block 1, B ack 40
Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Old Happy Jack Road and West Lincolnway).
Mr. Johnson moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential-
Established to NR-2 Neig hborhood Residential - Me dium Density for a  portion of the SE¼ of
Section 6, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between W. Fox Farm Road and
I-80, west of Walterscheid Boulevard).  Mr. Johnson moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending, repealing and re-creating various sections withinnd
Chapter 8.60, Nuisa nces, of Title 8, Hea lth and Safety , of the Code of the  City of Chey enne,
Wyoming.  Mr. Johnson moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Inquiry was
made r egarding how many  proper ty owner s might be a ffected due to proposed new  wording
contained in Section 8.60.090 (A), Snow, ice or slush as a nuisance, that states “Every person who
owns or occupies any property abutting a right-of-way that contains a sidewalk, any portion of which
sidewalk is located within ten (10) feet of any boundary of the property, shall, within a twenty-four
(24) hour period after a snowfall, remove snow, ice and slush from each such sidewalk and maintain
each such sidewalk free of the same”.  Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, stated he was aware
of one pa rticular area and that other areas may surface in the f uture.  Upon inquiry  on whether
notification to aff ected proper ty owner s would be provided, O fficer Emmet L usher, Code
Enforcement, Police Department, explained the notification process that would be utilized.  In
response to query on whether there was a method to compile an inventory and map areas that may
be a ffected b y the  wo rding c hange, M ayor Ka ysen a dvised he w ill c ommunicate wi th C ity
Engineering/GIS staff to ascertain whether an inventory/map could be generated prior to the next
Public Services Committee meeting.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present.
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Declaring as surplus a City-owned property located at 1900 East 18th
Street, legally described as all of Lot 13, Block 3, Rayor Addition, together with improvements
thereon, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and authorizing the City’s Purchasing Manager to
proceed with the bidding process to dispose of the property pursuant  to Wyo. Stat. §15-1-112.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5787) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Frontier
Mall, 4th Filing, a replat of a portion of Lots 1 and 8, Block 1, Frontier Mall, 3rd Filing, Cheyenne,
Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to Dell Ra nge Boulevard, west of Dr iftwood Drive).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5788) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fisca l Year 2017 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5789) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for USI Plaza,
a portion of the SE¼ of Section 6, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between
W. Fox  Fa rm Road and I -80, we st of Walterschei d Boule vard) -- r eferred to Publi c Servic es
Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for Police Ser vices at various schools and school-related events for the 2016-2017
school year -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HDR, Inc. for the Prairie
Avenue and Frontier Mall Drive Intersection Improvement Project (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax,
Federal Highway Funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6250 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and I.T. Refresh, Ft. Collins, Colorado, to extend the contract one additional two
year period for electronic recycling services (Solid Waste Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-23-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the 19th Street Rehabilitation Phase
III Project (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-1-17 for furnishing one new 2017 cab and chassis with 40-yard front
loader refuse collection body for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
Appointment of  James D. Voeller, Interim City Engineer.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Brown.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present
with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee). 
Appointment of Richard L. Leslie, to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities.  Mr.
White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the g overning body present with the exception of May or Kaysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointee). 
Re-appointments of Dean A. Meyer, Scott A. Thomas and Robin Bocanegra to the Public
Transit Advisory Board.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who
did not vote (Mayoral appointees). 
Announcement was made of the Re-appointments of Rick Robinson, Gay VanHorn, Danny
Glick and Kiersti Willms to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board,
to be confirmed August 8, 2016. 
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Natalie Kuhlmann, Barbara Sandick and
Richard A. Glantz Jr. to the Historic Preservation Board, to be confirmed August 8, 2016.   
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 8, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive comments and input on
the proposed sale of City-owned surplus real property and improvements located at 2020 Capitol
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, the former headquarters of the Cheyenne Police Department, legally
described as L ots 1 and 2, Bloc k 266, Orig inal City, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to The  Diocese of
Cheyenne, a Wyoming non-profit corporation, for economic development purposes and in exchange
for consideration in the amount of $1,090,000.00. 
Under o ther b usiness, Mr . Joh nson a dvised, a ccording to d iscussion wi th B ob F echt,
Director, Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Control, that the recently approved chicken ordinance has, thus
far, had minimal impact on Animal Shelter operations.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore t he governing body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:18 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 August 1, 2016