MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-08-08 | CLIP_ID: 543 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 543

   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
August 8, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk, and
Mark Stewart, representing Davis and Cannon, LLP, Interim City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance
was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal, items #11 and 16 (b) were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr.
Shanor moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by  Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on J uly 25, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Shanor.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input on the proposed sale
of City-owned surplus real property and improvements located at 2020 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, the former headquarters of the Cheyenne Police Department, legally  described as Lots
1 and 2, Block 266, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to The Diocese of Cheyenne, a Wyoming
non-profit corporation, for economic development purposes and in exchange for consideration in the
amount of $1,090,000.00.  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty Group, and Jim Weaver, real estate
agent, #1 Properties, expressed concerns with the current process being utilized to sell the property
and encouraged consideration be given to allowing possible other interested parties the opportunity
to submit a proposal or bid.  Topics presented included: Process transparency; utilizing a request for
proposals or bid process through advertisement to provide public notification of the intent to sell the
property; providing other potential interested investors an opportunity to purchase the property;
downtown redevelopment and revitalization; proposed future use of property and assessment or non-
assessment of property tax; administrative process and communications resulting in the submission
of the resolution on the current agenda declaring the property surplus and authorizing the sale to The
Diocese of Cheyenne, and delaying action on the resolution (affiliated with the public hearing) to
allow other interested parties to submit offers of interest.  P aul Hickey, attorney with Hickey &
Evans law firm, repr esenting The Dioc ese of  Chey enne, a dvised The Dioc ese pr ovides
administrative services and functions for 36 parishes in Wyoming and due to growth more office
space is needed which is why it expressed an interest in acquiring the former Police Department
building.  He reviewed voter approval for the new Public Safety Building and community awareness
that two buildings would not be needed when the new building was constructed; reviewed the history
of The Diocese’s ownership of properties in the Capitol Avenue area, and its commitment to t he
community.  Father Carl Gallinger, pastor of St. Joseph’s Catholic Church and serving as Bishop of
The Diocese as the Vicar General, spoke about their current administrative location and that staff
growth has made  it necessa ry to acquire  a lar ger structure, noting their desire to re main in the
downtown a rea.  U pon in quiry du ring pu blic c omments, F ather G allinger a dvised, if  the  City
property were acquired, The Diocese plans to retain ownership of their current property on Capitol
Avenue.  Donald James Perrott Macne il submitted a handout ( on file with City  Clerk’s off ice)
containing information on his family’s ancestry; commented on property ownership, and stated the
church would be a good conservator of the property.  Discussion followed on the sequence of events
involving The Diocese’s contact with the City expressing their interest in the property and placement
of the Resolution on the meeting agenda, and whether any other interested buyers could submit an
offer to purchase at this time.  Upon inquiry, Mark Stewart, representing Davis and Cannon, LLP,
Interim City Attorney, advised he would need to conduct research on the issue of whether additional
interested parties can submit an offer to purchase at this point in the process.  There being no further
comments and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE -  3  RE ADING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1, Zoning Ma p A mendments,rd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LI-Light Industrial and CB-Community
Business to MUB- Mixed Use  Business Empha sis for a por tion of L ot 1, Block 1, B ack 40
Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Old Happy Jack Road and West Lincolnway).
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4151)
ORDINANCE -  3  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1, Zoning Map Ame ndments,rd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium-Density Residential-
Established to NR-2 Neig hborhood Residential - Me dium Density for a  portion of the SE¼ of
Section 6, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between W. Fox Farm Road and
I-80, west of Walterscheid Boulevard).  Donald James Perrott Macneil spoke in opposition to any
zone changes involving property owned by the Union Pacific or himself.  D r. Rinne moved to
approve on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Roy bal.  Upon inquiry  regarding potential
drainage and noise issues, Mayor Kaysen advised a site plan has not yet been submitted so nothing
definitive is known at this time regarding a drainage analysis, and that the state owns the I-80 and
right-of-way areas and any noise/sound barrier issues would be need to be addressed with state
involvement.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4152)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending, repealing and re-creating various sections withinrd
Chapter 8.60, Nuisa nces, of Title 8, Hea lth and S afety, of the Code of the  City of Chey enne,
Wyoming.  Voicing concerns and objections to the ordinance section involving removal of snow,
ice and slush on sidewalks were: Chuck West, who submitted a handout (on file with City Clerk’s
office) outlining his objections;  Frank Cole, United Western Corpora tion, who also submitt ed a
handout (on file with City Clerk’s office) of pictures of street views within the metro area of the City
of Denver, CO; Randy Newman and Tom Long.  Topics discussed included: Ordinance requirements
regarding current and proposed c hanges to the sec tion regarding property owner responsibilities
involving snow, ice or slush removal on sidewalks; City snow plow operations contributing to the
placement of snow, ice or slush on sidewalks affecting timely removal from sidewalks by residents;
provisions involving an appeal process through the Board of Adjustment; new ordinance requirement
regarding resident responsibilities for snow, ice or slush removal within ten feet of any boundary of
their property and effect on certain property owners; examples of snow clean-up scenarios within
Denver, CO as c onducted by  the City  of De nver; be autification and landsca ping ne eds along
Converse Av enue no rth o f P ershing B lvd.; C ity sn ow re moval op erations involving Con verse
Avenue ballfield parking lots; Vandehei Avenue residential area involving green belt/sidewalks on
the north side vs. no green belt on the south side of the street and property owner’s responsibilities;
properties abutting a right-of-way that contains a sidewalk; whether notices to property owners who
would be affected by the proposed ordinance change of the ten foot boundary had been issued, and
potential legal liability.  Emmett Lusher, Cheyenne Police Department, Code Enforcement, clarified
that snow removal nuisances are excluded from the appeals process, and that he issues notices for
all nuisance violations.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Shanor.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute (dated August 1, 2016), seconded by Mr. Roybal.
Dr. Rinne explained the proposed substitute removes the reference of the 10 foot requirement.  Mr.
Long stated his belief the proposed substitute does not fix the problem of abutting right-of-way
sidewalk areas regardless of the width.  Discussion followed on possible further amendments to the
ordinance and property owner responsibility involving abandoned properties.  Upon inquiry, Mayor
Kaysen provided information on the process of abating abandoned properties.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams
voting “no”.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by striking new Section 8.60.090 (A) wording and
replacing it with  existing Section (A) wording.  Discussion followed on purpose of the amendment;
“tweaking” Section (A) wording in the future if needed, and whether there was any issue for Officer
Lusher with the proposed amendment.  Upon inquiry, Officer Lusher explained the only real issue
with the amendment is that those sidewalks (as referenced in the new Section (A) wording) would
not be addressed, and advised approximately 20 complaints are received yearly with 1 or 2 instances
requiring abatement.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
with the exception of Mr.  Johnson voting “no”.  Main motion as twice a mended carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4153)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for USI Plaza,
a portion of the SE¼ of Section 6, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between
W. Fox Farm Road and I-80, west of Walterscheid Boulevard.  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded
by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne
explained that wording on the plat map and documentation related to and contained in the resolution
must be consistent, according to County filing requirements, and the substitute addresses the issue.
Motion to amend car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as
amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5790)
[CA] RESOLUTION - D eclaring as surplus a City -owned pro perty located a t 2020 Capitol
Avenue, legally  described as Lots 1 and 2, Block 266, Original City, together with improvements
thereon, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and author izing the sale of  said parc el to The
Diocese of Cheyenne, a Wyoming non-profit corporation, pursuant to W.S. § 15-1-112(b)(i)(D), to
benefit the economic development of the municipality -- referred to Finance Committee (sponsors --
Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. White and Mayor Kaysen). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Pointe
Plaza 4  Filing , a re plat of L ot 5 Block 2 of  “Pointe Plaza’ located the  north one-ha lf of theth
southwest one-qua rter of  Section 17, Township 14 Nor th, Rang e 66 West of the 6  Principalth
Meridian, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Powderhouse Road and
Gardenia Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor -- Dr. Rinne). [City Clerk note:
Clerical correction made to agenda entitlement wording]
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for South
Park Estates, 9th Filing, for all of Lots 24-28, Block 4, South Park Estates, 2nd Filing, and all of Lots
7-12, Block 15, Roberts Place No. 1, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of
and adjacent to Ar kel Way, north of West 3rd Street) - - referred to Public Service s Committee
(sponsor -- Dr. Rinne). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Federal Mineral Royalty Capital Construction
Account Grant Application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of completing 26  Street Interceptor Project -- referred toth
Finance Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No.1 for Police Ser vices at various schools and school-related events for the 2016-2017
school y ear.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) ca rried (revenue to the City  in the amount of
$466,379.90). (#6551)
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HDR, Inc. for the Prairie
Avenue and Frontier Mall Drive Intersection Improvement Project (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax,
Federal Highway Funds).  Gary Grigsby, Western Research and Development, referenced a letter he
had previously submitted to members of the governing body; expressed concerns and opposition to
the City’s selection process; commente d on the lac k of opportunity for his business to rec eive
approval to provide professional services, and requested the agenda item not be approved.  He shared
information on his company’s qualifications and services provided, including affiliated professional
service providers, and expressed his opinion that the process to select a business for a project is
flawed.  Frank Cole stated the project, as well as the project approved a few weeks ago, is important
to property Sections 16 and 20 and requested he be informed and involved to address drainage issues
on both projects.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve in an amount not
to exceed $315,128.95, sec onded by Mr. L una.  Upon inquiry , Nathan Beauheim, Engineering
Department, provided infor mation on the team eva luation and interview  proc ess involving
proposals/bids that result in a recommendation to the governing body for a firm to receive project
work, and, upon inquiry, confirmed he would be willing to visit with Mr. Grigsby about strength and
weaknesses of the proposal he submitted for the project.  Pursuant to further inquiry, Mr. Beauheim
clarified a roundabout intersection is planned for the project area and  explained the other primary
option was to construct traffic signals.  He provided information on the cost of the roundabout vs.
traffic signals; roundabout data studies reflecting a reduction in the number of collisions and injuries
vs. traffic signals which may not reduce the number of collisons/injuries; geometric issues involving
the intersection location and the need to reconfigure the numerous lanes leading into the intersection,
and collision data involving existing single lane roundabouts in Cheyenne.  Discussion followed on
the pros and cons of roundabouts; difference in c ost of a roundabout and traffic control lights;
reducing approaching lane sizes; previous approval of the intersection project involving a roundabout
by the governing body, and funding sources.  Brandon Gebhart, HDR, Inc., provided information on
HDR staff and affiliated project team qualifications and location of HDR offices in Wyoming, and,
upon inquiry during further discussion, advised the firm has built roundabouts all across the country.
Further discussion followed on t he City’s bid selec tion process a nd the nee d for f urther review.
Mayor Kaysen commented on the selection review, criteria and critique process utilized by staff.
Motion carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms.
Williams and Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#6552)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County Community
Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth at Johnson
Junior Hig h School (21  Century Communi ty Learning Ce nters Cohort Eig ht Grant Funds) --st
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Software Subscription Agr eement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Special Eve nts and
Services Division, and T2 Systems for parking enforcement software and hosting services -- referred
to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement b etween th e City  of  Che yenne, O ffice of  Yo uth Al ternatives, a nd L aramie
County, Wyoming, for juvenile probation services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Grant Agreement to the City  of Ch eyenne, county of L aramie, and Chey enne Regional
Airport Board, from the United States of America for the construction of a Commercial Terminal
Building at the Cheyenne Regional Airport/Jerry Olson Field -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Grant Agreement to the City of Chey enne, county of L aramie, and Chey enne Regional
Airport Board, from the United States of America for the construction of a Commercial Terminal
Apron at the Cheyenne Regional Airport/Jerry Olson Field -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6250 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and I.T. Refresh, Ft. Collins, Colorado, to extend the contract one additional two
year period for electronic recycling services (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (amount not to exceed $160,000.00). (#6250)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-23-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the 19th Street Rehabilitation Phase
III Project (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed
$1,213,042.15). (#6553)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-1-17 for furnishing one new 2017 cab and chassis with 40-yard front
loader refuse collection body for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, in an amount not to
exceed $276,654.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-22-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction
Division, Reiman Corporation and STC Const ruction Company Inc., a joint venture, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, for the F iscal Year 2016 City  Overlay Part 3 Project (2015 -  2018 1% Sales Ta x) --
referred to Finance Committee. 
Re-appointments of Rick Robinson, Gay VanHorn, Danny Glick and Kiersti Willms to the
Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board.  Mr. Cook moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with
the exception of Mr. Johnson vot ing “ no”, and Ma yor Ka ysen who did not vote (May oral
appointees).
Appointments of Natalie K uhlmann, Barbara Sandick and Richard A. G lantz J r. to the
Historic Preservation Board.  Mr. Cook moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not
vote (Mayoral appointees).   
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting was
officially adjourned at 7:50 p.m.
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
August 18, 2016