MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-08-22 | CLIP_ID: 545 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 545

  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
August 22, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk, and
Mark Stewart, representing Davis and Cannon, LLP, Interim City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance
was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to support received by
Ms. Williams and Mr. Luna, agenda item #7 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna 
moved to approve  remaining Consent Ag enda items, sec onded by Mr. White.  Moti on carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 22, 2016.  M otion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Ameri-Tech
HVAC Services) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers
as presented, seconded by Mr. J ohnson.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following  announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown
returned to Council Chambers.
RESOLUTION - D eclaring as surplus a City -owned proper ty located at 2020 Capitol
Avenue, legally  described as Lots 1 and 2, Block 266, Original City, together with improvements
thereon, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and authorizing the sale of sa id parcel to The
Diocese of Cheyenne, a Wyoming non-profit corporation, pursuant to W.S. § 15-1-112(b)(i)(D), to
benefit the economic de velopment of the municipality.  Paul Hickey , attorney representing The
Diocese of Cheyenne, spoke in favor of the resolution and discussed legal authority provided in W.S.
§ 15-1-112 which sets forth the manner of disposing of municipal property without advertising and
calling for bids under  certain circumstances.  B ishop Paul Etienne, The Dioc ese of Cheyenne,
provided information on the purpose of seeking ownership of the property, and proposed use of the
property and extended services that will be provided by the Diocese on a state-wide basis if they are
able to expand their administrative office space.  Speaking in favor of the sale of the property to the
Diocese we re: L ori Sc hoene, American N ational B ank; D avid Yo ung, We stern Ec osystems
Technology, Inc.; Greg Jones, Jonah Bank; Da vid Johnson; Peggy Hearne; Bill Edwards, local
developer; Tom Jacobson, local realtor; Gay Woodhouse and Randy Byers, architect, The Design
Studio, Inc. (TDSI).  Topics presented included:  Public awareness that building would be vacated
upon completion of the new Public Safety Center, media coverage and transparency; voter approval
to construct a new Public Safety Center; the Diocese’s qualifications as a buyer, plans involving
economic development, both local and state-wide, and utilization of current Diocese property if the
City-owned property was acquired; adjacent property acquired by the Diocese for off-street parking;
Diocese’s history  of re sponsible proper ty owner ship in the downtown are a; opposition to t he
possibility that the building may remain vacant for some time, or the scenario of a non-responsive
property o wner w ho m ay n ot u tilize o r i mprove t he p roperty; City’s fudiciary r esponsibility;
downtown development; good faith negotiations between the Diocese and City; public knowledge
of the Diocese’s cash offer, and financial capability of the Dioc ese to remodel and refurbish the
building. Margaret Shaw expressed support for the building to not remain vacant and to provide an
opportunity for others to bid on the property, and Rosalie Regensberg commented on media coverage
surrounding the proposed sale and suggested publicizing the state statute provisions authorizing the
sale for public awareness.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Discussion included the following topics: Transparency and the process resulting in
the agenda item; state statute requirements involving declaring the property as surplus and selling
it without advertising for bids; other City-owned properties; prior City-owned properties that have
been sold or transferred in ownership; property appraisal utilized during negotiations vs. awareness
that a more  rec ent appra isal had bee n rec eived with a hig her e stimated valuation; Diocese ’s
communication involving their  interest in ac quiring the property ; provisions contained in the
proposed Agreement to Sell and Purchase  Real Proper ty involving litiga tion with L ong
Technologies, which has since been settled, and closing costs; request for proposals; non acceptance
of the Diocese’s offer and advertising the property for sale through sealed bid procedures; concerns
with Council le adership not sharing  information with other Council member s; resolution
sponsorship, and bringing the Diocese’s offer before the governing body for a decision on whether
to accept its offer to purchase.  During discussion and upon inquiry, Mark Stewart, David & Cannon,
LLP, I nterim City  Attorney , advised that if the sa le is not approved, the  g overning body  can
determine under the statute what p rocess it wishes to utilize to dispose of the pr operty, and Sara
Vasquez, Purchasing Manager, provided information she was aware of involving declaring City
properties as surplus and selling of same.  Also during discussion, and with no objection raised by
City Council members, Mayor Kaysen provided information on the Diocese’s contact with him
regarding their interest in the property; another contact inquiring about the property with no follow-
up communication received; time frame involved; negotiations; status of contents of the building;
satisfaction of Long Technologies litigation; another proposal to purchase received after the public
hearing was held; listing of other City-owned properties, and provisions contained in the sales and
purchase a greement per  questions r aised b y City  Cou ncil m embers.  D uring dis cussion, Ms.
Williams moved to amend Section 1.15 (b) , Closing Costs, consisti ng of the c urrent wording of
“Seller shall pay the pre mium owners’ title insuranc e policy and one ha lf of the c losing agent’s
closing fee.  Purchaser shall pay the other one half of closing agent’s closing fee” to instead remove
the Seller’s responsibility and insert “Seller shall sell as is”.  There being no second to the motion
and following brief explanation of shared closing costs on t ypical property transactions, whether
publicly or privately owned properties, Ms. Williams withdrew her motion.  During inquiries posed
and responded to by Ms. Vasquez, Mr. Brown raised a point of order that the inquiries wer e not
applicable to the motion on the floor with Mayor Kaysen ruling that the current discussion could
continue.  F ollowing discussion, motion failed.  Voting  “yes” -- Mayor Kaysen, Mr. Cook, Mr.
Roybal and Mr. Johnson.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. White
and Ms. Williams.
[CA] RESOLUTION -  Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Pointe
Plaza, 4  Filing, a re plat of Lot 5 Block 2 of  ‘Pointe Plaz a’ located in the north one-half  of theth
southwest one-quarter of Section 17, T ownship 14 North, Rang e 66 West of the 6   principalth
meridian, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Powderhouse Road and
Gardenia Drive).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried. (#5791)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for South
Park Estates, 9th Filing, for all of Lots 24-28, Block 4, South Park Estates, 2nd Filing, and all of Lots
7-12, Block 15, Roberts Place No. 1, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of
and adjacent to Arkel Way, north of West 3rd Street).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried.  (#5792)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing submission of a Federal Mineral Royalty Capital Construction
Account Grant Application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of completing 26  Street Interceptor Project.  Mr. Brownth
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute dated August 15,
2016, seconded by Mr. Luna.  It was advised the substitute increases the grant dollar amount being
requested due to a project cost update.  Mr. Shanor recused himself from voting due to affiliation
with the State L oan and Investment Board, and va cated Council Chambers.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Main
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers. (#5793)
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne concurs with
the application of the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming for an award
of Fiscal Year 2011-2012 Countywide Consensus B lock Grant Funding in the amount of four
thousand dollars ($4,000.00) for the Town of Albin’s Baseball Field Project  -- referred to Finance
Committee (sponsor -- Mr. Brown).  
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budg et of the Cit y of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 - - referred to F inance Committee
(sponsor -- Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Determining preferred City of Cheyenne Projects to be proposed to the 1%
Specific Purpose Sales Tax Committee for potential inclusion on the 1%  Specific Purpose Ballot
Proposition to be presented to qualified electors of Laramie County during the May 2, 2017 Special
Election -- referred to Committee of the Whole (sponsor -- Mr. Cook).
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County Community
Partnership, Inc., for academic and enrichment activities for at-risk school-age youth at Johnson
Junior High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Eight Grant Funds).  Motionst
(per consent agenda) carried. (#6555)
Software Subscri ption Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Spec ial Events and
Services Division, and T2 Systems for parking enforcement software and hosting services.  Steve
McDonald, Director, Special Events and Services, referenced a memo he submitted to governing
body members after the Finance Committee meeting which provided clarification on the topic and
the necessity of renewing the software to provide parking enforcement services.  Upon inquiry by
Gabriel Piña, Mr. McDonald explained that the proposed agreement had been negotiated from the
typical 3 year term to a 1 year term pending the outcome of the downtown parking study.  Mr. Brown
reported there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Brown moved
to approve, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Comments followed on the need for the software program
to continue enforcement operations; cost difference in reducing the contract term from 3 years to 1
year and confirmation that cost of the 1 year term would be $14,053.10, and the downtown parking
study.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#6556)
[CA] Agreement b etween t he C ity o f C heyenne, O ffice o f Y outh A lternatives, a nd L aramie
County, Wyoming, for juvenile probation services.  Motion (per consent agenda) carried (Revenue
to the City $48,000.00). (#6557)
[CA] Grant Agreement to the City  of Chey enne, County of L aramie, and Cheyenne Regional
Airport Board, from the United States of America for the construction of a Commercial Terminal
Building at the Cheyenne Regional Airport/Jerry Olson Field.  Motion (per consent agenda) carried.
(#6558)
[CA] Grant Agreement to the City  of Chey enne, County of L aramie, and Chey enne Regional
Airport Board, from the United States of America for the construction of a Commercial Terminal
Apron at the Cheyenne Regional Airport/Jerry Olson Field.  Motion (per consent agenda) carried.
(#6559)
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Wyoming Department of
Transportation for Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program Fiscal Year 2017 (Wyoming Department
of Transportation grant) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County
Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers B oard for Juvenile Accountability  and Enric hment
Program services -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]  Agreement b etween the City of  Che yenne, O ffice of  Yo uth Al ternatives, a nd Laramie
County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for crisis shelter services at the Juvenile
Service Center -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Addendum N o. 1  to  Co ntract N o. 6 471 b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne a nd CD W-
Government, LLC for purchase and installation services for security cameras for the George Cox and
Jack R. Spiker Downtown Parking Structures -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 6476 betwe en the City  of Chey enne,
Engineering D epartment, and Simon C ontractors, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to replenish the forc e
account for the Fiscal Year 2016 City Overlay Part 2 Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred
to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-22-16 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction
Division, Reiman Corporation and STC Const ruction Company Inc., a joint venture, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, for the Fiscal Year 2016 City Overlay Part 3 Project (2015- 2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion
(per consent agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $1,562,892.84). (#6560)
Appointment of Jeff White to the Downtown Development Authority Board.  Mr. Shanor
moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion ca rried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee). 
[CA] Annual Report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements made at the Airport
Golf Course as required by Lease Agreement -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 12, 2016 at 6:00 p.m.
in Cit y Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue , Chey enne, Wy oming, to dete rmine whe ther
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exists for the NW¼
of Section 12, T.13N., R.67W., of the 6th P.M., L aramie County , Wy oming, l ocated west of
Southwest Drive and north of Interstate 80.
Announcement was made that a calcutta, benefitting the Multiple Sclerosis Society, will be
held Thursda y, Aug ust 25, 2016 beg inning a t 7:00 p.m . at Uncle C harlie’s L ounge, 6001
Yellowstone Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the annual Uncle Charlie’s “DONE”
golf tournament (15% of proceeds to the Multiple Sclerosis Society).  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk,
advised that since the agenda item had been submitted, she received notification that the calcutta has
been cancelled. 
Announcement was made that due to the Labor Day Holiday on Monday, September 5, 2016,
the re gularly schedule d City  Council Finance Committee Meeting  will inst ead be  held in the
Municipal Building, Room 122, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, on Tuesday, September
6, 2016 at 1 1:00 a .m.  Ca rol Intlekofer, Ci ty Cl erk, n oted th ere w ill n ot b e a  Pu blic Service s
Committee meeting on September 7, 2016, as there are no items on the meeting agenda to be referred
to the committee.
Announcement was made of special City Council Committee of the Whole Meetings to be
held Wednesday, August 31, 2016 beginning at 5:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. and reconvening on Thursday
September 1, 2016 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, to  receive information regarding potential City projects for t he 1% Specific Purpose
Sales and Use Tax to be considered for placement on the ballot for the May 2, 2017 Special Election.
Under other business:
Mayor Kaysen noted, due to timeliness, an additional item needed to be introduced on the
agenda for referral to committee and requested the City Clerk read the following entitlement of the
item:  Contract Modification No. 1 to Professional Services Agreement No. 6552 between the City
of C heyenne a nd H DR, I nc. f or th e Pr airie A venue a nd F rontier M all D rive I ntersection
Improvement Project (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax, Federal Highway Funds) -- referred to Finance
Committee.
Ms. Williams cited multiple road closures in the south Cheyenne area due to construction
projects and expressed that residents have concerns involving an increase in t raffic and vehicle
speeds in the neighborhoods, and requested additional police presence to monitor the area, especially
due to the start up the upcoming school year.
There being n o f urther b usiness to  c ome b efore th e g overning b ody, th e me eting w as
officially adjourned at 7:42 p.m.
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
September 1, 2016