MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-09-26 | CLIP_ID: 550 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 550

  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
September 26, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk, and
Mark Stewart, representing Davis and Cannon, LLP, Interim City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance
was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Cook moved to approve , seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 12, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell
Chevrolet) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Cook moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen provided information available on
vouchers payable to the following:  Gabriel Roeder Smith Consultants & Actuaries (services for
actuarial post employment benefits); Reiman Corp., (West Lincolnway streetscape and landscaping);
S&J Signs, Inc. (traffic control/barricades for street work in Saddle Ridge).  Du ring com ments
regarding the West Lincolnway landscaping project, it was noted potential fund raising efforts by
the private sector ma y be conduc ted for a dditional funding f or improvements.  Motion car ried.
Voting “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present in Council Chambers.  Following
announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Repealing Section 9.12.090, Skateboards and Simi larND
Devices Prohibited, of Chapter 9.12, Offenses Against Property, of Title 9, Public Peace and
Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Catherine Fuller and Keith Coombes,
owner of Ernie November, spoke in favor of the ordinance. Topics discussed included: Stereotyping,
alternative transportation modes assisting with downtown congestion; current city code restriction;
amount of fine/penalty for violators, and suggestion that prohibiting skateboards within the Depot
Plaza could be considered if that was an area of concern.  Reporting for Public Services Committee,
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Chief Brian
Kozak, Police Department, stated he ha sn’t had a ny positive or negative feedback regarding the
ordinance from the Downtown Development Authority or downtown business owners.  He explained
there h ave been ve ry few  citations issued in the last severa l y ears as monitoring dow ntown
skateboarding is not a high priority for officers, and added that skateboarding could still be restricted
in areas such as the Depot Plaza if signs are posted.  He advised that a citation fine can be as high
as $750 as it is a misdemeanor.  Discussion followed and included the following topics: Currently
restricted ar eas; De pot Plaz a sig ned as no ska teboarding; r easons f or implementing  the initial
ordinance; other tra nsportation options being used in addition to skateboar ds; law enfor cement
priorities; property damage; skateboard park, located in Brimmer Park,  implementation and history
of same; amount of fine that can be assessed to violators; lack of objection being received on the
proposed ordinance from downtown businesses, and wording contained in the ordinance referencing
“or similar devices”.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal and Mr.
White. Voting “no” - - Mr. B rown, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Ms. Will iams and Mayor
Kaysen.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Creating the Pump House Restri cted Use Control AreaND
Overlay District, pursuant to Section 5.6.7 of the City of Cheyenne Unified Development Code for
Lots 12 through 22, Block 410, Original City of Cheyenne, including all of the adjacent vacated alley
(16’), easterly half of vacated Dillon Ave., we sterly half of va cated Snyder Ave., and a ll of the
vacated 15th St. (53.8’), per Ordinance 3244; and Lots 12 through 18 and the westerly 14 feet of Lot
19, Block 411, Original City of Cheyenne, including easterly half of vacated Snyder Ave., and all
of the vacated 15  St. (53.8’), per Ordinance 1598.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading,th
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - P ursuant t o Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,ND
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential to
NB Neighborhood Business for the West 7 Feet of Lot 2 and all of Lots 3-10, Block 7, Fairview
Addition Resubdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located at 2811 E. l3th
Street between Natrona Avenue and Platte Avenue.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Ms. Williams.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 2  RE ADING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,ND
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, chang ing the zoning classi fication from CB Communit y Business to MR-2
Medium-Density Residential-Developing for Lots 15-18, Block 1, Resubdivision of Lake Minnehaha
Addition, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to East 13th
Street, east of Fremont Avenue).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel ofND
land of approximately .575 acres of land situated in a portion of the NW¼ of Section 12, T.13N.,
R.67W., of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne advised that pursuant to the Public Services Committee
meeting on  Se ptember 2 0, 20 16, a  mot ion c arried to  re commend a n a mendment b y su bstitute
ordinance, however, since the Committee meeting, it had been brought to his attention that legal staff
has determined that wording contained in the proposed substitute should be further revised, and that
a new substitute will be presented at the next Committee meeting for consideration.  Therefore, he
would not be making a motion to amend by substitute ordinance.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by
substitute map, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion to amend carried voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,ND
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial (County) to LI Light
Industrial for that portion of the NW¼ of Section 12, T.13N., R.67W., of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming (west of Southwest Dr. and north of Interstate 80).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Ordinance No. 4147, annexing to the City ofST
Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lot 11, Block 4, Homestead Addition, First Filing Replat, and portions of:
Section 10, the E½ of Section 4, (including a portion of Cheyenne Irrigated Gardens Tracts 4 & 5,
falling north of Interstate 80 R/W), the W½ of Section 3, the W½E½ of Section 3, and all of the
S½SW¼ of Section 11 Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6th Principal Meridian, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. College Drive, and at the NW, SW, SE corners
of the intersection of I-80 and College Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee  (sponsor --
Dr. Mark Rinne).
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Murray Hill Estates 5th Filing, a replat of Tracts 52 and 53, Murray Hill Estates, 3rd Filing, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Fox Ridge Drive, south of Twin Mountain Road).
Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by revised County
Final Plat map that ad dresses staff c onditions with the exception of the following  revised sta ff
conditions, seconded by Mr. Roybal: #1 - add trust date for John F. Hartman Revocable Trust under
signature line in dedic ation, and #2 - a dd the word “ Estates” in the ded ication such that it reads
“Murray Hill Estates, 5  Filing”.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of theth
governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body.
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Waterford
Square 2nd Filing, of a replat of Lots 2 thru 19 and Lots 21 through 57, Block 6, Waterford Square,
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of I-80, between Morrie Avenue and
Avenue C-4).  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone
to October 10, 2016, seconde d by Mr. Roybal.  It was advi sed the postponement is to allow the
developer additional time to review staff conditions.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a replat of all of Lots 1
thru 11, inclusive, Block 1, and that adjacent 15' alley R/W; and all of Lots 1 thru 11, inclusive,
Block 2, and that adjacent 15' alley R/W; and those adjacent portions of 6  Street, Glen Avenue andth
Southwest Drive, all in Warren Glen Addition; and all of Lot 3, replat of a portion of Warren Glen
Addition, City of Cheyenne, and a previously unplatted parcel, all situated in the NW ¼ of Section
12, Township 13 North, Range 67 West, of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor – Dr. Mark Rinne). 
Recommendation by the Planning C ommission to c onditionally approve the Sweetgrass
Planned Unit Development Preliminary Plan for the property consisting of the following parcels of
land situated in Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming:
the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼SE¼) of Section 10; the South Half of the South
Half of the West Half (S½S½W½) of Section 11; the West Half (W½) of Section 14; All of Section
15; All of Section 16 ly ing South of Colleg e Drive right-of-way line and EXCEPT that par cel
recorded June 26, 1991 by Warranty Deed filed in Book 1304 Page 1805, Laramie County, Wyoming
records described as follows: Beginning at a point on the West line of said Section 16, from which
the Northwest corner thereof bears N.0°50’32”E., a distance of 1320.58 feet; thence S.89°42’54”E.,
a distance of 160.00 fe et; thence S.0°50’32'’W., a distance of 160.00; thenc e N.89°42’54'’W., a
distance of 160.00 feet to a point on the West line of said Section 16; thence N.0°50’32”E., along
said West Line, a distance of 160.00 feet to the point of beginning.  Exception containing 0.5877
acres more or less; and all of Section 21. All of the above containing 2349.54 acres more or less.
(generally located south of College Drive and east of Avenue C).  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty
Group, spoke about staff condition #3 that contains a restriction that no part of the proposed park
area shall serve as a storm water detention facility, and commented on the condition contrasting with
policy previously adopted in the PlanCheyenne document.  Dr. Rinne moved to acknowledge the
Planning Commission’s recommendation to conditionally approve with staff conditions #1 through
4 as written in the staff handout provided on 09-20-16, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved
to postpone to October 10, 2016, se conded by Mr. Roybal.  It was noted the developer requested
postponement to allow for further staff discussion regarding recommendations.  Motion to postpone
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
County Preliminary Plat for Country Homes Fifth Filing, Menkins Corner Second Filing, and
Barta Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Country Homes Subdivision Lot 8 and the S½ Lot 1 Block
4, being situated in a portion of the Northwest ¼ Section 17, T13N, R66W, of the 6th Principal
Meridian, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the intersection of College Drive and
South Greele y Hig hway). Dr. Rinne mo ved to acknowledg e the Planning  Commi ssion’s
recommendation to approve with staff conditions #1 through 4, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Cheyenne
Capitals Youth Hockey Association, for 2016 - 2017 youth hockey season at the City-owned Ice and
Events Center.  Motion (per consent agenda) carried. (#6582)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and Recreation Department, and Old Puckers
Hockey League, for 2016 - 2017 hockey season at the City-owned Ice and Events Center.  Motion
(per consent agenda) carried. (#6583)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City  of Chey enne Police D epartment and
Leslie Burch for crime victim assistance services.  Motion (per consent agenda) carried (in the base
salary amount of $48,878.52). (#6584)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City  of Chey enne Police D epartment and
Brenda Johnson for crime victim assistance services.  Motion (per consent agenda) carried (in the
base salary amount of $35,59.12). (#6585)
[CA] Contract Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne Police Department and Erin
A. Williams for crime victim assistance services.  Motion (per consent agenda) carried (in the base
salary amount of $24,700.00). (#6586)
[CA]  Co ntract betwee n the City  of Chey enne, Y outh Alternatives, a nd State of Wy oming
Department of Family Services, for kinship advocacy services for  relatives of displaced, at-risk
youth.  Motion (per consent agenda) carried. (#6587)
Contract Modification No. 6 to Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and RECCO Inc., dba Five - R Company, for the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens
Project to incr ease the Gua ranteed Maximum  Price (1%  Specific Purpose  Sales &  Use Ta x).
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown
moved to postpone to October 10, 2016, seconded by Mr. Luna.  It was noted postponement is to
provide time to clarify funding involving the modification.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-2-17 for the s ale of surplus property described as all of Lot 13,
Block 3, Rayor Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at 1900 East 18th Street) (revenue to
the City).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried (accepted bid from Marc Thayer in the total amount
of $111,000.00).
[CA] Consideration of B id #E-3-17 for  furnishing  ice c ontrol produc t for the Public Works
Department (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried (accepted bid from
Desert Mountain Corporation of Riverton, Wyoming, in an amount not to exceed $124,510.00).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-5-17 for furnishing 2000 95-gallon and 65-gallon automated refuse
carts for the Sanitation Division (Waste Management fund).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried
(accepted bid from Otto Environmental Systems, LLC of Charlotte, North Carolina, in an amount
not to exceed $101,408.00).
[CA] Consideration o f B id # S-1-17 f or a  c ontract b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne, Engineer
Department, and Reiman Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the 17  Street Lighting, Phase 1th
project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration o f B id # S-2-17 fo r a  contract between the City of Che yenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Department, and Reiman Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Cahill Park All-
Abilities P layground project (State &  Local, Misce llaneous F unds, Deve lopment Impact, Park
Facilities)  -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-3-17 for a contract between the City of  Che yenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Department, and S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the  Cheyenne Greenway,
Saddle Ridge Greenway Connector project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-6-17 for furnishing one new 2016 John Deere 1600 Turbo Series
II commercial wide area mower for the  Parks Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to
Finance Committee.
 
Appointment of Sam E. Gale otos to the Downtown Deve lopment Authority Board.  Mr.
Shanor  moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body with the exception Mr. Brown voting "no", and Mayor Kaysen who did not
vote (Mayoral appointee). 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase playground equipment for Cahill Park from Recreation Plus and
Dakota Playground (State and Local grants).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried (approved the
purchase from Recreation Plus of Denver, Colorado, in the amount of $292,668.00 and Dakota
Playground of Fargo, North Dakota, in the amount of $43,000.00 for a total purchase pric e of
$335,668.00). 
Announcement was made of the Appointment of Michelle Woerner to the Mayor’s Council
for People with Disabilities, to be confirmed October 10, 2016. 
Under other business, Mr. Johnson expressed appreciation to Dr. Rinne for particpating in
a recent event involving the Boys and Girls Club.
There being n o further business to come befor e the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:48 p.m.
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
October 6, 2016