MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-10-10 | CLIP_ID: 552 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 552

  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
October 10, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk, and
Mark Stewart, representing Davis and Cannon, LLP, Interim City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance
was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.).  Mr. Cook moved to approve , seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 26, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and Tyrrell Chevrolet respectively) and vacated Council
Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Cook.
Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen provided information available on vouchers payable to the following:
Gametime (installation of Highla nd Hills P ark playground equipment involving grant funding);
Shirley Hom an (a nnual ag reement for City  to acc ess private  proper ty on Be lvoir Ranch), a nd
Yuckos, Inc. (animal waste bags for public use in City parks and recreational areas).  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all member s o f the governing body present in Council C hambers.  Following
announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Creating the Pump House Restricted U se Control AreaRD
Overlay District, pursuant to Section 5.6.7 of the City of Cheyenne Unified Development Code for
Lots 12 through 22, Block 410, Original City of Cheyenne, including all of the adjacent vacated alley
(16’), easterly half of vaca ted Dillon Ave., we sterly half of va cated Snyder Ave., and a ll of the
vacated 15th St. (53.8’), per Ordinance 3244; and Lots 12 through 18 and the westerly 14 feet of Lot
19, Block 411, Original City of Cheyenne, including easterly half of vacated Snyder Ave., and all
of the vacated 15  St. (53.8’), per Ordinance 1598.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr.th
Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Susana
Montana, Development Department, advised that development and attorney staff are working with
the Department of Environmental Quality to finalize the remedy agreement, and that the Overlay
District is one element of the soil remediation process.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --  all members
of the governing body. (#4154)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,RD
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR-1 Medium Density Residential to
NB Neighborhood Business for the West 7 Fe et of Lot 2 and all of Lots 3-10, Block 7, Fairview
Addition Resubdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, located at 2811 E. l3th
Street between Natrona Avenue and Platte Avenue.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final
reading, seconded by Mr. Roy bal.  Upon inquiry  on whether  the lots include a dr ainage basin,
Susanna Montana, Development Department, explained the property is a large unpaved parking lot
that currently allows drainage, and that future uses of the site may require that drainage be addressed.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4155)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,RD
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, chang ing the zoning c lassification from CB Community  Business to MR-2
Medium-Density Residential-Developing for Lots 15-18, Block 1, Resubdivision of Lake Minnehaha
Addition, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to East 13th
Street, east of Fremont Avenue).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded
by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4156)
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a parcel ofRD
land of approximately .575 acres of land situated in a portion of the NW¼ of Section 12, T.13N.,
R.67W., of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final
reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated October 3, 2016
seconded by Mr. Roy bal.  I t was noted the substitute corr ects the a creage referenced within the
ordinance entitlement from .575 to .58 acres and adds paragraph (h) to Section 1 relating to property
ownership.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4157)
ORDINANCE - 3  RE ADING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,RD
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial (County) to LI Light
Industrial for that portion of the NW¼ of Section 12, T.13N., R.67W., of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wyoming (west of Southwest Dr. and north of Interstate 80).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve
on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry , Eric Hammer, Development
Department, explained that the applicant properly notified applicable adjacent land owners, and there
were no comments received.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#4158)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending Ordinance No. 4147, annexing to the City ofND
Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lot 11, Block 4, Homestead Addition, First Filing Replat, and portions of:
Section 10, the E½ of Section 4, (including a portion of Cheyenne Irrigated Gardens Tracts 4 & 5,
falling north of Interstate 80 R/W), the W½ of Section 3, the W½E½ of Section 3, and a ll of the
S½SW¼ of Section 11 Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6th Principal Meridian, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. College Drive, and at the NW, SW, SE corners
of the intersection of I-80 and College Drive).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE -  1  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,ST
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MUB - Mixed Use Business to CB -
Community Business for Lot 1, Block 1 of Marian Subdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Dell Range Boulevard and east of Windmill Road)  –
referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Dr. Mark Rinne).
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Waterford
Square 2nd Filing, of a replat of Lots 2 thru 19 and Lots 21 through 57, Block 6, Waterford Square,
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of I-80, between Morrie Avenue and
Avenue C-4).  Kelly Hafner, Benchmark Engineers, speaking on behalf of the applicant, Heartland
Homes, briefly reviewed the property development project and amenities to be provided, noting the
replat involves proposed construction of duplex/twinhomes with private access drives.  Mr. Hafner
advised  concerns expressed by the Engineering Department regarding proposed private drives vs.
public City streets and width of same were considered, and confirmed the applicant wishes to
proceed with the plat proposal with private drives, and including seven staff conditions, as presented
at the recent Public Services Committee meeting.  During his comments, Mr. Haf ner referenced
wording contained in Section 4.3 of the Unified Development Code (UDC) relative to the option of
private drives and, upon inquiry, Mr. Hafner and Jim Woods, o wner, Heartland Homes, LLC,
provided in formation o n a  pr oposed H ome Ow ners As sociation ( HOA) wh ich w ould a ddress
maintenance top ics f or pr ivate a reas w ithin t he su bdivision.  Na than B eauheim, De puty City
Engineer, advised engineering staff is recommending the proposed plat be denied as issues involving
public streets vs. private drives have not been resolved, and provided information on past situations
where private streets/drives had been constructed which did not have to meet City standards, nor be
inspected during construction, and future problems with maintenance and City involvement.  He
referenced a recent map, prepared by staff that suggests a workable configuration for public streets,
and stated the map had been submitted for the applicant’s consideration, noting the map was also
provided to governing body members.  Mr. Hafner stated the proposed private accessways would
be oversized alleys wide enough for fire response and sanitation services access, and would meet the
standards for alleys.  Jim Vo eller, City Engineer, provided additional information on public vs.
private roads; referenced information contained in his recent correspondence to the governing body
on the agenda topic, and displayed and commented upon the new option (map) prepared by staff
being proposed to include public r oads.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Woods provided information on
proposed minimal usage of the private drives (i.e. by residents to gain access to garages) and housing
construction cost impac t to buy ers if public stree ts were required.  Vicki Neme cek, Director of
Public Works, confirmed it is department policy  that staff doe s not enter upon pr ivately owned
alleyways for purposes of providing sanitation collection ser vices.  Jack Studley , City Surveyor,
commented that initial use of the proposed private drives would probably be limited in use by local
residents but future development plans, which may include extension of the Greenway system in the
subdivision, may generate additional traffic and parking uses and needs.  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt
with staff conditions #1 through 7, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by revised
Final Plat map to include staff conditions #1 through 7, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to amend
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Beauheim provided
examples of other a reas within the Cit y where privately owned streets and alleys exist, and Mr.
Hafner reconfirmed the applicant is requesting approval of the current proposal as presented at the
Public Services Committee meeting.  General  discussion on the item included the following topics:
Home Owners Association formation and maintenance responsibilities; City park land involved with
the development project; interpretation of UDC Section 4.3, and further discussion between staff and
the applicant/agent regarding the proposed map prepared by staff reflecting a configuration allowing
for public streets.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to  October 24, 2016, se conded by Mr. Shanor.
Request was made that staff, Mr. Hafner and Mr. Woods meet to try to resolve issues and concerns
prior to the next Public Services Committee meeting.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a replat of all of Lots 1
thru 11, inclusive, Block 1, and that a djacent 15' alley R/W; and all of L ots 1 thru 11, inclusive,
Block 2, and that adjacent 15' alley R/W; and those adjacent portions of 6  Street, Glen Avenue andth
Southwest Drive, all in Warren Glen Addition; and all of Lot 3, replat of a portion of Warren Glen
Addition, City of Cheyenne, and a previously unplatted parcel, all situated in the NW ¼ of Section
12, Township 13 North, Range 67 West, of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne
moved to adopt with staff conditions #1 through 4, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne advised that
following the Public Services Committee meeting it was brought to his attention that the developer
had submitted a revised map that resolves staff conditions #1 through 4, and moved to amend by
revised map (with no staff conditions), seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. (#5798)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 – r eferred to Financ e Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting Cheyenne’s West Edge Area Wide Plan to identify, develop and
implement priority  projec ts and reme diation strateg ies that will spur economic activity and
encourage long-term redevelopment in the near west side of downtown Cheyenne – r eferred to
Public Services Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne). 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Del-Van
Office Park, a Replat of Lots 1 thru 4, and that adjacent 16' alley, Block 1, Braden Homesites, City
of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, situated in the SW¼ of Section 23, T.14N., R.66W., of
the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Dell
Range Boulevard and Gysel Place) – referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - R egarding Non-Discrimination – referred to Comm ittee of the Whole
(sponsors - Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal, Mr. White, Ms. Williams).
Recommendation by the Planning Commission to conditionally approve the Sweetgrass
Planned Unit Development Preliminary Plan for the property consisting of the following parcels of
land situated in Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming:
the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼SE¼) of Section 10; the South Half of the South
Half of the West Half (S½S½W½) of Section 11; the West Half (W½) of Section 14; All of Section
15; All of Section 16 ly ing South of Colleg e Drive right-of-way line and EXCEPT that par cel
recorded June 26, 1991 by Warranty Deed filed in Book 1304 Page 1805, Laramie County, Wyoming
records described as follows: Beginning at a point on the West line of said Section 16, from which
the Northwest corner thereof bears N.0°50’32”E., a distance of 1320.58 feet; thence S.89°42’54”E.,
a distance of 160.00 fe et; thence S.0°50’32'’W., a distance of  160.00; thence N .89°42’54'’W., a
distance of 160.00 feet to a point on the West line of said Section 16; thence N.0°50’32”E., along
said West Line, a distance of 160.00 feet to the point of beginning.  Exception containing 0.5877
acres more or less; and all of Section 21. All of the above containing 2349.54 acres more or less.
(generally located south of College Drive and east of Avenue C).  Boyd Wiggam, Wyoming Liberty
Group, commented on staff condition #3 and his belief that it is in conflict with policy previously
adopted in the PlanCheyenne document relating to requirement of a stormwater detention facility.
It was noted that the referenced condition had been removed pursuant to review and recommendation
at the Public  Services Commi ttee mee ting.  Dr . Rinne moved to acknow ledge the Planning
Commission’s recommendation to conditionally approve with revised staff conditions #1 through
3 as referenced in the October 4, 2016 Development Department memo, seconded by Mr. Roybal.
Lee Martin, speaking on behalf of the developer, stated the staff conditions were acceptable.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Grant Award Agreement with the State of Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a Grant
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), Grant Programs Directorate, State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) Grant Fiscal Year
2016, in the amount of $380,000.00, for the City of Cheyenne Regional Emergency Response Team
#7 (Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Grant Program
Directorate, State Homeland Security Program) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Downtown Development
Authority to establish the process by which payments are transmitted for the Fiscal Year 2016 -2017
– referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City  of Chey enne, Information Technology Division, and
Xerox by Xerox Agent XESI for replacement of a high volume production color copier – referred
to Finance Committee. 
Contract Modification No. 6 to Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Department, and RECCO Inc., dba Five - R Company, for the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens
Project to incre ase the  Guar anteed Maxi mum Price (1% Spec ific Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x).
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Brown
advised that a motion to amend by substitute dated September 30, 2016 was made at the Finance
Committee meeting, however, it had been brought to his attention following the Committee meeting
that the correct date for the proposed substitute is October 3, 2016.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by
substitute dated October 3, 2016, secon ded by Mr. L una.  Randy  Byers, TDSI, architect for the
project, explained there are 12 proposed items contained in the change order that will help enhance
the Botanic Gardens project, and that the Friends of the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Foundation has
sought and received monetary donations to assist with t he change order items and maintena nce.
Upon inquiry, Dr. Rinne, City Council representative on the Foundation board, further explained the
Foundation has raised a significant amount of money for the project in addition to funding approved
by voters (i.e . 6  penny sales tax).  He noted tha t initial project bids received were higher thanth
estimated so some items desired for the project were either re-bid or eliminated and that through
partnering of City funds with the funds raised by the Foundation some of the initial amenities could
now be included.  Upon request, Mr. Byers reviewed each of the proposed contract modification
items.  May or Ka ysen conf irmed that funding  is secure d and the pr oposed improvements a re
enhancements not requirements.  Upon inquiry, Shane Smith, Director of Botanic Gardens, stated
the enhancements are acceptable to the Foundation and will help with future funding opportunities.
Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#6219)
[CA] Consideration o f B id # S-1-17 f or a  c ontract b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne, Engineer
Department, and Reiman Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the 17  Street Lighting, Phase 1th
project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried (accepted the
bid to include alternate #1 in an amount not to exceed $594,698.00). (#6591)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-2-17 fo r a  c ontract be tween th e City  of  Che yenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Department, and Reiman Corporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Cahill Park All-
Abilities P layground projec t (State &  Local, Misce llaneous F unds, Deve lopment Impact, Park
Facilities).  Motio n (per consent agenda) carried (accepted the bid to include alter nate #4 in an
amount not to exceed $719,946.90). (#6592)
[CA] Consideration o f B id #S-3-17 for a contract between th e City  of  Che yenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Department, and S&S Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the  Cheyenne Greenway,
Saddle Ridge Greenway Connector project (1% Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Motion (per
consent agenda) carried (rejected all bids).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-6-17 for furnishing one new 2016 John Deere 1600 Turbo Series
II commercial wide area mower for the  Parks Division (2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per
consent agenda) carried (accepted bid from Stotz Equipment, Casper, Wyoming, in an amount not
to exceed $ 46,538.47).
Appointment of Michelle Woerner to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities.  Mr.
Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointee). 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held October 24, 2016, at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a  restaurant liquor license
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Bella Fuoco LLC d/b/a Bella Fuoco, 2115 Warren
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to receive public comment regarding the intent
of the City of Cheyenne to s ubmit an application to the Wyoming Business Council’s Business
Ready Community, Community Enhancement Grant Program to assist in funding the demolition and
replacement of the restroom/concessions building at the Dutcher Ball Field Complex Project.
Under other business, it was noted tha t dedication of the  West Alli son Road roundabout
project was held rece ntly; that a petition has bee n submitted to the City Clerk’s office regarding
concerns with slum and blight conditions within mobile/trailer home parks within the City, and brief
comments we re ma de re lating to a statement m ade a t a  re cent C ity Cou ncil c andidate de bate
involving the ability of current Council members to work together.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting wa s
officially adjourned at 7:37 p.m.
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
October 21, 2016