MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-10-24 | CLIP_ID: 554 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 554

   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
October 24, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook (arriving at 6:09 p.m.), Richard Johnson, Mike L una, Dr.
Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor, Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Also present: Carol
Intlekofer, City  Cle rk, a nd Ma rk Ste wart, r epresenting Da vis a nd Ca nnon, L LP, I nterim Cit y
Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Ms. Williams, and pursuant to support received
by Dr. Rinne  and Mr. Johnson, Agenda Item #20 (a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr.
Luna moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 10, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers payable to Tyrrell-
Doyle Auto Center)  and vac ated Council Chamber s.  Mr. L una moved  to approve  payment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Bella Fuoco LLC d/b/a Bella Fuoco, 2115
Warren Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  There being no comments or input, Mayor Kaysen closed
the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
 
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input regarding the intent
of the City of Cheyenne to submit an application to the Wyoming Business Council’s Business
Ready Community, Community Enhancement Grant Program to assist in funding the demolition and
replacement of the restroom concessions building at the Dutcher Ball Field Complex Project.  Cindy
Schneider, Grants Manager, explained the purpose of the grant and applicable time frames involved;
noted elements of the project for which the funding will be used if the application is approved, and
advised the project cost is estimated a t $320,000, of which $240,000 will be requested from the
Wyoming Business Council with a 25% City  match from Community Facilities fees and in-kind
services.  Upon inquiry, Rick Parish, Parks and Recreation, provided information on future proposals
for concessions stand services. [City Clerk note: Councilman Cook joined the meeting in progress]
Upon inquiry, Ms. Schneider further explained grant requirements, advising she was not aware of
any other City projects involving other applications for the upcoming grant cycle, and Mayor Kaysen
noted that funding sources are being sought to update areas in the Municipal building and Civic
Center to meet ADA compliance.  There being no further comments or input, Mayor Kaysen closed
the hearing. 
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending Ordinance No. 4147, annexing to the City ofrd
Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lot 11, Block 4, Homestead Addition, First Filing Replat, and portions of:
Section 10, the E½ of Section 4, (including a portion of Cheyenne Irrigated Gardens Tracts 4 & 5,
falling north of Interstate 80 R/W), the W½ of Section 3, the W½E½ of Section 3, and all of the
S½SW¼ of Section 11 Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6th Principal Meridian, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to S. College Drive, and at the NW, SW, SE corners
of the intersection of I-80 and College Drive).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body. (#4159)
ORDINANCE - 2   REA DING - P ursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MUB - Mixed use Business to CB -
Community Business for Lot 1, Block 1 of Marian Subdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Dell Range Boulevard and east of Windmill Road).  Dr.
Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body. 
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Section 9.12.090, Skateboards an d SimilarST
Devices Prohibited, of Chapter 9.12, Offe nses Against Property, of Title 9, Public Peace  and
Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee
(Sponsor - Dr. Rinne). 
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Waterford
Square 2nd Filing, of a replat of Lots 2 thru 19 and Lots 21 through 57, Block 6, Waterford Square,
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of I-80, between Morrie Avenue and
Avenue C-4).  Seth Lloyd, Development Department, requested the item be postponed to allow for
revisions to the Final Plat map pursuant to discussions with the developer.  Dr. Rinne moved to
adopt, seconded by Mr. Roy bal.  Upon inquiry , Mr. L loyd ad vised the revised map would be
presented a t th e next Publi c Services Co mmittee me eting.  M r. Roybal mo ved to  po stpone to
November 14, 2016, seconded by Mr. Cook.  M otion to p ostpone carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5799)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Adopting Cheyenne’s West Edge Area Wide Plan to identify, develop and
implement priority  pro jects and reme diation strateg ies that will spur economic a ctivity and
encourage long-term redevelopment in the near  west side of dow ntown Cheyenne.  Motion (pe r
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5800) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Del-Van
Office Park, a Replat of Lots 1 thru 4, and that adjacent 16' alley, Block 1, Braden Homesites, City
of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, situated in the SW¼ of Section 23, T.14N., R.66W., of
the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Dell
Range Boulevard and Gysel Place).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5801)
RESOLUTION - Regarding Non-Discrimination.  Prior to calling for public input on the
item, Mayor Kaysen reviewed speaker guidelines that would apply , including a  time limi t of 5
minutes per speaker, due to the number of members from the public wishing to provide comments.
The following individuals offered comments on the proposed resolution: Thomas Hutchings, Jim
Gaulke, Rev. Audette Fulbright, Ashlynn Kercher, Angela Barkell, Justin Barkell, John S undin,
Anna Jones, Lynn Weidel, Billie Scott, L auren Danley, Dave Teubner, Robin Goodspeed, Jason
Bloomberg, Rebecca Aardahl, Claire Olson, Joshua Sheets, Evelyn Skinner, Connor Sears, Ryan
Nielsen, Betty White, Cindy Jefferson, Tracy Williams, Christina Sears, Courtney Titus, Sawyer
Ruben, Hannah Brown, Irene Bales, Randy Oestman, Stephanie Cuthbertson, Erin Clingman, Marcie
Kindred Sm ith, Pete Se ekell, Am breia Me adows-Fernandez, D eacon Mic hael L eman, Ky le
Inselman, Steve Sears, Casey Quinn, A.J. Kelly and Matthew Porras.
Following a 10 minute reces s, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 8:27 p.m. with public
comments continuing by the following: Denise Fertig, A.J. McDaniel, Bob Norris, Michael West,
Susan Aldana, E van Sc ott, L inda L ee, Sh ayna A lexander, Sh aron Re hm, M ary Ri tchie, M ary
Bernadette Lovato, Mary Throne, Ruby Johnson, Linda Burt, Mary Schirf, Eric Crosby, Joe Hardy,
Sabrina King, Thomas Quinlivan, Melanie Vigil, Sheridan Fertig, Matthew Waterman, Jack Rehm,
Jack Re ynolds, Betty Scranton, B rent Wilkins , Mary Boud, L aura Gre enwald, Debora h Wis e,
Howard Last, Royce Fertig, Sherry Sundin, Ken Will and Grace Rise.
Following a 10 minute recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 10:20 p.m. with public
comments continuing by the following: Mike Velasco, Amelia Jasper, Kevin Phillips, Shannon (no
last name provided), Lori Brand, Nadine Peterson, Jeran Artery, Paige Smith, Russell Hay, Mike
Blakely, Marguerite Herman, James Miller, Brenda Lyttle, Larenda Mayberry, Steve Melia, Stewart
Campbell, Travis Kirchhefer, Darius Becker, Charlotte Powers, Matthew Mayberry, Mike Williams,
Christopher M ayberry, S ara W illiams, K endra M iller, Je anette V igil, K aren M umper, L ynette
Hutchings, Truett Thompson, Juliette Daniels, Elisabet de Vallee, Sarah Burlingame, Bruce Kite,
Ray Fertig and Ken Trowbridge.  Comments were made in support as well as non- support of the
proposed resolution with topics discussed by the speakers including the following: First amendment
rights; exclusion of certa in gr oups not refe renced in the propose d resolution; equal rig hts and
opportunities; religious beliefs and protections; potential effect of the resolution on small businesses;
examples of local discrimination as well as lack of evidence of same; addressing the topic through
state legislation instead of local government; respect; tolerance; employee recruitment and retention;
diversity; use of re stroom facilities; bullying; lifestyle choices; reverse discrimination; personal
values and beliefs; submitting the topic to voters through an election ballot process; special interest
legislation; federal civil rights protections and interpretations; resolution as a policy statement; core
values; community effect; culture changes; qualification of City Council member to vote on the
resolution, and secular humanism.  During their comments, Ms. Goodspeed, Mr. Crosby and Ms.
Boud each submitted a handout [on file with City Clerk’s office] containing information in support
of their comments.  Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Mr. Cook move to adopt, seconded by
Mrs. Williams.  During comments, Mr. Cook raised a point of order objecting to personal opinions
being expressed with Mayor Kaysen ruling that comments should stay on point to the resolution
topic.  D iscussion f ollowed o n th e int ent o f t he re solution’s no n-discrimination subject a lso
becoming a religious focus.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by adding an additional Whereas clause
to read as follows, seconded by Ms. Williams: Whereas, the City of Cheyenne recognizes the right
of re ligious c onscience.  M s. B urlingame a nd Mr . M elia sp oke in s upport of the a mendment.
Discussion followed on the meaning of the word “conscience” and support as well as non-support
of the resolution.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Further discussion followed on wording of certain clauses contained in the resolution; state-wide
discrimination statistics; resolution as an expression of opinion and not regulatory in nature, and lack
of inclusion in resolution wording to reference non-discrimination involving all groups.  Motion to
adopt as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Cook, Mr.  Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roy bal, Mr.
Shanor, Mr. White and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Luna and Mayor Kaysen.
(#5802)
Following a brief recess, Mayor Kaysen reconvened the meeting at 11:47 p.m.
[CA] RESOLUTION -Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business Council
under the Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for a Community Enhancement
Project on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne for the demolition and replacement
of the re stroom/concessions buildi ng at the Dutche r Ball Field Complex – refer red to F inance
Committee (Sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving a Special Use Permit for a Creative Sign Program for all of
Block 2, Resubdivision of Fairview Addition, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south
of East L incolnway between Natrona Avenue and Platte Avenue ) – refe rred to Publi c Services
Committee (Sponsors - Mr. Roybal and Ms. Williams).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving Water and Sanitary Sewer Service s, by  Outside Users
Agreement, with the Microsoft Corporation, Lot 3, Block 13, North Range Business Park Sixth
Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee (Sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Accepting Grants of Easement for Lots 1-15, Inclusive, Block 28, Lots 1-
10, In clusive, B lock 3 3, a nd v acated E lm C ourt b etween F orest Drive and L incoln H ighway,
Mountview Park Addition to the City of Cheyenne, for the purpose of providing a public alley for
the convenience of the occupants of said property –  referred to Public Services Committee (Sponsor
- Dr. Rinne).
Grant Award Agreement with the State of Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a Grant
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), Grant Programs Directorate, State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) Grant Fiscal Year
2016, in the amount of $380,000.00, for the City of Cheyenne Regional Emergency Response Team
#7 (Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Grant Program
Directorate, State Homeland Security Program).  Chief Jim Martin, Fire and Rescue Department,
advised the Response Team provides hazardous material, rescue and major incident res ponse
coverage for three counties, and provided information on use of the grant funds.  Mr. Brown moved
to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body. (#6596)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Downtown Development
Authority to establish the process by which payments are transmitted for the Fiscal Year 2016-2017.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#6597)
[CA] Lease Agreement between the Ci ty of Chey enne, Information Technology Division, and
Xerox by Xerox Agent XESI for replacement of a high volume production color copier.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#6598)
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 6020 LLC for limited use of the public
right-of-way to install fiber optics (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]   Consideration of Bid #E-8-17 for furnishing one new 2017 full size, regular cab, 4x4, one-ton
pickup truck for the Parks Division (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]   Consideration of Bid #E-10-17 for furnishing new landfill portable litter fences for the City’s
Landfill Division (Solid Waste Management) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-7-17 for furnishing two (2) new 2017 cab and chassis with 9-foot
dump bed for the City’s Cemetery and Forestry Divisions (2015 - 2018 1%  Sales Tax) – referred
to Finance Committee.
[CA] Request to change retail liquor dispensing room dimensions for H EJE, Inc. d/b/a Outlaw
Liquors, 4503 Western Way, Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 14, 2016 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership
for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Bejo Inc. d/b/a Bejo,
112 West 17  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Re-O-Na Sushi & Thai d/b/ath
Re-O-Na Sushi Bar & Thai Cuisine, 112 West 17  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming).th
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 14, 2016 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a retail liquor license
transfer of location application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Mason Properties, LLC d/b/a
TBD, 2825 East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 14, 2016 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership
for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for High Plains Pizza,
Inc. d/b/a Pizza Hut #261, 5320 Yellowstone Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by
Pizza Hut on Yellowstone, Inc. d/b/a Pizza Hut on Yellowstone, 5320 Yellowstone Road, Cheyenne,
Wyoming).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 14, 2016 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership
for a  restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Colvin Properties,
LLC d/b/a Pi zza Hut #262, 4503 Western Way , Cheyenne, Wyoming (License formerly held by
Pizza Hut of Cheyenne, Inc. d/b/a Pizza Hut/Wing Street, 4503 Western Way, Cheyenne, Wyoming).
Under other business, Jeff Dierksen referenced a petition he recently filed with the City
Clerk’s office regarding traffic safety concerns on Pinto Lane and indicated he would further discuss
his concerns at a future meeting.  Mr. Johnson congratulated local resident Benjamin Gonzales for
placing fifth in a recent international amateur freestyle BMX bicycle competition.  Upon inquiry,
Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, explained the fee for transfers of ownership involving restaurant liquor
licenses is less than the application fee for a new license.
There being  no further  business to come be fore the governing body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 11:58 p.m.
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
November 4, 2016