MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-11-14 | CLIP_ID: 556 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 556

  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
November 14, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  Present w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Absent: Dicky Shanor.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk,
and Mark Stewart, re presenting Davis and Cannon, L LP, Interim City Attorney.  The pledg e of
allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 24, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and Tyrrell Chevrolet respectively) and vacated Council
Chambers.  Mr. Johnson moved to approve pa yment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr.
Luna.  M otion carried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal returned to Council
Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Bejo Inc. d/b/a Bejo, 112 West 17  Street,th
Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Re-O-Na Sushi & Thai d/b/a Re-O-Na Sushi Bar
& Thai Cuisine, 112 West 17  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  There being no comments or input,th
Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a r etail liquor
license transfer of location application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Mason Properties, LLC
d/b/a TBD, 2825 East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk,
advised the applicant is requesting a transfer of location into the west end of the building at 2825
East Lincolnway while re novations are being done to the currently licensed building  at 2801 E.
Lincolnway, and the applicant will request a future transfer of location application back to the 2801
address when remodeling is completed.  There being no further comments or input, Mayor Kaysen
closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to r eceive comments and input for  a tra nsfer of
ownership for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for High
Plains Pizza, Inc. d/b/a Pizza Hut #261, 5320 Yellowstone Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License
currently held by Pizza Hut on Yellowstone, Inc. d/b/a Pizza Hut on Yellowstone, 5320 Yellowstone
Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised the Clerk’s office received a non-
compliance notice from the Wyoming Liquor Division regarding non-payment of delinquent sales
tax involving the current licensee.  She noted that per state statute the governing body as the local
licensing authority can not approve the transfer until the non-compliance issue has been remedied,
and advised she would provide an update on the issue at the next Finance Committee meeting.  There
being no further comments or input, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the application
to Finance Committee.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hear ing to r eceive comments and input for  a tra nsfer of
ownership for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Colvin
Properties, LLC d/b/a Pizza Hut #262, 4503 Western Way, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently
held by Pizza Hut of Cheyenne, Inc. d/b/a Pizza Hut/Wing Street, 4503 Western Way, Cheyenne,
Wyoming).  There being no comments or input, Mayor Kaysen closed the hearing and referred the
application to Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE - 3   REA DING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,RD
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MUB - Mixed Use Business to CB -
Community Business for Lot 1, Block 1 of Marian Subdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County,
Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to Dell Rang e Boulevard and ea st of Windm ill Road).
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry regarding staff report comments related to Fire Department
criteria and traffic study status, Eric Hammer, Development Department, advised staff notes pertain
to the future site plan for the property and doesn’t affect the current zone change request.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4160)
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - A mending Section 9.12.090, Sk ateboards and SimilarND
Devices Prohibited, of Chapter 9.12., Of fenses Against Property, of Title 9 , Public P eace and
Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Discussion included: Difference between this ordinance and
another recent ordinance on the topic that wa s considered but not approved; propose d ordinance
allowing skateboard riding on sidewalks, streets and public areas in the  downtown a rea f or
transportation p urposes u nless s ignage ind icates it  is p rohibited; s kateboard ri ding on  pr ivate
property being prohibited unless written per mission i s rec eived f rom the prope rty owner , and
enforcement o f v iolations.  M s. Willi ams m oved to  a mend by a dding “ that a  sk ateboarder i s
responsible for any injuries he or she causes to themselves and unauthorized properties and to obey
all rules of the road and use of the sidewalks”, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Jacob Freeman suggested
adding language to the amendment that would include responsibility for any injuries skateboarders
cause to themselves and other s.  Discussion on the proposed amendment included the f ollowing
topics: Potential civil lawsuits; City attorney review of the proposed amendment wording; City
responsibilities vs. private par ties; low volume of citations issued in the past for  skateboarding
violations, and liability and responsibility of skateboard riders. Upon inquiry, Mark Stewart, Interim
City Attorney, advised that people are liable for their own negligence.  Ms. Williams revised her
motion by friendly amendment by adding “injuries to themselves or to others”.  Motion to amend
by friendly amendment carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. White, Ms. Williams and
Mayor Kaysen.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna and Mr. Roybal.  Motion to
amend as amended by friendly amendment failed.  Voting “yes” -- Ms. Williams, Mr. Cook and Mr.
White.  Voting  “no” - - Mr. B rown, Mr. J ohnson, Mr. L una, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roy bal and Ma yor
Kaysen.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and
Mr. White. Voting “no” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Luna, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Waterford
Square 2nd Filing, of a replat of Lots 2 thru 19 and Lots 21 through 57, Block 6, Waterford Square,
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of I-80, between Morrie Avenue and
Avenue C-4).  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by
substitute re solution dated November  8, 2016 and re vised plat map dat ed November 4, 2016,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Kaysen advised that City and applicant concerns
have been addressed with the proposed amendment.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.  Mai n motion as amended carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#5803)
[CA] RESOLUTION -Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business Council
under the Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for a Community Enhancement
Project on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne for the demolition and replacement
of the re stroom/concessions building at the Dutche r Ball Field Complex.  Mot ion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5804)
RESOLUTION - Approving a Special Use Permit for a  Creative Sign Program for all of
Block 2, Resubdivision of Fairview Addition, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south
of East Lincolnway between Natrona Avenue and Platte Avenue).  Dr . Rinne moved to adopt,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Discussion followed on:  Creative Sign Program requirements and options;
Unified Development Code (UDC) provisions; option for approval through variance process by the
Board of Adjustment instead of the governing body; Program intent; what constitutes “creative”, and
Program flexibility.  During discussion and upon inquiry, Seth Lloyd, Development Department,
provided information on the variance process that was shared with the applicant; proposed sign not
meeting UDC requirements, and UDC description of what constitutes a creative sign.  Upon inquiry
to provide comments on the topic inconsistent with  the governing body’s public par ticipation
procedure, and with no objection being raised by City Council members, John Mason, applicant,
provided information on improvements he has made to the property and the type of creative sign he
wishes to construct.  He noted past creative signs approved by the governing body and commented
on subjective interpr etation.  Discussion continued on pre viously approve d signs; B oard of
Adjustment var iance proce dure; e lectronic signs; ordina nce r equirements, and established
procedures.  During comments by D.J. Perrott MacNeil regarding property owned by the Union
Pacific Railroa d, Mr. B rown ra ised a point of or der that the comments we re irr elevant to the
resolution with Mayor Kaysen concurring.  Motion to adopt carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#5805)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A pproving Water and Sanitary Sewer Services, by  Outside Users
Agreement, with the Microsoft Corporation, Lot 3, Block 13, North Range Business Park Sixth
Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5806)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Accepting Grants of Easement for Lots 1-15, Inclusive, Block 28, Lots 1-
10, In clusive, B lock 3 3, a nd v acated E lm Court between F orest D rive a nd L incoln H ighway,
Mountview Park Addition to the City of Cheyenne, for the purpose of providing a public alley for
the convenience of the occupants of said property.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5807)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Appointing the City Treasurer to serve on the Advisory Board o f t he
participating Municipa lities of the L aramie State Small Business Credi t Initiative (“SSBCI ”)
Consortium, which is charged with exercising supervisory responsibility over the activities of the
Wyoming Smart Capital Network, LLC, to ensure the lawful allocation and administration of SSBCI
funding – referred to Finance Committee (sponsors - Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen).
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the City Treasurer to discharg e uncollectible debts in the
amount of $36,085.49 pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502 – referred to Finance Committee (sponsor -
Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re-appropriating the Fisc al Year 2017 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 – referred to Financ e Committee
(sponsor - Mr. Brown).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Accepting the conveyance of two parcels of property herein described from
Ms. Stephanie White to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee
(sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Barta Subdivision, a replat of Lot 8 and the S½ Lot 1 Block 4, Country Homes Subdivision being
situated in the northwest ¼ of the  northwest ¼ Section 17, T13N, R66W, o f the 6  Principalth
Meridian, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Pine Avenue, south of College
Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Country Homes Fifth Filing, being situated in a portion of the northwest ¼ Section 17, T13N, R66W,
of the 6  Principal Meridian, L aramie County, Wyoming (located east of and a djacent to Pineth
Avenue, south of College Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee (sponsor - Dr. Rinne).
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 6020 LLC for limited use of the public
right-of-way to install fiber optics (Revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6600)
[CA] Volleyball Officiating Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Officials for Fun Club
for adult City league volleyball officiating services for 2017 - 2019 – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract between the City  of Chey enne, Transit Division, and Wy oming Department of
Health, Aging Division, to provide supportive s ervices to persons 60 y ears or older ( Title III-B
Program Grant) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Access Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Downtown Development
Authority for the use of a portion of the Depot Plaza for the installation of a synthetic ice skating rink
to be used by the public without charge – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Addendum No. 4 to City Contract No. 2985 between the City of Cheyenne and the City of
Cheyenne, Wyoming - Laramie County, State of Wyoming Joint Powers Board, to allow a sublease
with Verizon Wi reless for the installation of a te lecommunications facility t o improve ce llular
telephone communications adjacent to and within Frontier Park – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]   Consideration of Bid #E-8-17 for furnishing one new 2017 full size, regular cab, 4x4, one-ton
pickup truck for the Parks Division (2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax).  Moti on (per Consent Agenda)
carried (accepted bid from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in an amount not to exceed
$36,999.00).
[CA]   Consideration of Bid #E-10-17 for furnishing new landfill portable litter fences for the City’s
Landfill Division (Solid Waste Management).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid
from Metta Technologies, Toledo, Ohio, in an amount not to exceed $44,542.00). 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-7-17 for furnishing two (2) new 2017 cab and chassis with 9-foot
dump bed for the City’s Park & Recreation Department (2015 - 2018 1%  Sales Tax).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Spradle y Barr Motors, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in an
amount not to exceed $103,049.63). 
[CA]   Consideration of B id #S- 6-17 for a co ntract bet ween the  City o f Cheyenne, Parks &
Recreation Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Cheyenne Greenway,
Saddle Ridge Greenway Connector Project (Grant Funding, Special Purpose Sales & Use Tax) –
referred to Finance Committee.
 
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Bella Fuoco LLC
d/b/a Bella Fuoco, 2115 Warren Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  M otion (per Consent Agenda)
carried. 
[CA] Request to change retail liquor dispensing room dimensions for H EJE, Inc. d/b/a Outlaw
Liquors, 4503 Western Way, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 28, 2016 at 6:00 p.m.
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of ownership
for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for One East Sixteenth, LLC
d/b/a TBD, 1601 Central Ave nue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Los Abuelos
Mexican Restaurant, d/b/a  L os Abuelos Mexican Restaura nt, 1601 Central Avenue , Cheyenne,
Wyoming).
Under other business, Mr. Johnson congratulated local rapper Alfred “Y-O” Spatz for his
collaboration with Afroman on a song about Wyoming. 
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting w as
officially adjourned at 6:48 p.m.
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
November 25, 2016