MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-11-28 | CLIP_ID: 558 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 558

  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
November 28, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor,
Jeff White and Annette Williams. Absent: Richard Johnson.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City
Clerk, and Mark Stewart, representing Davis and Cannon, LLP, Interim City Attorney.  The pledge
of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.).  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 14, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and Tyrrell Chevrolet respectively) and vacated Council
Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Cook.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to r eceive comments and input for  a tra nsfer of
ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for One East
Sixteenth, LLC d/b/a TBD, 1601 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming  (License currently held by
Los Abuelos Mexican Restaurant, d/b/a  Los Abuelos Mexican Restaurant, 1601 Central Avenue,
Cheyenne, Wyoming).  William Murray, member of One East Sixteenth, LLC, advised they are
working toward acquiring a tenant to occupy the building and utilitize the license, preferably for
restaurant purposes, and, upon inquiry, stated once the transfer is approved they will actively pursue
tenant opportunities.  There being no further comments or input, Mayor Kaysen closed the public
hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - A mending Section 9. 12.090, Skateboards and Simil arRD
Devices Prohibited, of Chapter 9.12., Of fenses Against Property, of Title 9, Public Peace  and
Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Major Dorr, spoke in opposition of the
ordinance, c ommenting on  pe destrian s afety, s peed o f s kateboards by op erators a nd lia bility
concerns.  Speaking in support of the ordinance were Anthony Vibbard, Wyoming Liberty Group,
and Gabriel Pena, President, Downtown Business Co-op (DBC), whose comments included court
fines, safety, current laws in place, and expression that a majority of DBC members favor the change.
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Discussion included the following topics: That not all downtown business
operators were in favor of the ordinance; skateboarders’ permission required from private property
owners; sig nage re quirements; c oncern inv olving inj uries a nd lia bility, a nd su ggestion tha t a
downtown skateboard park be constructed.  Ms. Williams moved to amend by adding the following
language “... The ordinance is a means of travel only in the downtown business district, not a means
of recreational stunts or exhibits unless authorization is permitted by the property owner or owners,
and to take out the $750.00 f ine”, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Discussion followed a nd included:
Written permission requirement from private property owners, signage not being required on private
property, and skateboard uses prohibited on public property unless signage is in place.  It was noted
that ordinance wording, prior to the proposed amendment, does not contain the fine amount, and the
intent of the ordinance is to allow skateboa rding use as a means to travel through the downtown
district.  Motion to amend failed. Voting “yes” -- Dr. Rinne and Ms. Williams.  Voting “no” -- Mr.
Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor, Mr. White and Mayor Kaysen.  Comments
followed in support of the ordinance, and whether a change was justified based upon the minimal
number of citations that have been issued for violations.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Luna, Ms. Williams and Mayor
Kaysen and voting “no”. (#4161)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A ppointing the City  Treasurer to serve on t he Advisory Board of the
participating Municipalities of the L aramie State Small Business Credit I nitiative (“SSBCI ”)
Consortium, which is charged with exercising supervisory responsibility over the activities of the
Wyoming Smart Capital Network, LLC, to ensure the lawful allocation and administration of SSBCI
funding.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5808)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the City  Treasurer to di scharge uncollectible debts in the
amount of $36,085.49 pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5809)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budg et of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5810)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Accepting the conveyance of two parcels of property herein described from
Ms. Stephanie White to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5811)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Barta Subdivision, a replat of Lot 8 and the S½ Lot 1 Block 4, Country Homes Subdivision being
situated in the  northwest ¼ of the nor thwest ¼ Section 17, T13N, R66W, of the 6  Principalth
Meridian, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Pine Avenue, south of College
Drive).  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Following inquiry regarding wording
of the motion, Dr. Rinne clarified his motion should have also included “with revised County Final
Plat map as submitted on November 22, 2016".  Mr. Roybal, as second to the motion, agreed to the
revised motion wording.   Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
present.  (#5812)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Country Homes Fifth Filing, being situated in a portion of the northwest ¼ Section 17, T13N, R66W,
of the 6  Principal Meridian, L aramie County, Wyoming (located east of and a djacent to Pi neth
Avenue, south of College Drive).  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt with revised County Final Plat map as
submitted on November 22, 2016, se conded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Brad Emmons, AVI
Engineering, agent for the applicant, provided information on traffic and drainage studies; regional
detention pond area; address assignments; relationship between the previous agenda item and this
proposed Co unty plat ; traffic a ccess p oints, a nd pe destrian r outes a vailable fo r b oth B arta
Subdivision and Country Homes.  I t was noted the revised plat map addresses many concerns.
Motion to adopt carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5813)
[CA] RESOLUTION - To name th e b uilding lo cated a t 2 416 Sn yder A venue, Cheyenne,
Wyoming, currently known as the Board Of Public Utilities’ Administration/Engineering Building,
to t he ‘ Timothy E . W ilson Bo ard O f Public U tilities’ A dministration/Engineering Bu ilding –
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors - Mr. Cook and Mayor Kaysen) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s Application for a Lan d an d Water
Conservation Fund Grant for a large picnic shelter in Lions Park – referred to Finance Committee.
(Sponsor - Mr. Brown) 
[CA] Volleyball Officiating Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Officials for Fun Club
for adult City league volleyball officiating services for 2017 - 2019.  Motion (per consent agenda)
carried. (#6602)
[CA] Contract between the City  of Chey enne, Transit Division, and Wyoming Department of
Health, Aging Division, to provide supportive services to persons 60 years or older (Title III-B
Program Grant).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried. (#6603)
[CA] Access Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Downtown Development
Authority for the use of a portion of the Depot Plaza for the installation of a synthetic ice skating rink
to be used by the public without charge.  Motion (per consent agenda) carried. (#6604)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and NewGen
Strategies &  Soluti ons, L LC, for the Rig ht-of-Way Cos t Study Project – re ferred to F inance
Committee.
[CA] Addendum No. 4 to City Contract No. 2985 between the City of Cheyenne and the City of
Cheyenne, Wyoming - Laramie County, State of Wyoming Joint Powers Board, to allow a sublease
with Verizon Wi reless for the installation of a te lecommunications facility to improve ce llular
telephone communications adjacent to and within Frontier Par k.  Motion (per consent a genda)
carried. (#2985)
Consideration of Bid #S-6-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Parks &
Recreation Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Cheyenne Greenway,
Saddle Ridge Greenway Connector Project (G rant Funding, Special Purpose Sales &  Use Ta x).
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown moved to accept the bid, including Alternate #1 in the
amount of $375,579.50, and amending to include Alternate #2 in the amount of $100,951.45, to be
funded from general fund reserves, for a total bid amount of $476,530.95, seconded by Mr. Shanor.
Comment was made on a previous request for funding from reserves for a pedestrian crosswalk on
Duff and Pershing, which was not approved, and that the project is still pending.  Dr. Rinne moved
to divide the question to allow for a  separate vote on the base bid including A lternate #1, and
Alternate #2, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to divide the question carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.  Upon inquiry, Dr. Rinne confirmed it was his intent, by
moving to divide the que stion, to discuss and act upon Alternate #2 prior to the base  bid which
includes Alternate #1.  Upon inquiry , Jeff Wiggins, Parks and Recr eation Department, provided
information on initial budgeting for the project, which was anticipated to be at a lower amount, and
additional funding now needed to cover project costs.  Alternate funding streams were discussed
with Mr. Wiggins providing information on the primary sources of funding for Greenway projects
and funding available for this project.  Discussion continued on the possibility of a different funding
source for work to be done under Alternate #2, and that a bid shouldn’t be accepted if there isn’t a
funding source available.  Mr. Brown moved to postpone action on Alternate #2 to December 12,
2016, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Wiggins confirmed that postponement shouldn’t
affect completion of the project, which is anticipated to be in July 2017.  Motion to postpone carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone action on
the base bid with Alternate #1 to December 12, 2016, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to postpone
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-5-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction
Division, and Intermountain Slurry Seal, Inc., North Salt Lake, Utah, for the 2017 Slurry Seal Project
(2015 - 2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s
Office for Bejo Inc. d/b/a Bejo, 112 West 17  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently heldth
by Re-O-Na Sushi & Thai d/b/a Re-O-Na Sushi Bar & Thai Cuisine, 112 West 17  Street, Cheyenne,th
Wyoming).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried.
[CA] Retail liquor license transfer of location application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for
Mason Properties, LLC  d/b/a TBD, 2825 East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per
consent agenda) carried.
Transfer of ownership for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s
Office for  Hig h Plains P izza, I nc. d/b/a Pizz a Hut #261, 5320 Ye llowstone Road, Chey enne,
Wyoming ( License curr ently held by  Piz za Hut on Yello wstone, I nc. d/b/a Pizz a Hut on
Yellowstone, 5320 Yellowstone Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised
that subsequent to the Finance Com mittee’s review an d recommendation of the item, the City
Clerk’s office had received notification from the Wyoming Liquor Division that the delinquent sales
tax issue involving the current licensee had been rectified.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded
by  Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Transfer of ownership for a  restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s
Office for Colvin Properties, LLC d/b/a Pizza Hut #262, 4503 Western Way, Cheyenne, Wyoming
(License currently held by Pizza Hut of Cheyenne, Inc. d/b/a Pizza Hut/Wing Street, 4503 Western
Way, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised that subsequent to the Finance
Committee’s r eview a nd rec ommendation of the item, the City  Clerk’s off ice ha d rec eived
notification from the Wyoming Liquor Division that the del inquent sales tax issue involving the
current licensee had been rectified.  Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at
the January 12, 2017 Wy oming Association of Municipalities Business Mee ting in Chey enne –
referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Noah Bell, Maggie Black, Hannah Brown,
Dawson Eldred, Dylan Fertig, Julia Horst, Taylor Hulburt, Hannah Jankovsky, Keiran Loughran,
Hannah Lumsden, Shelbi Moore, Tanner Robertson, Sawyer Ruben, Ca rolyn Rude and Ke nitra
Shanks to the 2016 - 2017 Mayor’s Youth Council, to be confirmed December 12, 2016.
Under other business:
Jeff Dierksen commented on pedestrian routes discussed earlier in the meeting (agenda items
involving County Final Plats for Barta Subdivision and Country Homes) relative to weather related
Greenway underpass flooding, drainage and icy conditions.  Mr. Dierksen then referenced a previous
petition he had submitted with the City Clerk’s office involving traffic and neighborhood concerns
on Pinto Lane, and presentation of his concerns to the governing body over the past two years.  He
expressed dissatisfaction with no action being taken on the concerns.  He proposed suggestions for
improvements to lower speed limits and traffic volumes and for mitigation of negative conditions
in certain residential neighborhoods impacted by development, and provided detailed information
on Pinto Lane neighborhood conditions involving safety, noise, traffic speed and traffic management
practices.  Nathan Beauheim, Engineering Department, advised that current 25 m.p.h. speed signs
in residential neighborhoods are being removed due to a previous ordinance change; that the City
Engineer doesn’t have discretion to set speed limits, noting recommendations can be made to the
governing body , and that complianc e with WYDOT policy  req uirements must be met when
considering lower speed limits in certain areas within the City.  During his comments, Mr. Beauheim
submitted a map handout (on file with City Clerk’s office) containing information on serious crash
locations within the City in the past 10 years and the level of injuries or occurrence of fatalities.  He
noted there had been one serious traffic incident on Pinto Lane during that time frame and referenced
other higher volume serious crash sites.  Mr. Beauheim provided information on other entrance areas
into the Pint o L ane ne ighborhood, and WYDOT policy  require ments.  During comments t hat
followed on traffic speeds, volume, and schools and businesses within the area, Mr. Shanor raised
a point of order that the other business portion of the meeting agenda is intended for general public
comment, and if there is a specific proposal or issue to be addressed or acted upon the appropriate
mechanism for Council members is to sponsor a regular agenda item to follow the usual process and
to provide notification to the public of intended discussion or action, and that what was being asked
of the governing body at this time is not an appropriate use of the public comment period.  Mayor
Kaysen concurred and requested Mr. Dierksen summarize a concluding statement.  Mr. Dierksen
briefly reiterated his concerns.
Jacob Freeman commented that traffic on Pinto Lane can be dangerous and adding something
to slow student vehicular traffic down would be helpful, noting speed limit signage is not necessarily
recognized by young drivers.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the governing body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:34  p.m.
  Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
December 8, 2016