MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-12-12 | CLIP_ID: 560 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 560

  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
December 12, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk, and
Mark Stewart, representing Davis and Cannon, LLP, Interim City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance
was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.).  Upon request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Roybal and Mr. Brown, Agenda Item #9 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna
moved to approve  remaining Consent Ag enda items, sec onded by Mr. White.  Moti on carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 28, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal each declared a conflict of interest (business interest in vouchers
payable to Ameri-Tech HVAC Services and Tyrrell Chevrolet respectively) and vacated Council
Chambers.  Mr. L una moved to appr ove payment of vouche rs as pre sented, sec onded by Mr.
Johnson.  Up on inquiry, Mayor Kaysen provided information available on a voucher payable to
PeopleReady Inc. (temporary employment services for Solid Waste) and Rick Parish, Director of
Parks and Recreation, provided information on a voucher payable to Summit Engineering LLC
(engineering services to design the  Saddle Ridge  Connector pr oject for use by the contra ctor).
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Brown and Mr. Roybal returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE - 1  READING - Amending Exhibit C of Ordinance No. 4139 defining theST
terms a nd c onditions o f empl oyment fo r s worn of ficers of  the  Che yenne Pol ice Department –
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors - Mr. Brown and Mr. Shanor) 
 
ORDINANCE -  1  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,ST
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MUB - Mixed Use Business to CB -
Community Business for Lots 1 and 2, Block 4 of Anderson Estates 2  Filing, City of Cheyenne,nd
Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to Dell Rang e Boulevard and west of
Windmill Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Dr. Rinne) 
RESOLUTION - To na me the building locat ed at 2416 Sny der A venue, Che yenne,
Wyoming, currently known as the Board Of Public Utilities’ Administration/Engineering Building,
to the ‘Timothy  E. Wil son Boa rd Of Public Utilities’ Administration/Enginee ring Building ’.
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to adopt, seconded by Ms. Williams.
Concern was expressed that the City  does not have  any criteria or policies i n place for naming
buildings after individuals.  Members of the Governing Body expressed their appreciation to Mr.
Wilson for his 38 years of service to the Board of Public Utilities and noted his pending retirement.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne
voting “no”. (#5814)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Supporting  the City of Cheyenne’s Application for a  Land and Water
Conservation Fund Grant for a large picnic shelter in Lions Park.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#5815)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor to sign an amendment to the State Small Business
Credit Initiative Allocation Agreement accepting an additional $59,561.00 in funding to be allocated
to the Collateral Support Program, bringing the total allocation to the Credit Guarantee Program to
$12,776,080.17 and the total alloca tion to the Seed Capital Network Prog ram to $45 1,830.83 –
referred to Finance Committee.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Brown advised that due to
timing involving a funding allocation time line, the item was reviewed under other items for the
agenda at the December 5, 2016 Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City
Code had been met.  Mr. B rown moved to a dopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry , Mayor
Kaysen explained the State of Wy oming previously had the opportunity to receive the allocation
funds and had declined the opportunity, and provided brief information on the City’s participation
in the SSBCI consortium, which also includes other municipalities in the state.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5816) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds – referred to
Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Brown)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budg et of the Cit y of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §16-4-112 and 16-4-113 – r eferred to Financ e Committee.
(Sponsor - Mr. Brown)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing an offer to sell a City -owned property legally described as
Tract 2, Hildreth Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming, to the Department of Veterans Affairs,
for and on behalf of the United States of America, to be used for the establishment of a Veterans’
Cemetery, p ursuant t o Wy o. St at. A nn. §  1 5-1-112(b)(i)(B) –  r eferred to  F inance Co mmittee.
(Sponsors - Mr. Brown and Mayor Kaysen)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Approving a proposition to impose the 1% Specific Purpose  Sales and Use
Tax in Laramie County, State of Wyoming, for the exclusive purpose of funding specific purposes
for specific amounts; the propositions to be voted on at a special election to be held May 2, 2017 –
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Brown)
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and NewGen
Strategies &  Soluti ons, LLC, for the Rig ht-of-Way Cost S tudy Pr oject.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $64,680.00). (#6609)
[CA] Contract between The Nature Conservancy, the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and the County
of Larimer Count y, Colorado, for the coope rative management of 1,800 a cres of land (know n
generally as the Laramie Foothills Red Mountain Ranch - Wyoming, also known as the Big Hole)
– referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5932 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and Solid Waste Professionals of Wyoming, for Happy Jack Landfill Expansion
to extend the contract to December 1, 2020 (Solid Waste Management fund) – referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6541  between the City of Cheyenne, Leisure
Services Division, and Becker Arena Products, Inc., Savage, Minnesota, to increase the arena surface
flooring area a t t he I ce a nd E vent C enter a nd to  in crease th e c ontract a mount a n a dditional
$17,288.37 (Recreation Programs funding) – referred to Finance Committee.
Consideration o f B id # S-6-17 fo r a  c ontract be tween the C ity of Che yenne, Pa rks &
Recreation Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Cheyenne Greenway,
Saddle Ridge Greenway Connector Project (Grant Funding, Special Purpose Sales & Use Tax).  Mr.
Brown moved to approve the base bid plus Alternate #1 in a total amount of $375,579.50, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception
of Ms. Williams voting “no”.  Mr. Brown advised a motion to approve to include Alternate #2 in the
amount of $100,951.45 with funding coming from the General Fund Reserves was not made at the
Finance Committee meeting.  Mr. Brown moved to approve to include Alternate #2 in the amount
of $100,951.45 with funding coming from the General Fund Reserves, seconded by Mr. Johnson.
Discussion topics included: Potential postponement of the item until the next state CREG report is
issued; lack of available 6  penny funding to include Alternate #2; concern with approving base bidth
with Alternate #1 and possible approval, at a later date, of Alternate #2; project construction starting
time frame (spring 2017), and funding available in ge neral fund rese rves.  Upon inquiry , Mark
Stewart, Interim City Attorney, advised there may be some practical and legal concerns regarding
delaying action on the bid relative to Alternate #2, noting the governing body had just approved the
base bid with Alternate #1.  Also upon inquiry, Rick Parish, Director of Parks and Recreation, stated
he was unsure how long the contractor would “hold” the bid offer amount, and suggested a contract
modification could perhaps be considered in the future.  Discussion continued on rationale of having
Alternate #2 included while the contractor was onsite to do work under the base bid and Alternate
#1; approving Alternate #2 to enable  complete connectivity of the g reenway in the are a; use of
reserves for this type of project; 6  Penny projects and funding; seeking alternative funding, andth
treating t his project diff erently than a similar past funding  reque st from rese rves f or the
Pershing/Duff pedestrian crossing project.  Motion to approve Alternate #2 with funding from the
general fund reserves carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Mr.
Roybal, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White.  Voting “no” -- Dr. Rinne, Ms. Williams and Mayor Kaysen.
(#6610)
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S-5-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% Construction
Division, and Intermountain Slurry Seal, Inc., North Salt Lake, Utah, for the 2017 Slurry Seal Project
(2015 - 2018 1%  S ales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed
$431,270.92). (#6611)
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office
for One East Sixteenth, LLC d/b/a TBD, 16 01 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming  (L icense
currently held by Los Abuelos Mexican Restaurant, d/b/a  Los Abuelos Mexican Restaurant, 1601
Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Appointments of Noah Bell, Maggie Black, Hannah Brown, Dawson Eldred, Dylan Fertig,
Julia Horst, Taylor Hulburt, Hannah Jankovsky, Keiran Loughran, Hannah Lumsden, Shelbi Moore,
Tanner Robertson, Sawyer Ruben, Carolyn Rude, and Kenitra Shanks to the 2016 - 2017 Mayor’s
Youth Council.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”, and
Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne at
the J anuary 12, 2017 Wy oming Assoc iation of Municipalities Business Mee ting in Chey enne.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried  (Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, Official Voting Delegate; Bryan
Cook, City Councilman, Alternate Voting Delegate).
[CA] Consideration to  p urchase T hermo-Scientific G emini A nalyzer f rom T hermo Scientific
Portable Analytical Instruments, Inc., Tewksbury, Massachusetts, for Fire and Rescue Department
(Miscellaneous Federal Grants – Homeland Security) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration to purchase Motorola dual-band portable radios, with vehicle chargers, lapel
speaker-microphones and battery clamshells from Wireless Advanced Communications, Evans,
Colorado, for Fire and Rescue Department (Miscellaneous Federal Grants - Homeland Security) –
referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Jeffie J. Wiggins-McMullen to the Fire
Civil Service Commission; George Parks to the Police Civil Service Commission; Pete Illoway to
the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board; Jody Shields and Chuck West to the Board of Adjustment;
Michael A. Metzler, J ason Stephen and Paul Pomeroy to the Contractor L icensing Board; Greg
Palmquist to the City Planning Commission; Carol J. Martin, Patricia Riesland, Howard A. Hill Sr.,
Betty Jean Pearson, Daryl Hensel and Mary E. Richey to t he Mayor’s Council for People with
Disabilities; Morga n Martin to the Historic Prese rvation B oard; Ray  Fe rtig, J r. and Nichola s
Pickering to the Building Code Board of Appeals; and Ted Gertsch and April Mattie to the Housing
and Community Development Advisory Council, to be confirmed December 27, 2016.
Announcement was made of the Appointments of Alice J. Hall and Gunnar Malm to the City
Planning Commission; Jeff Deisch to the B uilding Code B oard of Appeals; Kristi Racines and
Palmer D. Trujillo to the Historic Preservation Board; Tracy Kamm, Julie Tucker and Dana Wood
to the Mayor’s Council for People  with Disabiliti es; Edwin G. Avery to the Chey enne Housing
Authority; Patrick W. Green a nd Lorraine Fresquez to the Personnel Commission; and Dennis
Humphrey to the Contractor Licensing Board, to be confirmed December 27, 2016. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 27, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public comment on
a proposed sale of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, being a parcel of land located in
Tract 2, Hildreth Subdivision, located generally north of Polo Ranch Road, in Section 16, T14N,
R67W of the 6th P.M., Laramie County,  Wyoming, consisting of five (5) acres, more or less, and
having an appraised value of $62,500.00, to the Department of Veterans Affairs, for and on behalf
of the United States of America, to be used for the establishment of a Veterans’ Cemetery.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 27, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public comment
regarding the intent of the City of Cheyenne to submit an application to the Wyoming Business
Council’s Business Ready Community, Business Committed Grant Prog ram, to assist in funding
Project Edible.
Announcement was made that due to the Christmas Holiday and City offices being closed
on Monday, December 26, 2016, the regularly scheduled meeting of the Governing Body will instead
be held on Tuesday, December 27, 2016 beginning at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101
O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
Under other business:
Ms. Williams inquired as to repair of a damaged guard rail on W. 19  St. and Deming withth
Vicki Neme cek, D irector of Public Works, providing  information on the status of re pair a nd
difficulty in findi ng someone to re spond to the bid to do the work, which is complex in nature.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning bo dy, the meeting wa s
officially adjourned at 6:34 p.m.
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
December 23, 2016