MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2016-12-27 | CLIP_ID: 562 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 562

  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
December 27, 2016
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6 :00 p .m. i n C ouncil C hambers.  P resent w ere: M AYOR -  R ichard L.  K aysen; C OUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Also present: Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk, and
Amanda E sch, re presenting Da vis and Cannon, L LP, I nterim City  Attor ney.  The pledge of
allegiance was recited.
Presentation to May or Richard L. Kaysen from the Wy oming Military Department and
Wyoming Veterans Commission.  Ma jor General Luke Reiner, Wyoming Military Department,
recognized Mayor Kaysen for his history of service and support to the military and his community
service to the City , and aw arded Mayor Kaysen with the d istinctive title of H onorary Wyoming
Cowboy Colonel.  L arry Barttlebort, Director of the  Wyoming Veterans Commission, read the
citation bestowing the title to Mayor Kaysen and presented him with an engraved plaque.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.).  Upon request by Mr. Brown, and pursuant to support received by
Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor, item #13 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Ms.
Williams, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Rinne and Mr. Cook, item #18(a) was removed
from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pur suant to support received by Mr.
Cook and Mr. Shanor, item #19(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to
approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 12, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell
Chevrolet) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to
Council Chambers.
Mayor Kaysen opened a public hearing to receive comments and input on a proposed sale
of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, being a parcel of land located in Tract 2, Hildreth
Subdivision, located generally north of Polo Ranch Road, in Section 16, T14N, R67W of the 6th
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, consisting of five (5) acres, more or less, and having an appraised
value of $62,500.00, to the Department of Veterans Affairs, for and on behalf of the United States
of America, to be used for the establishment of a Veterans’ Cemetery.  There being no comments
or input, Mayor Kaysen closed the public hearing.
Mayor Kaysen announced a public hearing to r eceive comments and input re garding the
intent of the City of Cheyenne to submit an application to the Wyoming Business Council’s Business
Ready Community, Business Committed Grant Program, to assist in funding Projec t Edible was
being cancelled as the applicant has provided notification that the Project will not be moving forward
and the purpose of the hearing was no longer needed.
ORDINANCE - 2  READING - Amending Exhibit C of Ordinance No. 4139 defining thend
terms and conditions of employment for sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department.  Chief
Brian Kozak, Police Department, provided an overview of the changes contained in the proposed
ordinance and explained the purpose of restructuring certain upper management officer positions and
salaries, noting initial cost savings will be “budget neutral” and that the changes are anticipated to
assist with recruitment, retention and promotion opportunities.  Reporting for Finance Committee,
Mr. Brown moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Chief Kozak
provided information on promotional testing and f uture requirement for a bachelor’s degree  for
lieutenant positions.  Discussion included employee retention; addressing additional fiscal related
issues at budget time, and that other departments have also been restructured over the years.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE -  2  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2.2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,nd
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MUB -Mixed Use Business to CB -
Community Business for Lots 1 and 2, Block 4 of Anderson Estates 2  Filing, City of Cheyenne,nd
Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of an d adjacent to Dell Rang e Boulevard and west of
Windmill Road).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second
reading, seconded by Mr. J ohnson.  Request was made  that Planning a nd Development staff be
aware of traffic and safety concerns relating to proposed property use.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body. 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5817)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 and 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5818) 
RESOLUTION - Authorizing an offer to sell a City -owned property legally described as
Tract 2, Hildreth Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming, to the Department of Veterans Affairs,
for and on behalf of the United States of America, to be used for the establishment of a Veterans’
Cemetery, pursuant to Wyo. Stat. Ann. § 15-1-112(b)(i)(B).  Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded
by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5819) 
RESOLUTION - Approving a proposition to impose the 1% Specific Purpose  Sales and Use
Tax in Laramie County, State of Wyoming, for the exclusive purpose of funding specific purposes
for specific amounts; the propositions to be voted on at a special election to be held May 2, 2017.
Mr. Brown moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. Brown moved to amend by substitute
dated December 16, 2016, seconded by Ms. Williams.  Upon request, Amanda Esch, Interim City
Attorney, advised the substitute provides correlation in wording with the County’s resolution, and
noted a change in Proposition 3 (proposed funding  to construct Christensen Road be tween
Commerce Circle and U.S. Highway 30).  Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body.  Mr. Brown moved to amend Proposition 8 (e) by removing $3,200,000.00 for
the purchase of land for a future community park to be located in east Cheyenne and replacing it with
$3,200,000.00 to be used for City streets and pavement maintenance and improvements, including
construction, reconstruction, renovation, and grant match for maintenance projects, seconded by Ms.
Williams.  Comment was made that the proposed amendment is geared toward meeting the needs
of current street conditions as opposed to funding going toward the acquisition of proposed park land
that may or may  not be deve loped in the future  as a c ommunity park.  Concern was expressed
regarding the “packaging” of projects in the ballot proposition.  Phyllis Salzburg spoke in opposition
to the motion to amend and in support of planning for future open space and parks as the community
grows.  Dale Keizer, owner of the proposed park land, provided information on the family’s offer
to the City and being pro-active in acquiring the land, noting an east community park is included in
Parks and Recreation Department’s master plan, and stated support for allowing voters to decide on
the proposition.  Discussion included the following topics: Concerns with potholes, street conditions
and infrastructure needs; grouping of ballot proposition projects; community growth and amenities;
state legislative intent involving authorization and use of 6  penny sales tax funds; growth and futureth
needs for the eastern side of the community; existing neighborhood needs; use of established large
community pa rks v s. sma ll n eighborhood pa rks; c olloborative c onsensus pr ocess u tilized to
determine 6  penny projects; Uniform Development Code requirements for open space, and pastth
public/private cooperative efforts involving the North Cheyenne Community Park.  Mayor Kaysen
advised development of the North Cheyenne park involved a partnership between the City and many
individuals.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Brown, Mr. White and Ms. Williams.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor and Mayor
Kaysen.  Ms. Williams moved to amend by removing the following dollar amounts and projects from
County and City propositions:  Proposition 5(d) $2,350,000 (Cheyenne downtown core projects);
Proposition 5(e) $3,800,000 (Cheyenne Greenway); Proposition 6(a) $6,750,000 (City of Cheyenne
multipurpose indoor turf facility); Proposition 7(f) $7,050,000 (basketball and volleyball courts and
gymnastics facilities at the Ice and Events Center); Proposition 8(b), $2,500,000 (public access to
Belvoir Ranch and Big Hole properties and recreational trails) and Proposition 8(e) $3,200,000 (City
of Che yenne to p urchase la nd fo r a  fu ture community pa rk in e ast C heyenne), a nd to u se
$21,000,000 of these funds to acquire a new location for Municipal Court with the balance of funds
to be evenly split between Council Ward I, Ward II and Ward II to use for infrastructure needs such
as potholes, roadways, curbs and gutters, and drainage.  Mayor Kaysen noted the governing body can
only address those projects involving City of Cheyenne proposition requests and not the County’s
projects.  Motion to amend died due to lack of a second.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#5820)
RESOLUTION - Supporting the expedient completion of the West Edg e Civic Center
Commons in the manner and location as it is currently designed and planned – referred to Public
Services Committee (Sponsors - Mr. Cook, Mr. J ohnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roy bal, Mr. White and
Mayor Kaysen).  Dr.  Rinne advised the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the
December 20, 2016 Public Services Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City
Code had been met.  Dr . Rinne moved to adopt, seconde d by Mr. Roybal.  Dis cussion included
purpose of the resolution to reiterate support for the project as initially intended and designed and
to assure the community and private business investors that the project will move forward, and past
support expressed through various approval actions of the governing body.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Brown voting “no”. (#5821)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the  Ma yor a nd City  Cle rk to e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government Grant Agreement for attendance at the 2017 Saving
Places Conference – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor - Mr. Brown)
[CA] RESOLUTION - To name the building complex located at 1328 Talbot Court in the City of
Cheyenne as the ‘Ronnald J. J effrey Youth Complex ’ – re ferred to Public Services Committ ee.
(Sponsors - Mr. Cook, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White)
 Contract between The Nature Conservancy, the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming,  and the County
of Larimer County, Colorado, for the  cooperative management of 1,80 0 acres of land (known
generally as the Laramie Foothills Red Mountain Ranch - Wyoming, also known as the Big Hole).
Mr. Brown moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Discussion included past contracts with
The Nature Conservancy for management of the area, including the building of trails, and proposed
contract relative to acc ess.  Upon inquiry , Seth L loyd, Development Department, explained the
cooperative contract provides for a management plan for the Big Hole and provided information on
contract provisions involving the entities involved.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body with the exception of Ms. Williams voting “no”. (#6612)
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Saddlehorn Pipeline Company, LLC, to
install a crude  oil pipeline within a portion of the City ’s public right-of-way and setting  a fe e –
referred to Finance Committee.
Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 5932 between the City of Cheyenne, Public
Works Department, and Solid Waste Professionals of Wyoming, for Happy Jack Landfill Expansion
to extend the contract to December 1, 2020 (Solid Waste Management fund).  Mr. Brown moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Discussion included the variance process for landfill expansion;
costs incurre d; landfill life time frame , and DEQ  sta ndards.  Matt Theriault, Public Works
Department, provided information on money set aside for cap and closure that is being diverted to
complete vertical design and expansion, and Craig LaVoy, Deputy Public Works Director, provided
information on the anticipated time frame in which solid waste will no longer be hauled to Ault, CO,
and expected cost savings, noting legislative rules (DEQ) have changed resulting in extended life
of landfill spac e.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all members of the g overning body with the
exception of Mr. Luna voting “no”. (#5932)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6541  between the City of Cheyenne, Leisure
Services Division, and Becker Arena Products, Inc., Savage, Minnesota, to increase the arena surface
flooring are a at the I ce a nd Event s Center a nd to increa se the c ontract amount an additional
$17,288.37 (Recreation Programs funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6541)
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6307 between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for additional design services and construction management for the Lake Minnehaha
Remediation Phase 2 Project (County Consensus Block Grant) – referred to Finance Committee.
Re-Appointments of Jeffie J. W iggins-McMullen to the Fir e Civil S ervice Commission;
George Parks to th e Police Civil S ervice Commission; Pete I lloway to the Chey enne Regional
Airport Board; Jody Shields and Chuck West to the Board of Adjustment; Michael A. Metzler, Jason
Stephen and Paul Pomeroy  to the Contractor Licensing Board; Greg Palmquist to the City Planning
Commission; Carol J. Martin, Patricia Riesland, Howard A. Hill Sr., Betty Jean Pearson, Daryl
Hensel and  Mary E. Richey  to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities; Morgan Martin
to the Historic Prese rvation Board; Ray Fertig, Jr. and N icholas Pickering to the Building  Code
Board of Appeals; and Ted Gertsch and April Mattie to the Housing and Community Development
Advisory Council.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no” a nd
Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
Appointments of Alice J. Hall and Gunnar Ma lm to the Ci ty Planning Commission;  Jeff
Deisch to the Building Code Board of Appeals; Kristi Racines and Palmer D. Trujillo to the Historic
Preservation Board; Tracy Kamm, Julie Tucker and Dana Wood to the Mayor’s Council for People
with Disabilities; Edwin G. Avery  to the Chey enne Housing Authority; Patrick W. Green a nd
Lorraine Fresquez to the Personnel Commission; and Dennis Humphrey to the Contractor Licensing
Board.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (Ma yoral
appointees).
[CA] Consideration to  pu rchase Th ermo-Scientific Gemini Analyzer from T hermo Scientific
Portable Analytical Instruments, Inc., Tewksbury, Massachusetts, for Fire and Rescue Department
(Miscellaneous Fe deral Gra nts – Homeland Sec urity).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried
(amount not to exceed $95,200.00).
[CA] Consideration to purchase Motorola dual-band portable radios, with vehicle chargers, lapel
speaker-microphones and battery clamshells from Wireless Advanced Communications, Evans,
Colorado, for Fire and Rescue Department (Miscellaneous Federal Grants - Homeland Security).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $45,414.90).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held January 9, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance
of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exists for Tract 71 and portions
of Tracts 70 & 72, Allison Tracts, 2nd Filing and adjacent right of way, being situated in a portion
of the SW¼, NW¼, and the NW¼, SW¼ of Section 8, T13N, R66W of the 6  Principal Meridianth
in Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of W. Allison Road
and Walterscheid Blvd.). 
Announcement was made that the Sine Die meeting of the Governing Body and First Regular
Meeting of the Governing Body will be held Tuesday, January 3, 2017 beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the
Cheyenne Civic Center, 510 West 20th Street; reception to follow in the Civic Center Lobby.
Announcement was made  that due to the Sine Die a nd First Reg ular Mee tings of the
Governing B ody on Tuesday , J anuary 3, 2017, reg ularly schedule d City  Council Comm ittee
meetings will inst ead be held on Wednesday , January 4, 2017 in the Municipal BuiI ding, 2101
O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee will meet at 11:00
a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet at Noon.
Under other business:
Jeff Dierksen referenced comments he had made at the November 27, 2016 City Council
meeting and affiliated petition previously submitted to the City Clerk’s office concerning residential
speed limits on Pi nto Lane.  Mr. Dierksen commented on speed study methodology and national
practices, and WYDOT rules.  He  requested the City Attorney write WYDOT to re quest policy
determination regarding speed study measurements. 
Mr. J ohnson co ngratulated t he l ocal C asket Hu ffer b and fo r b eing re cognized t hrough
favorable review in a national magazine, and recognized Sam’s Club employees for purchasing and
donating toilet paper to the Comea Shelter.  He also recognized Andersen Podiatry Center’s Shoes
for t he Ho meless P roject, t hanking the m f or the ir e fforts i n c ollecting a nd do nating sh oes to
homeless shelters.
Ms. Williams requested the community’s assistance in being vigilant in continuing efforts
with law enforcement to provide any information which may help to find the body of a recently
murdered local baby.
There bei ng no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 7:58 p.m.
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
January 7, 2016