MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-01-09 | CLIP_ID: 567 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 567

  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
January 9, 2017
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS
- Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott
Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl,
City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.).  Mr. Luna moved to approve the Consent Agenda, seconded by
Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 27, 2016.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from “Sine Die” Session of the Governing Body on January 3, 2017.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from the First Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 3, 2017.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Johnson moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. White.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input to determine whe ther
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exists for Tract 71 and
portions of Tracts 70 & 72, Allison Tracts, 2nd Filing and adjacent right of way, being situated in
a portion of the SW¼, NW¼, and the NW¼, SW¼ of Section 8, T13N, R66W of the 6  Principalth
Meridian in Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of W.
Allison Road and Walter scheid Blvd.).  E ric Ha mmer, De velopment Depa rtment, provided
information on the property requested by the landowners to be annexed and reviewed requirements
of and compliance with annexation conditions contained in state statutes.  Bonnie Reider, adjacent
property owner, read a message she had sent to the governing body expressing her concerns with the
proposed annexation and affiliated zone change ordinance which would involve annexing only a
portion of Waltersche id Blvd. and West Allison R oad, which w ill affect her prope rty; creating
county pockets; cur b, g utter and sidew alk maintenanc e, and e mergency responde rs and law
enforcement jurisdiction.  Ms. Reider requested consideration to either include all of Walterscheid
Blvd. or exclude Walterscheid and West Allison Road from the annexation area, and to postpone
action on the item to obtain more in formation on annexation impact.  Curt Buchhammer, general
counsel for South Cheyenne Water and Sewer (SCWS) District, expressed his opinion that not all
statutory requirements had been met relative to certified mailing notification to landowners within
the territory (i.e. the District) and protection of health, safety and welfare of persons residing in the
area to be annexed.  He questioned what purpose the annexation would serve; noted services already
being provided to the prope rty by the District and t hose involving County  and City  emergency
response and law enforcement services; commented that additional investigation and research is
needed, and requested postponement.  Ben Marszalek, Vice President, SCWS District, referenced
the 1970 ag reement between the City and the District a nd expressed his opinion that there wa s
nothing in the agreement that provided for the City to annex only a portion of the D istrict.  Brad
Emmons, AVI, agent for the applicant, provided a brief background on purpose of the applicant
requesting annexation and  replatting of the property, which is to address a legal property trust issue.
Mr. Emmons noted they had met recently with the District and the District had recommended that
the summary  of anne xation repor t (i.e. und er Annexation Report Data ( iii) contained in the
Annexation Report and Staff Report supporting documentation) include wording that extension of
services initiated by the property owner would be to the SCWS District, which would clarify that if
the property is annexed applicable services would be through the SCWD District and not the City’s
Board of Public Utilities.  Mayor Orr noted for those present that there would be no action taken on
the proposed annexation at the conclusion of the public hearing as the purpose of the hearing is to
allow the opportunity  for public c omment.  She further  noted Ag enda Items #13 and #14 ar e
ordinances related to the public hearing and would not be discussed or acted upon at the meeting as
they are  on first rea ding a nd would be re ferred to P ublic Service s Commi ttee for  revie w and
recommendation, including a dditional opportunity for public c omment.  May or Orr advised the
Committee will meet January 18, 2017 at noon in Room #122, Municipal Building.  There being no
further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the public
hearing.
ORDINANCE - 3  READING - Amending Exhibit C of Ordinance No. 4139 defining therd
terms a nd c onditions o f employment f or sw orn o fficers of  the  Che yenne Pol ice De partment.
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded
by Mr. White.  Comment was made regarding research of state statutes relative to individuals who
would like to enter Police Department employment at an upper level vs. entry level position.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4162)
 
ORDINANCE -  3  REA DING - Pursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Z oning Ma p A mendments,rd
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MUB -Mixed Use Business to CB -
Community Business for Lots 1 and 2, Block 4 of Anderson Estates 2  Filing, City of Cheyenne,nd
Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of a nd adjacent to Dell Rang e Boulevard and west of
Windmill Road).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third
and final reading, seconded by Mr. L una.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body. (#4163)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 (b) of the CheyenneST
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 2.1.1 for the purpose of creating a subdivision
plat waiver process for limited lot line adjustments of platted properties -- referred to Public Services
Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Tract 71ST
and portions of Tracts 70 & 72, Allison Tracts, 2  Filing and adjacent right of way, being situatednd
in portions of the SW¼, NW ¼, and the NW¼, SW¼, of Section 8, T13N, R66W of the 6 Principalth
Meridian in Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of W.
Allison Road and Waltersheid B lvd.) -- r eferred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr.
Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – Pu rsuant to Sections 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,st
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR – Medium Density Residential to
MR-2 – Medium Density Residential – Developing for Tract 71 and portions of Tra cts 70 & 72,
Allison Tracts, 2nd F iling located in the SW¼, of  Section 8, T13N, R66W of the 6  Principalth
Meridian in Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located near the intersection of W. Allison Road
and Walterscheid Boulevard) to be known as Rorabaugh Subdivision -- referred to Public Services
Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – Pu rsuant to Sections 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,st
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, chang ing the zoning classific ation from L R-1 Low Density Residential – 
Established to NR-1 Neighborhood Residential – Moderate Density for Lot 1, Block 5, Eastridge
Third Filing Subdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at 1800 Milton
Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing th e Ma yor a nd City  Cle rk to e xecute a  Sta te Hi storic
Preservation Office Certified Local Government Grant Agreement for attendance at the 2017 Saving
Places Conference.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5825)
 RESOLUTION - To name the building complex located at 1328 Talbot Court in the City of
Cheyenne as the ‘Ronnald J. J effrey Youth Complex’.  Commenting in support of the  resolution
were Jay Sullivan and Dr. Dick Berry, Youth Alternatives office; Diane Humphrey, former Laramie
County Commi ssioner; J ohn Sanford, Ka ren B rooks-Lyons, principal, He nderson Ele mentary
School, Floyd Esquibel and Paulette Gadlin.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.
Comments in support of the resolution recognizing the community services provided by Mr. Jeffrey
were made by City Council members as well as non-support, due to lack of established criteria on
honoring individuals with this type of recognition and to voice opposition on behalf of the “unsung
youth” who have not been positively affected by services provided by Youth Alternatives.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne and Mr.
Johnson voting “no”. (#5826)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Eastridge
Fifth Filing, a replat of Lot 1 Block 5 of ‘Eastridge Third Filing’ located at 1800 Milton Drive, City
of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast cor ner of Milton Drive and
Durham Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for South
Ridge Addition, a replat of Lot 2, Block 1 and a 20’ wide alley of Estevan’s Subdivision, situate
within a portion of the SW¼ NW¼ Section 34, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Laramieth
County, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Randy Road, west of Ridge Road) -- referred
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . 16-4-112 & 16-4-113 -- r eferred to Financ e Committ ee.
(Sponsor - Mr. Luna) 
[CA] Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Saddlehorn Pipeline Company, LLC, to
install a crude  oil pipeline within a portion of the City ’s public rig ht-of-way and setting  a fe e.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6613)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Pointe Homeowners
Association to install and enhance landscaping along a portion of the Greater Cheyenne Greenway --
referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6307 between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres
Associates for additional design services and construction management for the Lake Minnehaha
Remediation Phase 2 Projec t (County Consensus Block G rant).  Motion (pe r Consent Ag enda)
carried (in the amount of $20,140.00). (#6307)
Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King Holiday on Monday, January
16, 2017, reg ularly schedule d City  Council Comm ittee meeting s will inst ead be  held in the
Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance
Committee will meet Tuesday, January 17, 2017 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will
meet Wednesday, January 18, 2017 at Noon.
Under other business, Mr. Johnson congratulated the local Sean Curtis Band for receiving
awards at the 2016 Rocky Mountain Country Music Awards; thanked individuals providing snow
removal services to those residents who are unable to do so and those who have donated to several
other recent community based efforts involving toilet paper for the Comea Shelter, shoes for the
homeless and toy drive benefitting youth recipients of Youth Alternatives’ Kinship Program.  He
advised of current community efforts to provide donations of trash bags to the Comea Shelter and
paperback books for Laramie County Sheriff’s Department prisoners.
There being  no further  business to come before the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 6:53 p.m.
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
January 20, 2017