MEETING: Sine Die Session and First Regular Meeting | DATE: 2017-01-03 | CLIP_ID: 569 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 569

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
January 3, 2017
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in “Sine Die” Session on this date at 6:00
p.m. in the Cheyenne Civic Center.  Those present were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Jim Brown, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,
Dicky Shanor, Jeff White and Annette Williams.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk.  The
pledge of allegiance, led by members of the Mayor’s Youth Council, was recited.
Mayor Ka ysen welcomed those in attenda nce and stated the purpose  of the “ Sine Die”
session was administrative in nature to ceremonially recognize outgoing Council members for their
years of service on City Council, as well as the outgoing City Council President for 2016.
At Mayor Kaysen’s request, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, read a ceremonial resolution in its
entirety ho noring ou tgoing Cou ncil m ember Jim B rown, e ntitled a s f ollows:  “ A R esolution in
Recognition of the Honorable Jim Brown for his dedication and outstanding contributions to the City
of Cheyenne and its residents.”  Mayor Kaysen presented Mr. Brown with a framed version of the
Resolution and expressed appreciation to Mr. Brown for his 10 years of service on City Council and
to the community. Mr. Brown briefly commented on his terms of service as a City Council member.
(#5822)
At Mayor Kaysen’s request, Ms. Intlekofer read a ceremonial resolution in its entirety honoring
outgoing Council member Annette Williams, entitled as follows:  “A Resolution in recognition of the
Honorable Annette Williams for her dedication and outstanding contributions to the City of Cheyenne
and its residents.”  Mayor Kaysen presented Ms. Williams with a framed version of the Resolution and
expressed appr eciation to Ms. W illiams for her 4 y ears of servic e on City  Council and to the
community.  Ms. Williams briefly commented on he r term of  service as a City  Council member.
(#5823)
Mayor Kaysen relinquished duties of the cha ir to City Council President Bryan Cook.  Mr.
Cook requested Ms. Intlekofer read a ceremonial resolution in its entirety honoring Mr. Kaysen as
outgoing Mayor, entitled as follows: “A Resolution in recognition of the Honorable Richard L. Kaysen
for his dedication and outstanding contributions to the City of Cheyenne and its residents.”  Mr. Cook
presented Mr. Kaysen with a framed version of the Resolution and also presented him with a gavel
plaque depicting his 8 years of service as Mayor.  Mayor Kaysen briefly commented on his 2 terms as
Mayor. (#5824)
Mr. Cook then returned duties of the chair to Mayor Kaysen.  On behalf of the governing body,
Mayor Kaysen expressed appreciation to Mr. Cook for his leadership as City Council President for
2016 and presented him with an engraved gavel plaque.  Mr. Cook briefly commented on his service
as City Council President for the past year.
Mayor Kaysen announced the First Regular Meeting of the governing body involving newly
elected and continuing members would convene after a musical performance by The Squash Blossoms.
There being no further business previously noted for the “Sine Die” Session and purpose of
the meeting having been met, the meeting was officially adjourned at 6:23 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
PUBLISH: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
January 9, 2017
   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
January 3, 2017
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne assembled for its First Regular Meeting for
2017 on this date at the Cheyenne Civic Center.  Prior to the meeting  being officially convened,
Dave Lerner presided as Master of Ceremonies for pre-meeting activities which began at 6:30 p.m..
It was noted purpose  of the F irst Reg ular Mee ting wa s administrative in nature.  D uring the
activities, posting of colors was conducted by members of the Cheyenne Police Department and
Cheyenne Fire and Rescue D epartment Honor Gua rd; an invoca tion was provided by  the Ver y
Reverend Carl Gallinger, Diocesan Administrator, Diocese of Cheyenne, and the Honorable Matt
Mead, Governor of the State of Wyoming, presented a Governor’s address.  The Honorable Justice
William U. Hill, Wyoming Supreme Court, administered the oath of office to Mayor Marian J. Orr
and to the following newly elected and re-elected members of City Council: Pete Laybourn and Jeff
White, Ward I; Bryan M. Cook and Dicky  Shanor, Ward II, and Rocky S. Case and Mike L una,
Ward III.  Welcoming comments were made Mayor Orr.
Mayor Orr officially called the First Regular Meeting of the governing body to order at 7:03
p.m. at the Cheyenne Civic Center.  Those present were: MAYOR - Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL
MEMBERS - Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, P ete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff  White.  Also present was Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Approval of appointment of City  Officials (pursuant to Title 2 of the Code of the  City of
Cheyenne).  Mayor Orr stated that, pursuant to state law, as these are Mayoral appointees, she would
not be participating in d iscussion or voting on the proposed appointments.  M r. Luna moved to
approve the appointee s “en ma sse”, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Johnson moved to divide the
question to allow for a separate vote on each of the proposed appointees, seconded by Mr. Roybal.
Motion failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal and Dr. Rinne.  Voting “no” --
Mr. Case, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White.  M ain motion carried with all
members of the governing body voting “yes” with the exception of Mr. J ohnson voting “no” and
Mayor Orr not casting a vote.
Election of City Council President for 2017.  Mayor Orr stated that, pursuant to City Code,
the mayor conducts the elec tion for Council Pr esident but does not cast a vote .  Mr. L aybourn
moved to nominate and elect Mr. Shanor as City Council President for 2017, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Mr. Shanor accepted the nomination.  Mr. Luna moved that nominations cease, seconded by Mr.
Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of
Mayor Orr who did not vote.  Motion to nominate and elect Mr. Shanor as City Council President
carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting
“no” and Mayor Orr who did not vote.
Election of City Council Vice President for 2017.  Mayor Orr stated that, pursuant to City
Code, the mayor conducts the election for Council Vice-President but does not ca st a vote.  Mr.
Shanor moved to nominate and elect Dr. Rinne as City Council Vice President for 2017, seconded
by Mr. Luna.  Dr. Rinne accepted the nomination.  Mr. White moved to nominate and e lect Mr.
Johnson as City Council Vice President for 2017, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Johnson accepted
the nomination.  Mr. Shanor moved that nominations cea se, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who
did not vote.  Motion to nominate and elect Dr. Rinne as City Council Vice President for 2017 car
ried.  Voting “yes”-- Mr. Case, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.  Voting “no” --
Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  Mayor Orr did not vote.
Following the benediction by the Very Reverend Carl Gallinger, Mayor Orr announced light
refreshments would be served in the Civic Center lobby following adjournment of the meeting, and
extended appre ciation to those involved in the prog ram a ctivities and City  staff, or ganization
members and individuals who assisted with arrangements for the evening’s meetings. 
There being no further business previously noted for the First Regular Meeting and purpose
of the meeting have been met, the meeting was officially adjourned at 7:17 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
January 9, 2017