MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-01-23 | CLIP_ID: 572 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 572

  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
January 23, 2017
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS
- Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott
Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl,
City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.).  Mr. Cook moved to approve the Consent Agenda, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 9, 2017.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell
Chevrolet) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to
Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 (b) of the Cheyennend
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 2.1.1 for the purpose of creating a subdivision
plat waiver process for limited lot line adjustments of platted properties.  Re porting for Public
Services Committee, Mr. Ro ybal moved to approve  on second r eading, seconded by Mr. Case.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Tract 71 andnd
portions of Tracts 70 & 72, Allison Tracts, 2  Filing and adjacent right of way, being situated innd
portions of the SW¼, NW ¼, and the NW¼, SW¼, of Section 8, T13N, R66W of the 6  Principalth
Meridian in Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of W.
Allison Road and Waltersheid Blvd.).  Bonnie Reider, adjacent property owner, spoke in opposition
to the proposed annexation, noting that, if the ordinance is approved, her property would still be in
the county, and citing concerns with only annexing a portion of Walterscheid Blvd. and
responsibilities she may incur relating to snow removal and curb and gutter maintenance.  M r.
Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Upon inquiry, Brad Emmons,
AVI, agent for the applicant, provided information on general policy regarding annexation of roads
to connect with those within t he City closest to the prope rty to be ann exed, and Eric Ha mmer,
Development Department, verified that a representative from the South Cheyenne Water and Sewer
District (SCWSD) was not in attendance at the meeting, therefore, he was unsure if their concerns
had been resolved.  Discussion included extending Walterscheid Blvd. to South Greeley Highway
and comments made by the attorney for the SCWSD at the public hearing.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. 
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – Pu rsuant to Sections 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR – Medium Density Residential to
MR-2 – Medium Density Residential – Developing for Tract 71 and portions of Tracts 70 & 72,
Allison Tracts, 2nd Filing located in the SW¼, of Section 8, T13N, R66W of the 6  Principalth
Meridian in Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located near the intersection of W. Allison Road
and Walterscheid Boulevard) to be known as Rorabaugh Subdivision.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – Pu rsuant to Sections 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code , changing the zoning classification f rom LR-1 Low Density R esidential--
Established to NR-1 Neighborhood Residential -- Moderate Density for Lot 1, Block 5, Eastridge
Third Filing subdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at 1800 Milton
Drive).  Mayor Orr advised the a pplicant had submitted a re quest that the ordinance, as we ll as
affiliated Agenda Item #13 (Resolution for Final Plat for Eastridge Fifth Filing) be withdrawn from
the agenda.  U pon inquiry to Cit y Council members and no objection being  raised, Ma yor Orr
announced the ordinance and affiliated resolution were being withdrawn from the agenda.
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – Amending the Major Street Plan Official Map 2015, byst
adding the following roadway segments: Storey Boulevard extension from Highland Drive to Beckle
Road and Van Buren Avenue extension from Opal Drive to Storey Boulevard – referred to Public
Services Committee.  (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE –  1  REA DING – A mending Se ction 5 .36.030, Public A ddresses,st
Entertainment and Advertising on Streets, of Chapter 5.36, Circuse s, Carnivals and Amuse ment
Rides, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming
– referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor - Mr. Johnson)
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Eastridge
Fifth Filing, a replat of Lot 1 Block 5 of ‘Eastridge Third Filing ’located at 1800 Milton Drive, City
of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast cor ner of Milton Dri ve and
Durham Road). [Clerk’s note:  As previously noted earlier in the meeting, the item was withdrawn
from the agenda.]
 
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for South
Ridge Addition, a replat of Lot 2, Block 1 and a 20’ wide alley of Estevan’s Subdivision, situate
within a portion of the SW¼ N W¼ Section 34, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Laramieth
County, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Randy Road, west of Ridg e Road).   Patr ice
Gapen, property owner in the vicinity, spoke in opposition to the resolution citing concerns with the
proposed low income housing project; another low income housing project planned for the area, and
drainage, parking, traffic control and single point of access.  Ms. Gapen encouraged either denial or
postponement of the resolution.  Bill Fehringer, Civil Engineering Professionals, Inc., agent for the
applicant, provided information regarding the Final Plat, which will divide the lot into four parcels;
Wyoming Community Development Authority’s review and approval for the project; setbacks, oil
pipeline located on an adjacent property; proposed detention pond, and access availability of Fire
Department response vehicles to the site.  He advised a site plan had been submitted to the City on
this date.  Mr. Roy bal moved to adopt with staff  recommendations #1 and 2, sec onded by Mr.
Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Fehringer explained the detention pond would be located west of the
existing chiropractor and restaurant businesses and provided information on proposed height of the
buildings.  Discus sion in cluded th e de tention po nd; he ight o f b uildings; c oncern wi th t raffic
congestion and single access point, and comment that the site plan will hopefully contain remedies
for c oncerns expressed.  Upon re quest, Carol I ntlekofer, City  Cl erk, read into the re cord the
following two staff recommendations contained within the motion: Add a block number to the Final
Plat map and add “Cheyenne” in the appropriate location of the title block on t he Final Plat map.
Seth Lloyd, Development Department, clarified that site plans do not come before City Council for
approval.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Case, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor and Mr.
White.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna and Dr. Rinne.  Mayor Orr confirmed she
did not cast a vote. [Clerk’s note: Following adjournment of the meeting and pursuant to requirement
of City Code, which requires a majority affirmative vote of governing body members present for the
item to pass (i.e. six “yes” votes), it was determined the resolution failed].
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. 16-4-112 & 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5827)
RESOLUTION – Designating the Sundays during 2017 that annual liq uor licensees may
extend dispensing room hours of operation for sales until 2:00 a.m. the following day – referred to
Finance Committee (Sponsor - Mr. Luna).  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna advised that
due to timing involving the requested dates, the  item was reviewed under other items for the agenda
at the January 17, 2017 Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code
had been met.  M r. Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  K evin Georges, Laramie
County Liquor Association, provided a brief history involving the annual request.  Carol Intlekofer,
City Clerk, clarified the dates of the four requested Sundays were: February 5  (Super Bowl Sunday),th
July 23  (first weekend of Frontier Days), September 3  (Labor Day weekend) and December 31rd rd st
(New Year’s Eve).  Comment was made regarding City ordinance restriction of Sunday operating
hours.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5828)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the Plan: Official Map for Storey Boulevard/Summit Road and
Van Buren Avenue including 10% Design Plan – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor -
Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION -  A uthorizing the M ayor and the City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for
Rorabaugh Subdivision, a replat of Tract 71 and portions of Tracts 70 & 72, Allison  Tracts, 2nd
Filing, located in a portion of the SW ¼, NW ¼, of Section 8, T 13 N, R 66 W of the 6th Principal
Meridian in Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located near the intersection of W. Allison Road
and Walterscheid Boulevard)  – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – A uthorizing the M ayor a nd City Cle rk to a ccept a nd e xecute a  Sta te
Historic Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) Grant Agreement for the
Architectural A ssistance Plan for the 2017 Historic Cheyenne Facade Improvement Program –
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. White)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Mineral Royalty Capital Construction
Account Grant application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of purchasing a fire engine – referred to Finance Committee.
(Sponsor - Mr. Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution #5820 approving a proposition to impose the 1%
Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax in Laramie County, State of Wyoming, for the exclusive purpose
of fun ding specific purposes for specific amounts; the propositions to be voted on at a special
election to be held May 2, 2017 – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsors - Mr. Laybourn, Mr.
Shanor, Mr. Luna and Dr. Rinne)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Pointe Homeowners
Association to install and enhance landscaping along a portion of the Greater Cheyenne Greenway.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6614) 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the
United States Marshals Service – Violent Offender Task Force – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Change Order to Bid #E-5-17 for furnishing 2000 95-gallon and 65-gallon automated refuse
carts for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste fund) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6592 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Depa rtment, and Reiman Corp to provide  and instal l all-abilities play ground and
appurtenances at Cahill Park – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6553 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman
Corporation for partial release of the retainage for the 19  Street Rehabilitation, Phase III Project –th
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-4-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corp., Cheyenne, WY, for the Cheyenne Pumphouse Wetlands Project
(1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
Under other business:
Mr. J ohnson cong ratulated those  who participated in the rec ent B allet Wy oming’s
performance of Peter Pan; thanked the community for donated items toward several non-profit
projects in which he is involved, and noted new and on-going community based projects currently
in progress. 
Upon inquiry by Mr. White, Mayor Orr provided an update on the former Police Department
building with regard to process being discussed to dispose of the building, which will include public
participation opportunity.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 6:48 p.m.
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
February 3, 2017