MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-02-13 | CLIP_ID: 580 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 580

   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 Office of City Clerk
February 13, 2017
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS
- Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor
and Jeff White.  Absent: Richard Johnson.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia
Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.).  Mr. Shanor declared he would abstain from participation on the
item due to a business relationship involving the State Loan and Investment Board (Consent Agenda
Item #18), and vacated Council Chambers.  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support
received by Mr. Roybal and Mr. Cook, Agenda Item #28 (a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.
Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the
vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 23, 2017.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on February 7, 2017.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell
Chevrolet) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to
Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE – 3   READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 (b) of the Cheyennerd
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 2.1.1 for the purpose of creating a subdivision
plat waiver process for limited lot line adjustments of platted properties.  Re porting for Public
Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to appr ove on third and f inal reading, seconded by Mr.
Luna.  Upon inquiry, Lisa Pafford, Development Office, advised that the ordinance addresses one
UDC annual review item only, and there will be more items presented to the Planning Commission
next week.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4164)
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Tract 71 andrd
portions of Tracts 70 & 72, Allison Tracts, 2  Filing and adjacent right of way, being situated innd
portions of the SW¼, NW ¼, and the NW¼, SW¼, of Section 8, T13N, R66W of the 6  Principalth
Meridian in Cheyenne, Laramie C ounty, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of W.
Allison Road and Waltersheid Blvd.).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading,
seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#4165) 
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – Pursuant to Sections 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amen dments,rd
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR – Medium Density Residential to
MR-2 – Medium Density Residential – Developing for Tract 71 and portions of Tracts 70 & 72,
Allison Tracts, 2nd F iling located in the S W¼, of Section 8, T13N, R66W of the 6  Principalth
Meridian in Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located near the intersection of W. Allison Road
and Wal terscheid B oulevard) t o b e kn own a s Ro rabaugh Su bdivision).  M r. Roybal mov ed to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#4166)
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – Amending the Major Street Plan Official Map 2015, bynd
adding the following roadway segments: Storey Boulevard extension from Highland Drive to Beckle
Road and Van Buren Avenue extension from Opal Drive to Storey Boulevard.  Mr. Roybal moved
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE –  2  R EADING –  A mending S ection 5 .36.030, P ublic A ddresses,nd
Entertainment and Advertising on Stree ts, of Chapter 5.36, Circuse s, Carnivals and Amuse ment
Rides, of Title 5, Business L icenses and Regu lations, of the Code of  the City  of Chey enne,
Wyoming.  Anthony Vibbard spoke in favor of the ordinance and referenced a newspaper article he
had written recently on the topic, and commented on constitutional rights.  Reporting for Finance
Committee, Mr. Luna moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Shanor
moved to amend the last sentence  under Sec tion 5.36.030 by  adding the word “ written” so the
sentence would read as follows, seconded by Mr. Cook:  “Persons shall obtain the written consent
of the owner, manager or occupant of the premises in front of or a djoining the place such person
proposes to give such public address, entertainment or advertising”.  Discussion included the types
of scenarios that may fall under the ordinance; difficulty in obtaining written consent from property
owners and when consent would not be required; law enforcement, and encouraging “busking” and
street performances in the public rig hts-of-way in the downtown ar ea.  Motion to amend f ailed.
Voting “yes” -- Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor.  Voting “no” – Mayor Orr, Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr.
Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all members
of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Shanor and Mayor Orr voting “no”.
ORDINANCE – 1  READING- Repealing Section 10.52.050, Parking for certain purposesst
prohibited, of Chapter 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and
Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee.
(Sponsor - Mr. Johnson)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING - Pursua nt to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the  Cheyennest
Unified De velopment Code (UD C), amend ing various sections of the Chey enne U nified
Development Code (UDC) to c onsolidate the LR-1, LR-2, MR-1, MR-2, HR-1, and HR-2 zone
districts into LR, MR, and HR zone districts – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr.
Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the Plan: Official Map for Storey Boulevard/Summit Road and
Van Buren Avenue including 10% Design Plan.  Motion (per consent agenda) carried. (#5830)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for
Rorabaugh Subdivision, a replat of Tract 71 and portions of Tracts 70 & 72, Allison Trac ts, 2nd
Filing, located in a portion of the SW ¼, NW ¼, of Section 8, T 13 N, R 66 W of the 6th Principal
Meridian in Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located near the intersection of W. Allison Road
and Walterscheid Boulevard).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried. (#5831)
RESOLUTION – A uthorizing the  Ma yor and City Cle rk to a ccept a nd execute a  Sta te
Historic Preser vation Offic e Certifie d Local Government (CL G) Gr ant Ag reement for the
Architectural Assistance Plan for the 2017 Historic Cheyenne Facade Improvement Program.  Mr.
Luna moved to adopt, se conded by Mr. White.  Mr. L una moved to ame nd by substitute dated
January 26, 2017, seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Jan Spires, Urban Planning, explained the substitute
increases the grant award amount from $9,500 to $13,500.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present. (#5832)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Mineral Royalty Capital Construction
Account Grant application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of purchasing a fire engine.  Motion (per consent agenda)
carried. (#5833)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing the City Clerk to schedule a Public Hearing pursuant to Section
5.12.040(2) of the Cheyenne City Code to receive public comment on violations of City ordinances
and State laws  pertaining to the sa le of a lcoholic beverages, which violations have  occurred at
‘Peppermill Bar and Liquor’ and to provide a notice of said Public Hearing to Minglemill, Inc., DBA
‘Peppermill Bar and Liquor’ – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the expedient redevelopment of the building located at 1602
Capitol Avenue, c ommonly referred to as the historic Hy nds Building  – ref erred to Fina nce
Committee. (Sponsors - Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-a ppropriating the fisca l year 2017 budg et of the C ity of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S. 16-4-112 & 16- 4-113 – re ferred to F inance Commi ttee.
(Sponsor - Mr. Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-authorizing the Purchasing Division of the City of Cheyenne to proceed
on a semiannual basis with the sale of surplus property pursuant to W.S. § 15-1-112(a) – referred to
Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Declaring as surplus a City-owned property located at 2020-2022 Capitol
Avenue, le gally described a s a ll o f L ots 1 a nd 2,  B lock 2 66, O riginal Cit y, to gether w ith
improvements thereon, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming; authorizing the Director of Public
Works to issue public notice requesting redevelopment requests for proposals and to proceed with
proposed sa le of said r eal pr operty pursuant to Wy o. Stat. §15-1-112 – re ferred to F inance
Committee. (Sponsors - Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Murray Hill Estates 6  Filing, a Repla t of Tract 51, Murray Hill Estates, 3  Filing, and Tract 2,th rd
Murray Hill Estates, 5  Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and a djacent to Foxth
Ridge Drive, south of Twin Mountain Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor -
Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – St ating the intent to initiate the reclamation of Crow  Creek along its
watershed within the City  limit s of the City  of Chey enne; a uthorizing the ex ecution of a
Memorandum of Understanding between the City  of Chey enne, the City of Chey enne Board of
Public Utili ties and the L aramie County  Conservation Dis trict to develop and implement the
Reclamation Project; and appointing an Advisory Committee to participate in the project – referred
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Laybourn)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the
United States M arshals Service – Violent Of fender Task F orce.  Motion (per c onsent agenda)
carried. (#6621) 
[CA] Memorandum of  Ag reement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, L aramie C ounty, and the
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority for the purpose of creating a Brownfields Cleanup
Revolving Loan Fund and associated Loan Review Committee – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional Service Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Western Research and
Development, Ltd. for the FY2017-18 On-Call Traffic Engineering Services Project (2011-2014
1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration for entering into a single source contract with Waste Management of Colorado
for the disposal of  non-hazardous c ontaminated wa ste being  g enerated f rom the Wetlands
Pumphouse Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional Services Contract between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization
and AVI  P.C. for the Whitney  Road 10% Corridor Plan ( MPO funds) – re ferred to F inance
Committee.
[CA] Change Order to Bid #E-5-17 for furnishing 2000 95-gallon and 65-gallon automated refuse
carts for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste fund).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried (amount
not to exceed $870.55). 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6592 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and
Recreation Depa rtment, and Reiman Corp to provide  and install all-abilities play ground and
appurtenances at Cahill Park.  Motion (per conse nt ag enda) car ried (amount not to exceed
$172,420.30). (#6592)
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6553 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman
Corporation for partial release of the retainage for the 19  Street Rehabilitation, Phase III Project.th
Motion (per consent agenda) carried. (#6553) 
Consideration of Bid #S-4-17 for a  contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corp., Cheyenne, WY for the Cheyenne Pumphouse Wetlands Project (1%
Specific Purpose Sales and Use  Tax).  Mr. L una moved to appr ove in an a mount not to ex ceed
$1,726,168.55, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  It was noted the project is the first piece of work to be done
involving development of the West Edge of the City.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present. (#6622) 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-8-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Pole Mountain Electric, Inc., Cheyenne, for the Dell Range/Yellowstone Signal
Upgrade Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
CA] Consideration of Bid #E-12-17 for furnishing 160 2-yard front end load containers for the
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management funds) – referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, February 27, 2017 at 6:00
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for renewal applications
for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, and
microbrewery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, February 27, 2017 at 6:00
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a retail liquor license
transfer of owners hip application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Lincolnway, Inc. d/b/a
Lincolnway Liquor, 2825 East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Mason
Properties, LLC dba Lincolnway Liquor, 2825 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY).
Announcement was made that due to the Presidents’ Holiday on Monday, February 20, 2017,
regularly schedule d City  Council Committee mee tings will instead be he ld in the Municipal
Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee
will meet Tuesday , February 21, 2017 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Service s Committee will meet
Wednesday, February 22, 2017 at Noon.
Under other business:
Dr. Rinne stated that at the last City Council meeting on January 23, 2017 the vote regarding
adoption of the resolution authorizing a Final Plat for South Ridge Addition was inadvertently
reported as approved when in fact not enough affirmative votes were received to achieve passage.
As he voted on the prevailing side, Dr. Rinne moved to reconsider the resolution to allow the
applicant an opportunity to provide additional information relating to the proposed Final Plat, and
to provide a clear record of the final action that will be taken on the resolution, seconded by Mr.
Shanor.  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, read the following entitlement of the item to be reconsidered
into the record: Resolution - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for South
Ridge Addition, a replat of Lot 2, Block 1 and a 20' wide alley of Estevan’s Subdivision, situate
within a portion of the SW1/4 NW1/4 Section 34, T.14N., R.66W., 6  P.M., Cheyenne, Laramieth
County, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Randy Road, west of Ridge Road).  Randy Reed
with the law firm of Dray, Dyekman, Reed and Healey, representing South Ridge apartment group
owners, commented that all plat requirements have been met, and introduced others present at the
meeting who wo uld b e p roviding additional i nformation o n t he p roposed p roject.  S am Long,
Summit Housing Group, project owner, provided a brief history and current status of  the Group’s
affordable housing pr oject at the site, inc luding a pproval a nd financ ing involving the WCDA
(Wyoming Community Development Association), other projects the Group has been involved in
or have planned, zoning and density level, and the need for affordable housing in the community.
During his comments, Mr. Long provided a hand-out (on file with City Clerk’s office) reflecting a
rendering of proposed building designs.  Jen Clary, Encompass v2, architectural consultant for the
project, also provided information about the project, noting they have not requested any variances.
Ms. Clary commented on dr ainage control, fire access, parking and building height.  During her
comments, Ms. Clary  submitt ed a ha nd-out (on file w ith Ci ty Clerk’s off ice) reflecting  a 3-
dimensional drawing of the height of the proposed buildings with slope and grading plans.  Patrice
Gapen spoke in opposition to the project, stating concerns with density, whether housing of this type
was needed pursuant to information provided by the Cheyenne Housing Authority (CHA), setbacks,
height of buildings, size of the site footprint vs. the project, drainage, parking, access and traffic
congestion, and other projects currently underway for similar affordable housing units in the area.
Mr. Long advised that WCDA had conducted a site visit last year; that CHA had provided a letter
concerning the waiting list for affordable housing, that a market study reflected a high need for this
type of housing, and that the project meets UDC (Uniform Development Code) compliance.  Upon
inquiry from Patti Riesland, May or’s Council for People  with Disabiliti es, Ms. Clary  stated 1
dwelling in each unit will be a Type A under the ADA with a parking space provided.  Discussion
included location of Ms. Gapen’s property in the vicinity, which consists of 4-plex apartment units;
project meeting compliance with City requirements; shortage of affordable housing and vacancy
rates.  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with
the exception of Mr. Luna voting “no”.  Main motion to adopt the resolution carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Luna and Mayor Orr voting
“no”. (#5834)
There being no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:05 p.m. 
 S ubmitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
February 24, 2017