MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-02-27 | CLIP_ID: 584 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 584

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
 Office of City Clerk 
 
February 27, 2017 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date 
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR - Marian J. Orr; 
COUNCIL MEMBERS - Rocky Case, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Absent: Bryan Cook.  Also present: Carol 
Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of  [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no 
separate dis cussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and 
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be 
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.). Upon request by Mr. Roybal, and purs uant to 
support received by Mr. Shanor and Mr. Johnson, Agenda Item #12 was removed from the 
Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Mr. 
Roybal and Mr. Shanor, Agenda Item #18 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna 
moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- 
all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 13, 2017.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell 
Chevrolet) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as 
presented, seconded by Mr. Johnson.   Motion carried.  Voting “ye s” -- all members of the 
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal 
returned to Council Chambers. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for renewal 
applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill 
liquor licenses and microbrewery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  City Clerk Carol 
Intlekofer noted that information contained in the bar and grill renewal liquor licen se application 
filed by S & S Wyoming, LLC d/b/a The Suite Bistro, 1901 Central Avenue, reflected non -
compliance with state statute renewal criteria.  She stated that, pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 12 -4-
408, the renewal application must reflect that not less than 60% of gross sales from the preceding 
12 months of operation be derived from food services and not alcoholic and malt beverage sales.  
The Suite Bistro disclosed on its renewal application that approximately 37% of its gross sales 
was from food sales an d 63% was from liquor sales.  Ms. Intlekofer clarified the renewal 
application was not included in those annual licenses involved with the public hearing, and the 
application would also not be included in the renewal licenses that will be considered for 
approval at the next F inance Committee and City Council  meetings.  There being no further 
comments or input and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the 
hearing and referred the applications to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened  a public hearing to receive comments and input for a retail liquor 
license transfer of ownership application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Lincolnway, Inc. 
d/b/a Lincolnway Liquor, 2825 East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held 
by Mason Properties, LLC dba Lincolnway Liquor, 2825 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY).  John 
Mason, applicant and member of Mason Properties, LLC and Lincolnway, Inc. explained the 
purpose of requesting the transfer, which is to separate the business operating entity from the real 
property owner entity.  There being  no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing 
having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Major Street Plan Official Map 2015, by 
adding the following roadway segments: Storey Boulevard extension from Highland Drive to 
Beckle Road and Van Buren Avenue extension from Opal Drive to Storey Boulevard.  Joe 
Patterson, Guardian Development Company and Hom es by Guardian, explained they have been 
working on a master plan for a project involving this area and commented  on anticipated road 
design and connectivity which may not line up with the proposed official map.  He requested the 
item be postponed or recognition be provided that in the future their proposed road design will be 
considered.  Tom Mason, Director, Metropolitan Planning Organization, explained this is a 
center line survey for the extension and when the developer comes forward with a plat plan, t hat 
consideration could be given that alignment of the roadways could be changed as long as it meets 
the intent of the extension.   Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  M otion carried.  Voting “yes” -- 
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. 
(#4167) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 5.36.030, Public Addresses, 
Entertainment and Advertising on Streets, of Chapter 5.36, Circuses, Carnivals and Amusement 
Rides, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  C oncern was voiced relating to the scenario involving a 
business not having the ability to stop an undesired activity in front of their storefront. Mr. 
Shanor moved to amend the last sentence in Section 5.36.030 to read as follows, seconded by 
Mr. Luna:  Persons shall obtain the consent of the owner or manager of the premises in front of 
the place such person proposes to give such public address, entertainment or advertising.  Brief 
comment followed on business manager’s authority to provide consent.  Moti on carried.  Voting 
“yes” -- Mr. Case, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. White and Mayor Orr.  Voting “no” -- 
Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Roybal.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- 
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. 
(#4168) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING- Repealing Section 10.52.050, Parking for certain 
purposes prohibited, of Chapter 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, of Title 10, 
Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the  City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Georgia Broyles spoke in 
opposition to the ordinance and commented on the initial ordinance serving a positive purpose in 
the community and how repealing it will affect law enforcement and the Fight the Blight task 
force.  Chie f Brian Kozak, Cheyenne Police Department, advised that upon inquiry to Police 
Community Service Officers (CSO’s) he has learned that CSO’s use this City Code section to 
“green tag” vehicles park ed illegally on the streets but have not issued official cita tions.  Mr. 
Roybal reported there was no recommendation on this item from Public Services Committee.  
Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Upon inquiry, 
Chief Kozak provided further information involving “tagging” vehicl es that have a for sale sign 
in the window and that the “tag” is considered a written warning.  Discussion topics included: 
Wise water conservation program relative to washing vehicles in the street; conducting non -
emergency vehicle mechanical repairs; oth er sections of City Code that may apply for certain 
violations; nuisance laws and original City areas being more affected by the current restriction 
than newer subdivisions.  Motion failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body 
present with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Case who voted “yes”. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING - Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending various sections of the Cheyenne Unified 
Development Code (UDC) to consolidate the LR -1, LR-2, MR-1, MR-2, HR-1, and HR -2 zone 
districts into LR, MR, a nd HR zone districts.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Eric Hammer, Development office, explained the 
proposed change had been in the works for quite some time and was an item addressed by the 
Critical Path Committee a few years ago as something that could be addressed in the future. He 
provided information on past Planning Commission review and a work session that had been 
scheduled.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing the City Clerk to schedule a Public Hearing pursuant to 
Section 5.12.040(2) of the Cheyenne City Code to receive public comment on violations of City 
ordinances and State laws pertaining to the sale of alcoholic beverages, which violations have 
occurred at ‘Peppermill Bar and Liquor’ and to provide a notice of said Public Hearing to 
Minglemill, Inc., DBA ‘Peppermill Bar and Liquor’.  John O’Grady, owner, Peppermill Bar and 
Liquor, explained that steps have been taken to prev ent the issues that led to the violations 
including purchase of scanners to read patrons’ identification, and training for employees.  Mr. 
White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion failed. Voting “no” -  all members of 
the governing body present. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Supporting the expedient redevelopment of the building located at 
1602 Capitol Avenue, commonly referred to as the historic  Hynds Building.  David Hatch, 
developer for the Hynds Building project, commented in support of the resolution and distributed 
information (on file with City Clerk’s office) to the governing body pertaining to the project.  He 
explained the history of the project and voiced parking concerns.  He advised that the original 
request for on -street parking  has been removed, and they are requesting 15 spaces  be made 
available in the Spiker Parking Garage in addition to parking in the proposed new area referred 
to as the “Hole”.  Christina Bird, Cheyenne Historic Preservation Board, spoke in support of the 
resolution, and abo ut revitalizing and developing downtown . Jon Jelinek, owner of the 
Paramount Café and Majestic Building, spoke in opposition of the resolution  commenting on  
density, redeveloping and concentration of businesses downtown . Dale Steenbergen, Greater 
Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, spoke in support of the resolution, and about the complexity 
of the project due to  size and financial commitment,  the need for parking, the importance of the 
project for downtown,  investing in historic buildings and economic developmen t. Mr. White 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. White moved to amend by  removing the 
following language from the 10th “Whereas” Clause, “the City is willing to commit up to ten (10) 
designated on street parking spaces adjacent to the perimeter of the Hynds Building” and the 
following language from the “Now Therefore” Clause, Section #2, “up to ten (10) designated on-
street parking spaces adjacent to the perimeter of the Hynds Building and …” seconded by Mr. 
Case.  Mr. Shanor offered a friendly amendment  to the motion on the floor  by adding 10 
additional designated spaces in the parking garage to make a total of 15.  Mr. White, as maker of 
the motion to amend, and  Mr. Case, as second to the motion, concurred with acceptance of the 
friendly amendment . Discussion continued on a substitute resolution  dated 2/27/2017 that 
addressed changes made at the 2/21/2017 Finance Committee meeting, removing the on-street 
parking request and changing the designated spots in the parking garage from 5 to 15.  Motion to 
amend failed . Voting “yes” – Mr. Shanor and Mr. Luna.  Voting “no” - Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
Laybourn, Mr. Case, Mr. White, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mayor Orr.  Mr. Laybourn moved to 
amend by  substitute resolution  dated 2/27/17 , seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to amend 
carried. Voting “yes” - all members of the gov erning body present. Discussion continued and 
included: executive summary from the  Attorney’s office regarding constitutionality of the 
resolution; timeline and aggressive schedule  for the project, and plans for the main level of  the 
building.  Mr. Hatch, upon inquiry, provided information on anticipated construction renovation 
plans and potential tenants for the building. Further discussion continued on the estimated cost of 
the project, with $750,000 being the maximum City contribution; return investment; increase of 
property taxes with the project;  opportunity to develop  the “Hole”; commitment out of general 
fund reserves, and partner ing with organizations for projects.  Upon inquiry, Lois Huff, City 
Treasurer, explained there is around $13 million dollars in reserves , of which $8 million is 
required to operate for 60 days, leaving approximately $5 million unencumbered. City Attorney, 
Sylvia Hackl, explained upon inquiry, that the resolution is a statement of intent only , and that 
any City financial appropriation will separately approved.   Anja Bendel, Cheyenne Leads, 
explained upon inquiry , that their intent is to acquire the “ Hole” property that is made up of 2 
parcels, combine them and make the property available for development of a parking lot for the 
Hynds Building.  Discussion continued on Cheyenne Leads’ efforts for providing incentives for 
businesses in the area , and design elements o f the proposed parking lot in the “Hole” . Main 
motion as amended carried. Vot ing “yes” - all members of the governing body  present with the 
exception of Mr. Johnson voting no. (#5835) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the fiscal year 2017 budget of the C ity of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. 16 -4-112 & 16-4-113.  Motion (per consent agenda) carried. 
(#5836) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-authorizing the Purchasing Division of the City of Cheyenne to 
proceed on a semiannual basis with the sale of surpl us property pursuant to W.S. § 15 -1-112(a).  
Motion (per consent agenda) carried. (#5837) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Declaring as surplus a City -owned property located at 2020 -2022 
Capitol Avenue, legally described as all of Lots 1 and 2, Block 266, Original City,  together 
improvements thereon, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming; authorizing the Director of 
Public Works to issue public notice requesting redevelopment requests for proposals and to 
proceed with proposed sale of said real property pursuant to Wyo. Stat . §15-1-112.  Motion (per 
consent agenda) carried. (#5838) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat 
for Murray Hill Estates 6 th Filing, a Replat of Tract 51, Murray Hill Estates, 3 rd Filing, and Tract 
2, Murray Hill Estates, 5 th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to 
Fox Ridge Drive, south of Twin Mountain Road).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried. (#5839) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Stating the intent to initiate the reclamation of Crow Creek al ong its 
watershed within the City limits of the City of Cheyenne; authorizing the execution of a 
Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, the City of Cheyenne Board of 
Public Utilities and the Laramie County Conservation District to develo p and implement the 
Reclamation Project; and appointing an Advisory Committee to participate in the project. Jeff 
Geyer, Laramie County Conservation District, spoke about the project  and in favor of the 
resolution. Bob Mason, Curt Gowdy Chapter of Trout Un limited, spoke in favor of the 
resolution.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Discussion continued on the 
importance of revitalizing Crow Creek, Crow Creek being a flood feature,  funding sources for 
the project, design and  implementation of  the project, developing West Cheyenne  and water 
quality and fishing in Crow Creek. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -  all members of the governing 
body present. (#5840) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority for the purpose of creating a Brownfields Cleanup 
Revolving Loan Fund and associated Loan Review Committee.  Motion (per consent agenda) 
carried. (#6624) 
 
[CA] Professional Service Agreement between the City of Cheye nne and Western Research 
and Development, Ltd. for the FY2017 -18 On-Call Traffic Engineering Services Project. (2011 -
2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried (in an amount not t o exceed 
$90,294.00). (#6625) 
 
[CA] Consideration for entering into a single source contract with Waste Management of 
Colorado for the disposal of non -hazardous contaminated waste being generated from the 
Wetlands Pumphouse Project. (1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax).  Motion (per consent 
agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $47,285.00).  (#6626) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Contract between the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning 
Organization and AVI P.C. for the Whitney Road 10% Corridor Plan. (MPO funds). Motion (per 
consent agenda) carried. (#6627) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 Contract No. 6494 between the City of Cheyenne, Parks and 
Recreation Department, and Construction Specialists Inc. for partial release of the retainage for 
the Lions Park Restroom Renovation.    Motion (per consent agenda) carried. (#6494) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -8-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering 
Department, and Pole Mountain Electric, Inc., Cheyenne, for the Dell Range/Yellowstone Signal 
Upgrade Project. (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per consent agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $138,098.58).  (#6628) 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-12-17 for furnishing 160 2-yard front end load containers for the 
Sanitation Division. (Solid Waste Management funds).   Motion (per con sent agenda) carried 
(approved bid submitted by  Wastequip Mfg. Co., LLC, Statesville, NC in an amount not  to 
exceed $59,480.00).  
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -14-17 for furnishing new landfill portable litter fences Phase 2 
for the City’s Landfill Divisi on. (Solid Waste Management funds) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
  
 Under other business: 
 
 Mr. Johnson provided an update on several community projects in which he is involved. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the m eeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:42 p.m.   
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
         
       Carol Intlekofer, MMC   
       City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 10, 2017 