MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-04-10 | CLIP_ID: 592 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 592

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
April 10, 2017
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were:  MAYOR – Mar ian J . Orr;
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky  Case, B ryan Cook (ar riving at 6:03 p.m.), Richard Johnson,
Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  A lso
present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance
was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [C A] are considered to
be routine items by  the go verning body and will be ena cted by one motion. There  will be no
separate discussion on these  items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other membe rs is received. Any item removed f rom the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequ ence on the agenda.)  Mr. J ohnson moved to approve, seconded by
Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
 [CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 27, 2017.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell
Chevrolet) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, sec onded by  Mr. J ohnson.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “y es” - - all member s of the
governing bo dy.  F ollowing a nnouncement o f t he vo te, M r. Roy bal r eturned to  Cou ncil
Chambers.
Mayor Orr  op ened a public hea ring to rec eive c omments and input for a tra nsfer of
ownership for a r etail liquor license a pplication filed with the City  Clerk’s Office for Evergreen
Restaurant L LC #5011, d/b/a Outback Steakhouse #5011, 1626 Fleischli Par kway, C heyenne,
Wyoming ( License cu rrently held by  Outback Stea khouse of F lorida, L LC, d/b/a Outback
Steakhouse, 1626 Fleischli Parkway, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Brian Proffitt, attorney representing
Evergreen Restaura nt Group, explained the transf er r equest is due to fr anchise restruc turing.
There being  no further c omments or input, May or Orr  closed the he aring and re ferred the
application to Finance Committee.
Mayor Orr  opened a  p ublic hear ing to r eceive comments and input for  a re tail liquor
license transfer of ownership application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Deep South, LLC,
d/b/a Redwood Lounge, 2105 East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by
High Pl ains En tertainment, I nc., d/b/a Re dwood L ounge a nd Pa ckage L iquor, 2 105 E ast
Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wy oming).  Way ne L ayton, applicant, commente d in support of the
application and his desire to make business improvements.  The re being no further comments or
input, Mayor Orr closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor
license a pplication f iled w ith t he C ity C lerk’s O ffice f or W ing S hack E nterprises, I nc., d /b/a
Wing Shack, 1439 Stillwater Avenue, Units 1 and 2,  Cheyenne, Wyoming.  St eve Murlowski,
Operations Ma nager, pr ovided a n o verview of simil ar b usiness o perations in C olorado, T IPS
training a wareness, a nd c ommented in  s upport o f th e a pplication.  T here b eing n o further
comments or input, May or Orr  closed the hear ing and re ferred the  application to Fina nce
Committee.
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input to determine whe ther
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exists for a parcel
of land situate in the NW ¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W. of the 6  P.M., Laramie County,th
Wyoming (located northwest of the inter section of Point Bluff and Cra ne Bluff).  Eric Hammer,
Development office, provided infor mation on the proper ty reque sted by  the landowne r to be
annexed and reviewed requirements of and compliance with annexation conditions contained in
state statutes.  F rank Cole, Pre sident, United Western Corporation, provided information on the
proposed residential housing project planned for the property.  There being no further comments
or input, Mayor Orr closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – Crea ting the Civic Center  Commons P rojectrd
Management Team and providing procedures for the operation thereof.  Jac k Speight spoke in
opposition of the ordinance .  Topics included in his comments were: Future developments and
improvements in the West Edge area; private investors; funding  sources; FEMA g rant and 6 th
penny funds; site remediation, environmental studies, and developing the area in phases.  During
his comments, Mr. Speight display ed and referenced an aerial map, and submitted informational
handouts (on file with C ity Clerk’s off ice).  Gene  MacD onald, Ay res Assoc iates, provided
detailed information on the project.  Topics included in his comments were : Expertise of Ayres
staff involved in the pr oject; environmental site assessments  and studies; voluntary remediation
program; FEMA grant and EPA revo lving loan program; cost bene fit ratios, and dra inage paths
and flood c ontrol measure s for the Capitol B asin, 19  and 26  St. drainag e proje cts and theth th
downtown a rea.  T he fol lowing e xpressed c oncerns w ith the  Civ ic Ce nter C ommons Pr oject,
including problems that had been raised relative to the use of federal funds and effect of reduced
parking for Ci vic Center pa trons:  Ba rbie Ha rrington, Major Dorr  and B rad H arrington.
Speaking in f avor of the project involving  redevelopment of the area and addressing fl ood
control problems were:  Dean Dexter and Dave Teubner, Warehouse 21; Carrie Hufney; Howard
Rodack; Tony  L ucero, A &  C Fee d, and J oe Doug herty.  Reporting  for Public Service s
Committee, Mr. Roy bal moved to appr ove o n third and f inal rea ding, se conded by Mr. Case.
Mr. Shanor moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Discussion included c ontent
of the proposed substitute, which would create a Civic Center Commons Project Oversight Team
(CPOT), ins tead o f a P roject Ma nagement T eam, t o o versee the  a dministration o f t he pr oject;
provide disclosure of documentation to FEMA and an amended scope of services to be provided
by DHM De sign Corpor ation.  Commenting in support of the a mendment, including
redevelopment of the a rea and implementing  flood control mea sures were: Mr. Speig ht, Jordan
Dean, Danielle Ma rks, Tom Dickson and G len Garrett.  Discussion followed and included the
following topics: Lack o f t imeliness i n receiving the p roposed s ubstitute p rior t o t he m eeting;
transparency; FEMA involvement, a nd the importance of f lood control in the downtown ar ea.
Upon inquiry to City Council members and there being no objection voiced, Mayor Orr
expressed her concern with the lack of timeliness in receiving the proposed substitute for review;
provided infor mation on projec t funding  source s and status of the F EMA g rant, a nd posed
questions with regard to whether the substitute contained a sunset clause, whether DHM had
been contacted concerning a change in scope  of work unde r their c ontract, and whether it was
applicable to name a specific design company by name in an ordinance.  In response, Mr. Shanor
stated a sunse t provision was  contained in S ection 4(A) of the substitute; that DHM has be en
contacted and they are willing to look at additional services, and that DHM has a current contract
with the City specific to the project.  Upon  inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, advised that if
there is further a mendment made to Sec tion 4(A) cla rifying a n ordinanc e “sunse t” date, the re
shouldn’t be a major concern with referencing DHM in the ordinance.  Motion to amend carried.
Voting “y es” - - all member s of the g overning body  with the exception of Mr. Johns on and
Mayor Orr voting “ no”.  Mr. Shanor  moved to amend by  adding the foll owing sentence at the
end of Section 4(A), seconded by Mr. Cook:  “This ordinance shall sunset upon completion of all
project activity and shall be of  no further  force and e ffect”.  Motion to amend c arried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend Section 4(C) by adding
“and any other de partment that the pr oject oversight team deems nec essary” to t he end of  the
first sentence, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  D uring brief explanation of the intent of the proposed
amendment, Ms. Hackl offered to provide different wording on the topic.  Motion to amend
failed.  Voting “no” -- all members of the governing body.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend Section
4(C) by revising the first sentenc e to read as follows, seconded by Mr. Roybal: “The CPOT and
DHM will work dire ctly with  any City depar tments and employ ees de emed ne cessary for the
completion of the project.”  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Main motion as amended by substitute, as twice amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mayor Orr voting “no”. (#4170)
Following a brief minute recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 8:35 p.m.
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – A mending various chapters and sections contained inrd
Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, and Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Cheyenne City
Code, pertaining to appr oval and issuance  of ce rtain business license s and per mits.  R eporting
for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4171)
ORDINANCE – 3  READING - An Ordinance pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Z oning Ma prd
Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Sec tion 5.1.3 Official Z oning
Map, of the Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community
Business to LI Light Industrial for a portion of Block 1 Tyrrell Addition; and a portion of Block
1 Hus ky Industrial Addition First Filing  being situated in a portion of the West ½  Section 1,
T13N, R67 W, of the 6th Principal Mer idian, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located along Cutler Roa d
north of West L incolnway).  Mr. Roybal moved to appr ove on third and f inal reading, seconded
by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4172)
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – An Or dinance pursuant to  Section 2.2.1 Zoning  Maprd
Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Z oning Districts Established, Section 5.1.3 Offic ial Z oning Ma p,
and Section 5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit De velopment District, of the Unified Development Code,
changing the  zon ing c lassification f rom H R-1 H igh D ensity Re sidential to  PUD  Pla nned U nit
Development for a por tion of L ot 2, Block 1 of  Bu ffalo Ridge  Estates 10  Filing , City  ofth
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Sunflower Road, south
of Sagebrush Ave.).  Mr. Roybal moved to appr ove on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4173)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – An Ordinance pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Mapst
Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zo ning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Of ficial Z oning
Map, of the U nified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from NR-2
Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density
for Lots 1-40, Block 1, Shiraz Enclave, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located
east of and adjacent to Snyder Ave., south of W. J efferson Road), to be known as G rand Mesa –
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READI NG - A n Ordinanc e anne xing to the  City of Chey enne,st
Wyoming a parcel of land situate in the NW¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., of the 6th P.M.,
Laramie County , Wy oming ( located nor thwest of the inter section of Point Bluff a nd Crane
Bluff) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING  - An Ordinance pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning  Mapst
Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Off icial Z oning
Map, of the U nified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from L R – L ow
Density Residential (County) to MR Medium-Density Residential for a parcel of land situate in
the NW¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., o f the 6th P.M., L aramie County, Wyoming (located
northwest of the intersection of  Point B luff and Crane Bluff) – referred to P ublic S ervices
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE –  1  REA DING – A n O rdinance c reating Se ctions 8. 60.181, N otice tost
Lienholder, and 8.60.182, J unk Vehicle Impoundment-Transfer of Title to the City, of Chapter
8.60, Nuisances, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming –
referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – An Ordinance Amending Section 2.29.010, Purpose-st
Authority-General Provisions , of Chapter  2.29, Communi ty Service  Offic ers, of Tit le 2,
Administration and Personnel, o f t he Cod e of  the  City  of  Che yenne, Wy oming – r eferred to
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson)
[CA] RESOLUTION – A uthorizing the  City  of  Che yenne to r e-acquire the  re al pr operty
located at 206 West L incolnway, Cheyenne Wyoming.  Motion (per  Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5841)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the  May or and the  C ity Clerk to sig n a F inal Plat for
Tyrrell Addition, 2nd Filing, a r eplat of a  po rtion of Lot 9, Bloc k 3, Replat of Westland
Subdivision; a portion of vacate d and aba ndoned State Hig hway U.S. Hwy  30 and a por tion of
Block 1, Husky Industrial Addition First Filing and Block 1, Tyrrell Addition being situated in a
portion of the West ½ Section 1, T13N, R67W, of the 6th Principal Meridian, Laramie County,
Wyoming ( located a long Cutler Roa d, north of West  Lincolnway).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5842)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the  May or and the  City  Clerk to s ign a Final Plat for
Waterford Square 3r d Filing, a re plat of L ots 28 & 29, Block 7, L ots 1 & 31, B lock 5 and a
portion of Tra y More B oulevard and adja cent alleys, Waterford Squar e, City  of Chey enne,
Laramie County , Wy oming ( located south of the intersec tion of Tray  More B oulevard and
Waterford Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and  the City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for
Waterford Square 4th F iling, a r eplat of a ll of Block 8 ( Lots 1-9 incl usive), Waterford Square,
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the  intersection of Avenue
C-4 and Turk Court) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  County Final Plat
for Swan Ranch Rail Park Tenth Filing, a replat of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 2 of Swan Ranch Rail
Park Second F iling, being situated in a p ortion of the E½ of Sec tion 33, Township 13 North,
Range 67 West of the 6th Principal Mer idian, L aramie Coun ty, Wyoming ( located a t the
southwest c orner o f t he int ersection o f B erwick a nd Trumpeter D rives) --  re ferred to  Pub lic
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a F inal Plat for
Western Hills 15  Filing, a replat of all of Lots 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, Block 40, Western Hills,th
10  Filing Replat, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Silver Sageth
Avenue, Ran ger Drive and Dog wood Avenue ) – referred to Public Services Committee.
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A cknowledging receipt of the City of Chey enne Capital Improvement
Plan dated March 17, 2017 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . 16-4-112 &  16-4-113 – ref erred to Finance Committ ee.
(Sponsor – Mr. Luna)
[CA] Recommendation by the Governing Body to approve the Sunflower Road Planned Unit
Development Prel iminary Plan for a  portion of L ot 2, Block 1 of  Buf falo Ridg e Estates 10 th
Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Sunflower
Road, south of Sagebrush Ave.).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for The Bluffs 11th F iling, a pa rcel of land situated in a por tion of the
NW¼ o f S ection 2 1, T .14N., R .66W., o f t he 6 th P .M., C ity o f C heyenne, L aramie C ounty,
Wyoming (l ocated n orthwest o f t he int ersection of Po int Bluff and Cr ane Bluff) – r eferred to
Public Services Committee.
[CA] Agreement betwee n the City  of C heyenne, L aramie County  Sheriff’ s Depa rtment and
Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6639)
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between Laramie County and the City  of Cheyenne for the
housing of  juvenile detaine es in the L aramie Coun ty Juvenile Servic es Center  located a t the
Archer Complex.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6640)
[CA] Agreement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd the Wy oming Tr ibune Eag le for the
Fridays on the Plaza summer concert series – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] 2017-2018 Collective L abor A greement betwee n the City  of Chey enne, a nd the
Cheyenne Firefighters Local Union No. 279, I nternational Association of F irefighters – re ferred
to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum o f U nderstanding be tween th e City  of  Che yenne a nd L aramie Cou nty
School District #1 to p rovide transportation for the Sum mer Rec Camp P rogram – referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-9-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Ame rican Striping Compan y, Englewood, CO, for  the 2017 Pavement
Markings Project (2011-2014 1%  Sales Tax).  Motion (per Cons ent Agenda) carried (approved
bid submitted b y A merican St riping Co mpany, E nglewood, CO , in  a n a mount n ot t o e xceed
$87,037.00). (#6641)
[CA] Consideration of Bi d #E-19-17 for furnishing  20 new police  vehicles w ith equipment
installed f or the  Pol ice De partment ( 2011-2014 a nd 20 15-2018 1% Sales Tax) –  re ferred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-7-17 for a contra ct between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Simon Contractors, Chey enne, f or the Capitol Ba sin 26  Street I nterceptorth
Storm Sewer Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 7 to Cont ract No. 6219 betwee n the City of Cheyenne, Parks
and Re creation D epartment, a nd REC CO, I nc., d/b/a Five-R Co. , f or the  Che yenne B otanic
Gardens Project to increase the guaranteed maximum price – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 4989 betwee n the City  of Chey enne and Cheyenne
Pipeline LLC for a renewal term to allow limited use of the public right-of-way for petroleum
pipeline purposes and setting a fee – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Request to approve an additional dispensing room for City of Cheyenne restaurant liquor
licensee Be lla Fuoc o, LLC, d/b/a Be lla Fuoc o, located a t 2115 Warren Ave nue, Chey enne,
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Announcement was made of a Public Meeting to b e held April 24, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’ Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the City of Cheyenne’s
Annual Action Plan Fiscal Year 2017-2018 prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community
Development Office. 
Under other business:
Jeff D ierksen s poke in r eference to a  pe tition he  fi led w ith the  City  Cle rk’s of fice in
November r egarding tr affic re lief o n Pi nto L ane, s tating he  int ends to  me et w ith the City
Engineer to further discuss.
Mr. J ohnson provid ed an update on se veral community  projec ts and fund-r aising
activities in which he is involved.  Mr. R oybal expressed a ppreciation to employ ees f or the
repair of awnings at the Spiker Downtown Parking Structure, damaged by hail last summer, and
noted estimates to repair the clock were in p rocess.  Mr . White also expressed appreciation to
City staff for their recent support involving the Dad’s Making a Difference program.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  governing body, the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:57 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
April 21, 2017