MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-04-24 | CLIP_ID: 594 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 594

1
 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk 
April 24, 2017
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were:  MAYOR – Mar ian J . Orr;
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky  Case, B ryan Cook, Richard Johns on, Pete L aybourn, Mike
Luna, Dr . Mark Rinne, Scott Roy bal, Dicky  Shanor and Jeff White.  Also prese nt:  Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  ( All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [C A] are considered to
be routine it ems b y th e governing b ody a nd w ill b e e nacted b y o ne mo tion. T here w ill b e no
separate discussion on these items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other membe rs is received. Any item removed from the Consent Ag enda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. J ohnson moved to approve, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
 [CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 10, 2017.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell
Chevrolet) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, seconded by  Mr. J ohnson.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” - - all member s of the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Orr  o pened a  public hear ing to r eceive comments and input for  the City  of
Cheyenne’s Annual Action Plan Fiscal Year 2017-2018 prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and
Community Deve lopment Office .  Dea nne Widauf, Housing  and Community  Deve lopment
Office, provided a brie f overview of the  history and p urpose of the Community  Development
Block Gra nt pr ogram. She advised the proposed pla n is consistent with the 5 y ear
Comprehensive Con solidated Plan and the  anticipated a llocation funding  amount is $397,441
with $1,000 in prog ram income and $204,071.00 in re captured funding.  Ms. Widauf explained
the g rant a pplication proce ss, public notifications and opportunities for input, and r ole of the
Advisory Council in reviewing  and re commending projec ts to be funded. She state d eig ht
projects are proposed unde r the c ategories of public se rvice and g eneral servic e proje cts, and
reviewed the projects and funding amounts as recommended by the Advisory Council as well as
the fu nding a mount fo r program a dministration.  Th ere be ing no  fu rther comments a nd inp ut,
and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr  closed the hearing. 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READI NG – An Or dinance pursuant to  Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map
Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Off icial Z oning
2
Map, of the U nified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoning classif ication fr om NR-2
Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density
for Lots 1-40, Bloc k 1, Shiraz Enclave, City  of Chey enne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located
east of and adjacent to Snyder Ave., south of W. Jefferson Road), to be known as Grand Mesa.
Reporting fo r Public S ervices C ommittee, M r. R oybal m oved t o ap prove o n s econd re ading,
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE – 2nd READI NG - A n Ordinanc e anne xing to the City  of Chey enne,
Wyoming a parcel of land situat e in the NW¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., of the 6th P.M.,
Laramie County , Wy oming ( located nor thwest of the inter section of Po int Bluff and Cra ne
Bluff).  Mr. Roy bal moved to appr ove on sec ond reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion
carried.  Vo ting "yes" -- a ll members of the g overning body with the exception of Dr. Rinne
voting “no”.
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd R EADING - An Or dinance pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Z oning Map
Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Z oning
Map, of the U nified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from L R – L ow
Density Residential (County) to MR Medium-Density Residential for a parcel of land situate in
the NW¼ of Section 2 1, T.14N., R.66W., of the 6th P.M., L aramie County, Wyoming (located
northwest of the intersection of Point Bluff and Crane Bluff).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
ORDINANCE -- 2nd READING – A n Ordinance creating Sections 8.60.181, Notice to
Lienholder, and 8.60.182, Junk Vehicle I mpoundment-Transfer of Title to the City , of Chapter
8.60, Nuisances, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Anthony Vi bbard sp oke in o pposition of  the  or dinance, e xpressing p rivate pr operty ri ghts
concerns.  Mr. Roybal moved to appr ove on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion
carried.  Voting  "yes" -- a ll members of the g overning body with the exception of Mr. Johnson
voting “no”.
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – An Ordinance Amending Section 2.29.010, Purpose-
Authority-General Provisions , of Chapter  2.29, Communi ty Service  Offic ers, of Tit le 2,
Administration and Personnel, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Captain Nathan
Buseck, Police Department, noted a clerical correction should be made in the second sentence in
paragraph C regarding the word “violations”.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading,
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE – 1  READI NG – Amending  the City  of C heyenne’s Soli d Waste Fe est
Schedule -- referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Luna)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.52, Massagest
Establishments, within Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City  Code -
- referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Luna and Mr. Laybourn)
3
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the M ayor and the City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for
Waterford Square 3r d Filing, a re plat of L ots 28 & 29, B lock 7, Lots 1 & 31, B lock 5 and a
portion of Tra y More B oulevard and adja cent al leys, Waterfor d Square, City  of Chey enne,
Laramie County , Wy oming ( located south of the intersec tion of Tray  More B oulevard and
Waterford Boulevard).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (adopted with revised F inal Plat
map). (#5843)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  C ity Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for
Waterford Square 4th F iling, a replat of all of B lock 8 (L ots 1-9 inclusive), Waterf ord Square,
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of Avenue
C-4 and Turk Court) .  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (a dopted with revise d Final Plat
map). (#5844)
[CA] RESOLUTION -  A uthorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat
for Swan Ranch Rail Park Tenth Filing, a replat of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 2 of Swan Ranch Rail
Park Second F iling, being situated in a portion of the E½ of  Section 33, Township 13 North,
Range 67 West of the 6th P rincipal Meridian, L aramie County , Wy oming ( located a t the
southwest corner of the inters ection of B erwick and Tr umpeter Drives).  Motion (pe r Consent
Agenda) carried (adopted with revised Final Plat map). (#5845)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the May or and the  City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for
Western Hills 15  Filing, a replat of all of Lots 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, Block 40, Western Hills,th
10  Filing Replat, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Silver Sageth
Avenue, Ranger Drive and Dogwood Avenue).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (adopted
with revised Final Plat map). (#5846)
RESOLUTION - Acknowledging receipt of the City of Cheyenne Capital Improvement
Plan d ated M arch 1 7, 20 17.  Re porting fo r F inance Com mittee, M r. L una mov ed to  a dopt,
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carrie d.  Voting " yes" -- a ll memb ers of the governing body
with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#5847) 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Re- appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budg et of the City  of Cheyenne
according to the  provisions of  W.S. 16-4-112 & 16-4-113.  Motion (pe r Consent Age nda)
carried. (#5848)
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Grand
Mesa, a  repla t of L ots 1-40, Bloc k 1 and Parisa Court R.O.W. of Shiraz Enclave, City  of
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Snyder Ave., south of W.
Jefferson Road) -- referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting  the City  of Chey enne A nnual Action Plan 2017-2018
prepared by the Chey enne Housing and Community  Development Office -- r eferred to Financ e
Commitee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Luna)
4
Preliminary Plat for The B luffs 11th Filing, a par cel of land situated in a portion of the
NW¼ o f S ection 2 1, T .14N., R .66W., o f t he 6 th P .M., C ity o f C heyenne, L aramie C ounty,
Wyoming (located northwest of the inter section of Point Bluff  and Cra ne Bluff).  Mr. Roy bal
moved to acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve with the revised
Final Plat map and staff condition #3, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -
- all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.
[CA] Agreement betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd the Wy oming Tr ibune Eag le for the
Fridays on the Plaza summer concert series.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6645)
[CA] 2017-2018 Collective L abor A greement between the City  of Chey enne, a nd the
Cheyenne Firefighters Local Union No. 279, I nternational Association of F irefighters.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6646)
[CA] Memorandum o f U nderstanding be tween th e City  of  Che yenne and L aramie Cou nty
School District #1 to provide transporta tion for the Summer Rec Ca mp Program.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6647)
[CA] Contract betwe en the City  of Chey enne a nd Goat Gr een. LLC for ve getation
management along Dry Creek. (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bi d #E-19-17 for furnishing  20 new police  vehicles w ith equipment
installed for the Police D epartment (2011-2014 and 2015- 2018 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (approved bid submitted by Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, WY, in
an amount not to exceed $835,895.00). (#6648)
Consideration of Bid #S-7-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Simon Contractors, Chey enne, for the Ca pitol Basin 26  Street I nterceptorth
Storm Sewer Project.  Ke lly Hafner, BenchMark Engineers, outlined benefits and me rits of the
project, noting the pr oject is fully  funded, a nd revie wed other  aff iliated floo dway mitigation
projects.  He a dvised the basis of the pr oject’s design is to optimiz e the volume of  flood wate r
runoff, and that expan sion is planned, contingent upon funding, to continue the proje ct eastward
into the Capitol Basin are a.  Mr. Ha fner discussed the ne ed to update the  Capitol Basin Master
Plan and indicate d the project will assist with flood control measure s.  Nanc y Loomis, building
owner in the project area, discussed flooding conditions affecting her business property; the need
to update the maste r plan; wa ter features and run- off contamination, and c ommented in support
of the project.  Mr. Luna moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $3,412,541.87, seconded
by Mr. Johnson.  The following topics were included in discussion on the item: Need to begin
planning to proce ed with next project phase to a ddress flooding  issues near the Capitol and
Herschler buildings; wetlands trea tment of stormwater runoff; revising the cur rent master plan;
funding concerns for futur e construction; alleviating f looding along the Snyder, O’Neil, Capitol
floodplain areas and downtown; changes in scope of work relative to E DA grant funding; cost
benefit analysis; extension of g rant time fr ame, and postponement of the item to allow time for
BenchMark to further  evalua te eleme nts involved in the project.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Haf ner
provided his profe ssional backg round qualifica tions and experience  and re sponded to querie s
pertaining to proje ct desig n; funding  time frame ; flood impacted are as; corre lation of the 26 th
5
Street Project with the Civic Center Commons Project and recently completed Sn yder/19th
Street Project, and c ost benefit ana lysis.  Upon inquiry , Ms. L oomis, commented on wate r
quality features near 23  Street and the need to include wetlands when updating the master plan.rd
Sam Berta, City Engineer’s office, provided information on the cha nge in scope of work f or the
project relative to the ED A grant;  EDA’ s awareness of the cha nge in the scope  of work; grant
time frame , and time frame involving the  bid submit ted by  the contra ctor.  Scott L arson,
BenchMark Engineers, explained initially the projec t was to extend to Carey Avenue, however,
funding was not sufficient to extend the projec t that distance so the improve ments will stop at
O’Neil Avenue f or this phase of  the proje ct.  Sy lvia Hac kl, Cit y Attorney , revie wed wr itten
communications by the City to EDA involving the change in scope of work.  Mr. Shanor moved
to postpone the item to May  8, 2017, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" --
all mem bers of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johns on and May or Orr voting
“no”.
[CA] Consideration of B id #S-11-17 for a  contra ct betwe en the  City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, WY, for the 2017 City Overlay, Part 1
Project -- referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 7 to Cont ract No. 6219  between the City of Cheyenne, Parks
and Re creation D epartment, a nd REC CO, I nc., d/b/a F ive-R Co. , f or the  Che yenne B otanic
Gardens Project to incr ease the g uaranteed maximum price.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried (approved in an amount not to exceed $120,239.08). (#6219)
Amendment No. 2 to Contrac t No. 4989 betwee n the City  of Chey enne and  Cheyenne
Pipeline LLC for a r enewal term to allow limited use of the public right-of-way for pe troleum
pipeline purposes a nd setting a fee.  Mr. L una moved to appr ove, sec onded by Mr. J ohnson.
Motion carried.  Voting  "yes" -- a ll members of the gove rning body with the exception of Mr.
Johnson voting “no”.
 [CA]  Transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license a pplication filed with the City Clerk’s
Office fo r E vergreen Re staurant LLC #5 011, d/b /a Ou tback St eakhouse #5 011, 16 26 Fleischli
Parkway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held by Outback Steakhouse of Florida, LLC,
d/b/a Outback Steakhouse, 1626 Fleischli Parkway, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.
[CA] Retail liquor license transfer of owne rship application filed w ith the Cit y Clerk’s Of fice
for De ep South, L LC, d /b/a Redwood L ounge, 2105 Ea st L incolnway, Chey enne, Wy oming
(License currently held by High Plains Entertainment, Inc., d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package
Liquor, 2105 East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
 [CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office fo r W ing Shack
Enterprises, I nc., d/b/a Wing Shac k, 1439 Stil lwater Avenue,  Units 1 and 2, Chey enne,
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
6
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne
at the June  2, 2017 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Membership Business Meeting in
Gillette, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 8, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public comment on a
proposed sale of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, located at 206 West Lincolnway,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, legally described as the East 22 feet of Lot 7, Block 390, Original City,
consisting of approximately 2,904 sq. ft. and having estimated appraised value of $70,000.00, to
Cheyenne-Laramie County  Corporation for  Economic De velopment (Chey enne L EADS), a
Wyoming nonprofit, for economic development purposes.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 8, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’ Neil Avenue , Chey enne, Wy oming, to re ceive public comment
regarding the intent of the City of Cheyenne to submit an application to the Wyoming Business
Council’s B usiness R eady Com munity, Co mmunity Re adiness G rant P rogram to assist i n
funding the Christensen Railroad Overpass and Corridor Project.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 8, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a bar & grill liquor license
application filed with the City’s Clerk’s Office for Paramount Café, LLC d/b/a Paramount Café,
1607 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 8, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Ch ambers, 2 101 O ’Neil A venue, Ch eyenne, Wyoming, f or a  re staurant l iquor lic ense
application filed w ith the Cit y Clerk’s Of fice for Ty n-Tyn Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Tasty Bones
BBQ & Bakery, 1719 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 8, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. in City
Council Ch ambers, 2 101 O ’Neil A venue, Ch eyenne, Wyoming, f or a  re staurant l iquor lic ense
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Nagle Warren Mansion, LLC d/b/a Na gle
Warren Mansion LLC, 222 East 17  Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming.th
Announcement was made of the appointments of Thomas Smi th and Aaron Bentley to
the Housing and Community Development Advisory Board and Judith M yers to the Dow ntown
Development Authority Board, to be confirmed May 8, 2017.
Under other business:
Upon inq uiry, Ca rol I ntlekofer, City  Cle rk, e xplained th at a genda it em #7(a) ( Public
Meeting for the Annual Action Plan) has an accompanying resolution that was introduced on the
agenda and referred to Finance Committee.
Mayor O rr s ubmitted a  w ritten me mo to  Co uncil me mbers a nd r ead th e me mo, w hich
pertained to her decision to refrain from signing Ordinance #4170 (Ordinance creating the Civic
7
Center Commons P roject Oversig ht Team a pproved a t the April 10, 2017 Council meeting ),
noting the or dinance will go into effect without her  signa ture.  I mmediately following
adjournment o f t he me eting, an d pursuant to r equest, Ma yor Or r r econvened th e me eting to
allow for Council comment on the memo.  Sy lvia Hackl, City Attorney, explained that city code
requires written notification by the Mayor if  an ordinance is t o become effective without their
signature.
There being  no further  business to come bef ore the  governing body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:33 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
May 5, 2017