MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-05-08 | CLIP_ID: 598 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 598

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
May 8, 2017
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were:  MAYOR – Mar ian J . Orr;
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky  Case, B ryan Cook (ar riving at 6:10 p.m.), Richard Johnson,
Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  A lso
present:  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance
was recited.
Recognition by City Council President Dicky  Shanor of the City ’s Parti cipation in the
American Council of Young  Polit ical Leaders Fe llows Progr am. Mr. Shanor pr ovided a br ief
explanation of t he program, noting Chey enne w as one of  four c ities in the U.S. selected f or
program pa rticipants to v isit a nd le arn a bout v arious a spects o f g overnment a nd c ommunity
issues.  Cheyenne’s program participants, Ooi Tze Howe  and Kelvin Yii from Malaysia, and Tu
Mai Z ahkung fr om Y angon int roduced th emselves a nd provided b rief i nformation o n th eir
professional backgrounds and areas of interest.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [C A] are considered to
be routine items by  the g overning body and wi ll be enacted by one motion. There  will be no
separate discussion on these items unless a  member of  the g overning b ody so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
 [CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Gove rning Body on April 24, 2017.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell
Chevrolet) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Case moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, sec onded by  Mr. J ohnson.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” - - all members of  the
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal
returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input on a proposed sa le of
real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, located at 206 West Lincolnway, Chey enne,
Wyoming, legally described as the East 22 feet of L ot 7, Block 390, O riginal City, consisting of
approximately 2,904 sq. ft. and having  estimated appr aised value of $70,000.00, to Chey enne-
Laramie County Corporation for Economic Deve lopment (Cheyenne LEADS), a Wy oming
nonprofit c orporation, fo r e conomic de velopment p urposes.  An ja B endel, C heyenne L EADS,
advised the intent of a cquiring the prope rty was in af filiation with the Hy nds Building
redevelopment project, and commented in support of  acquiring the property, along with adjacent
parcels, for economic development purposes.  There being no further comments and input and
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. [City Clerk note: During
public hearing comments, Mr. Cook joined the meeting]
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input regarding the intent of
the City o f C heyenne t o s ubmit a n a pplication t o t he W yoming B usiness C ouncil’s B usiness
Ready Community, Community Readiness Grant Program to assist in funding the C h r i s t e nse n
Railroad Ove rpass a nd Corridor Projec t.  Tom Mason, Metropolitan Planning O rganization,
explained the grant application, if approved, could assist in supplementing the recently approved
6  Penny Specific Use Tax funds for the pr oject, noting a new cost estimate received was higherth
than the original estimate.  Mr. Mason reviewed the application review process and time frames.
Upon inq uiry, M r. Ma son p rovided in formation o n p roject e lements tha t ma y be  re viewed to
reduce c osts if the g rant i sn’t a pproved.  Up on inq uiry, Sc ott L arson, B enchMark En gineers,
noted that past fe deral TIGER grant applications submitted by the City  had not been approved,
and provided information on the reason for the higher cost estimate due to bridge studies.  There
being no further  comments and input and purpose  of the he aring having been me t, Mayor Orr
closed the hearing.
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a bar & grill liquor
license application filed with the City  Clerk’s Office for Paramount Café, LLC d/b/a Paramount
Ballroom, 1 607 C apitol A venue, C heyenne, W yoming.  Jo n Je linek, a pplicant, c ommented in
support of the a pplication and explained they  are expanding t heir business by  adding food and
drink options to the communit y.  Upon inquiry , Carol I ntlekofer, City  Clerk, stated that the
number of bar and grill liquor licenses are restricted based on a state statute population formula,
and explained what operations could be conducted under that type of license.  She noted that six
additional bar a nd grill licenses will be ava ilable to the City  on J uly 1  due to a c hange in thest
population formula appr oved during the re cent state legislative session.  There  being no further
comments or input, May or Orr closed the he aring and re ferred the  application to Fina nce
Committee.  
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor
license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Tyn-Tyn Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Tasty
Bones BBQ & Bakery, 1719 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  There being no co mments
or input, Mayor Orr closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor
license app lication f iled w ith the  City  Cle rk’s Of fice fo r N agle War ren M ansion, L LC d/ b/a
Nagle War ren M ansion L LC, 2 22 Ea st 1 7  Str eet, C heyenne, Wy oming.  Jim O sterfoss,th
applicant, advised alcohol ser vices will be provide d for guests dining a t the Mansion as we ll as
for conferences, dinners and wedding receptions that may be held at the facility.  Upon inquiry,
he explained a pr eviously held restaurant liquor lice nse wasn’t renewed last year due to a sa les
tax issue which has been resolved.  There being no further comments or input, Mayor Orr closed
the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – An Or dinance pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Z oning Maprd
Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Sec tion 5.1.3 Official Z oning
Map, of the U nified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from NR-2
Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density
for Lots 1-40, Bloc k 1, Shiraz Enclave, City  of Chey enne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located
east of and adjacent to Snyder Ave., south of W. J efferson Road), to be known a s Grand Mesa.
Reporting for Public Service s Commi ttee, Mr. Roy bal moved to appr ove on th ird and f inal
reading, se conded by  Mr. J ohnson.  Motion car ried.  Voting  "y es" -- a ll members of the
governing body. (#4174)
ORDINANCE – 3  READING - A n Ordinanc e anne xing to the City  of Chey enne,rd
Wyoming a parcel of land situat e in the NW¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., of the 6th P.M.,
Laramie County , Wy oming ( located nor thwest of the inter section of Po int Bluff and Cra ne
Bluff).  Mr. Roy bal moved to appr ove on th ird and fina l rea ding, se conded by Mr. J ohnson.
Motion carried.  Voting  "yes" -- a ll members of the g overning body with the  exception of Dr.
Rinne voting “no”. (#4175)
 
ORDINANCE – 3  READING - An Ordinance pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Z oning Maprd
Amendments, Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Z oning
Map, of the U nified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from L R – L ow
Density Residential (County) to MR Medium-Density Residential for a parcel of land situate in
the NW¼ of Section 2 1, T.14N., R.66W., of the 6th P.M., L aramie County, Wyoming (located
northwest of the intersection of Point Bluff and Crane Bluff).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members
of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#4176)
ORDINANCE - - 3  REA DING – A n O rdinance creating Se ctions 8. 60.181, N otice tord
Lienholder, and 8.60.182, Junk Vehicle I mpoundment-Transfer of Title to the City , of Chapter
8.60, Nuisances, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Boyd Wigg am expressed concern with proper ty rig hts and eff ect the or dinance may  have on
persons on fixed incomes, and asked consideration be given to returning any excess monies from
the a uctioning o f vehicles b y the  City  to t he a ffected v ehicle ow ner.  Mr . Ro ybal mo ved to
approve on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. J ohnson.  Mr. Shanor moved to ame nd by
adding the following sentence at the end of Section 8.60.182, seconded by Dr. Rinne:  If the junk
vehicle is sold by  the c ity and a ba lance rema ins after  all the city ’s costs of a batement a re
reimbursed, said balance shall be r eturned to original junk vehicle owne r.  Discussion  i ncluded
whether the amendme nt had bee n presented to city attorney staff or  the nuisance  control off icer
for review or input; process that would be followed, and concern that the City may be utilized as
a third par ty seller.  Upon inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, and Emmett L usher, Nuisance
Control Officer, confirmed they had no prior knowledge of the proposed amendment. Be n
Rowland, staff attorney, explained in the event a ve hicle is sold, the money  would g o into the
general fund and the City Treasurer would need to establish a procedure regarding payment to
the affected owner.  Motion to amend ca rried.  V oting “yes” -- Mr. Case , Mr. L aybourn, Mr.
Luna, Dr . Rinne, Mr. Roy bal and Mr. Shanor .  Vo ting “no” - - Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, M r.
White and Mayor Orr.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to May 22, 2017, seconded by Mr. Roybal.
Motion carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – An Or dinance Amending Secti on 2.29.010, Purpose-rd
Authority-General P rovisions, of Chapter 2.29, Community  Service  Offic ers, of  Title 2,
Administration a nd Personnel, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr . R oybal
moved to approve on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting
"yes" -- all members of the governing body. (#4177)
ORDINANCE – 2  READI NG – Amending  the City  of Chey enne’s Soli d Waste Fe end
Schedule.  V icki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, provided information on the 2014 Solid
Waste Rate Study which included a n annual fee increase recommendation of 8 % for a five year
period, noting the proposed fee schedule would be the third year within the five year period, and
reviewed th e sta tus of  oth er r ecommendations c ontained w ithin t he study.  J ulie Gl iem,
Cheyenne L andlords Associa tion, co mmented on multi-family  unit vs. single re sidential
sanitation rates; issues that fa ce la ndlords rela tive to cost, and conc ern w ith indivi duals on
limited incomes, a nd reque sted the fe e incr eases not be approve d.  Reporting  for F inance
Committee, Mr. L una moved to appr ove on sec ond reading, seconded by Mr. J ohnson.  Upon
inquiry, Ms. Nemec ek provide d informat ion on the propose d fee  incre ases a nd additional
opportunities for user s, including c ommercial container  siz es and the  number of pick ups per
week, and stated use rs are charged equally based o n volume and freque ncy of pickups.  Upon
further inquiry, Ms. Nemec ek provided information on over -volume pickup scen arios; capping
of funds to the general fund; annual analysis of the enterprise fund, stating the landfill expansion
project as well as planning  for future landfill closure will be a hug e cost; expansion time frame,
and what revenue types for services are included in the ente rprise fund.  Motion fai led (due to a
tie v ote). Voting “yes” -- Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Whit e.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Shanor and Mayor Orr.  Under other business
and upon inq uiry, Carol I ntlekofer, City  Clerk, ver ified that due to the or dinance failing  on
second reading, it will not  be inc luded in the next meeting’s printed a genda, and Ms. Nemec ek
stated that re sult of the motion fai ling is that fees will remain the sa me, and e xplained the yard
waste pickup services provided by sanitation and estimated cost of adding an additional route.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.52, Massagend
Establishments, within Title 5, Business L icenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City  Code.
Gary Hickman, L aramie County  Hea lth Depa rtment, explained the purpose of  the amending
ordinance was to remove the tuberculosis skin test requirement for massage therapists; clarify a
business license a nd permit from Envi ronmental He alth is require d in addition to the Ci ty’s
license and permit, and streamline other areas of this c hapter of city code.  M r. Luna moved to
approve on  se cond reading, s econded b y Mr . Joh nson.  M otion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll
members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE – 1  READI NG - A mending Secti on 2.04.160, Reading s-Committeest
Reports-Amendments, of Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and
Personnel, of the  Code of the City  of Chey enne, Wy oming – referred to Public Services
Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Johnson) 
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – Appr oving a nd establishing r evised wa ter a nd sewe rst
rates, tap and sy stem development fe es, admin istrative fees, service charges and pe nalties, and
septic a nd c ommercial w aste du mp r ates, a s r ecommended b y the  B oard of  Pub lic Ut ilities –
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – Pursuant to Sections  1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Chey ennest
Unified De velopment Code (UD C), amending Section 2.2.7 of the  UDC to clarif y what land
uses are subject to the spe cial use a pproval provision – re ferred to Public Service s Committee.
(Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE –  1  READI NG - Pursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Z oning Ma p A mendments,st
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Sec tion 5.1.3 Official Z oning Ma p, of the
Unified D evelopment Code, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom L R L ow-density
Residential and P Public to MR  Medium-density Residential and P Public for all of Block 4
(Lots 1 thru 9 inclusive), and those adjacent alley rights-of-way, Spring Valley Addition,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast cor ner of the intersection of Townsend Place  and
Marjon Court) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READI NG – Appr opriating money s for the  City of Chey enne,st
Wyoming for the va rious purposes in conduc ting the municipa l gove rnment of sa id Cit y and
fixing the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2018 – referred
to Committee of the Whole. (Sponsor – Mr. Shanor)
RESOLUTION - Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Grand
Mesa, a  repla t of L ots 1-40 , Bloc k 1 and Parisa Court R.O.W. of Shiraz Enclave, City  of
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to Snyder Ave., south of W.
Jefferson Road).  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt with staff  conditions #1, 2 and 3, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5849 )
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting  the City  of Chey enne A nnual Ac tion Pl an 2017-2018
prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#5850)
[CA] RESOLUTION – A uthorizing su bmission of  a n a pplication to  the  Wy oming B usiness
Council’s B usiness R eady Com munity, Co mmunity Re adiness G rant P rogram t o assist in
funding the Christensen Railroad O verpass and Corridor Projec t – refe rred to Financ e
Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the  Mayor and the City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for T he
Bluffs 11  Filing, a Final Plat of land situate in the NW¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., of theth
6th P.M., L aramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the inters ection of Point Bluff and
Crane Bluff) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the May or and the  City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for
Spring Court, a  replat of Lots 10 and 11, Block 6, Meadowbrooke Park 2nd Filing and being
situated in  the  N½  of  the  N½  Se ction 2 9, To wnship 14 North, Ran ge 66  Wes t of  the  6th
Principal Me ridian, City  of  Che yenne, L aramie Cou nty, Wy oming (l ocated w est o f B luegrass
Circle, north of Me adowland Drive)  – r eferred to P ublic Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr.
Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Appr oving the  Downtown Strateg ic Parking  Manag ement Plan –
referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsors - Mr. Case, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal) 
[CA] RESOLUTION – D eclaring a s su rplus C ity-owned p roperty loc ated a t 20 6 We st
Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming, legally described as the Ea st 22  feet of L ot 7, Block 390,nd
Original City, together with improvements ther eon, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and
authorizing the sale of said parcel to the Cheyenne-Laramie County Corporation for Economic
Development (Chey enne L EADS), pursua nt to W yo. Stat. § 15-1-112(b)( i)(D), t o benefit t he
economic development of the municipa lity – ref erred to Fina nce Committee. (Spon sors – Mr.
Luna, Mr. Laybourn)
[CA] Contract betwe en the City  of Chey enne and  Goat Gre en. L LC for veg etation
management along  Dry  Creek. ( 2015-2018 1% Sales Tax ).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried (in an amount not to exceed $99,999.00) carried. (#6652)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and United Healthcare for group health insurance
coverage for City employees – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No. 1 for a  School Resource  Offic er f or summer school 2017 – r eferred to Financ e
Committee.
[CA] Contract b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne a nd WY CO Re cycling L LC, to  a ccept a nd
process single-stream and commercial cardboard recyclables (Solid Waste funds) – referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and the City
of Douglas, Wyoming, for law enforcement e xtraterritorial assistance – referred t o Fi nance
Committee.
[CA] Customer Service Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Absolute Shredding, to
provide document destruction process services to the Cheyenne Police Department – referred to
Finance Committee.
Consideration of B id #S-7-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and S imon Cont ractors, Chey enne, f or the Capitol Ba sin 26  Street I nterceptorth
Storm S ewer Project.  Mr. L una re ported ther e wa s no rec ommendation on the item from
Finance Committee.  Mr. Luna moved to a pprove in a n amount not to exceed $ 3,412,541.87,
seconded by Mr. J ohnson.  Sy lvia Hac kl, Cit y Attorney, pro vided an upda te on meeting s and
discussions tha t ha d b een h eld w ith B enchMark En gineers sin ce the  Ap ril 24  City  Cou ncilth
meeting.  Upon inqui ry, Scott L arson, B enchMark Eng ineers, expl ained the pr oject has be en
reviewed concerning future extension of the proje ct to Carey or Capitol, with the scope of w ork
depending upon the level of flood protection the City  wants to consider , and discussed
restudying the benefit cost ratio.  Upon inquiry, Jim Voeller, City Engineer, confirmed that if the
City Engineer’s sig nature is neede d on the FE MA g rant e xtension reque st, he would provide.
Discussion included potential funding sources to e xtend the project in the future.  Motion
carried.  Voting "yes" -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson
voting “no”. (#6653)
[CA] Consideration of B id # S-11-17 f or a c ontract betwee n the City  of Chey enne, 1%
Construction Division, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, WY, for the 2017 City Overlay, Part 1
Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6654)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-21-17 for furnishing one new 2017/2018 2,000 gallon water
truck for the City’s Landfill Division (Solid Waste funds) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-13-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Kolbe  Striping, I nc., C astle Rock, CO, for  the 2017 Epoxy  Striping (r ebid)
Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of RFP-6- 17 for the r edevelopment of 2020-2022 Capitol Avenue ,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, a nd descr ibed as a ll of L ots 1  and 2, Block 266, Orig inal City, City of
Cheyenne, Laramie, County, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contract #4913 Wind P ark Ea sement, betwe en the City  of
Cheyenne a nd Tierr a Ene rgy, L LC, to ex tend the contra ct term for  an additional 7 y ears
(installation of wind energy generation facilities at the Happy Jack Road City Landfill property)
– referred to Finance Committee.
Appointments of  Th omas Smi th a nd Aa ron Ben tley to t he Ho using a nd Com munity
Development A dvisory B oard a nd Judit h M yers to t he Do wntown D evelopment A uthority
Board.  Mr. Luna moved to appr ove, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the g overning body with the exception of May or Orr who did not vote (may oral
appointments).
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne
at the June  2, 2017 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Membership Business Meeting in
Gillette, Wy oming.  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) car ried (de signated May or M arian Or r as
Official Voting Delegate and Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, as Alternate Delegate).
[CA] Request to chang e loca tion of the dispensing  room for r etail liquor licensee  Cen tral
Enterprises, Inc., loca ted within the building addr essed a s 1701 and 1711 Care y Avenue ,
Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] A 201 E xception request to allow a se ptic wastew ater trea tment sy stem for a  6,000-
square foot offic e building on a  7-ac re site lo cated within L aramie County  jurisdiction but
contiguous to t he City of Cheyenne (located south of Dell Range Blvd. at its intersection with
US-30 at the terminus of Hensley Road)  – referred to Public Services Committee.
Announcement was made of a Special Meeting of the Governing Body of the City of
Cheyenne to be held Monday, May 15, 2017 at 12:00 p.m. (Noon) in City Council Chambers,
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Chey enne, Wyoming, for the purpose  of ac ting upon a  contract between
the City  of  Che yenne a nd Un ited H ealthcare fo r g roup he alth ins urance c overage fo r C ity
employees.
Under other business:
Larry Wolfe, on behalf of the Mayor’s Fight the Blight Committee, gave a presentation
on the Com mittee’s work since January  involving the identific ation of blig hted residential and
commercial proper ties and propose d solutions t o clean -up these ty pes of pr operties in the
community.  Committee members Julie Gliem confirmed that at least 50-60 properties have been
identified, a nd Steve B orin s poke in f avor o f a ddressing a bandoned o r v acant b uildings in
downtown. Comments were  made on displac ing r esidents; proper ty locations and finding
funding to provide for  abatement.  May or Orr thanked Committee memb ers for their time a nd
work on the project.  
Mr. Roybal commented on a group called Friends of the Belvoir Ranch, of which he is a
member, who would like to pursue the establishment of a recreational trail system on the City-
owned ranch.  T odd Thibodeau discusse d trail system developments at Curt Go wdy State Park,
which has increased the number of annual visitors to t he park and has become a user destination
stop, and spoke in s upport of developing a trail system on the ranch for users seeking multiple
trail options.
Mr. Shanor mov ed to introduce a n ordinanc e entitled as f ollows: “An Ordinanc e
amending Section 2.08.010, Appointment and term -- Removal -- Vacancy, of Chapter 2.08, City
Officers and Employees Generally, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the code of the
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming”, and refer the item to Public Services Committee, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, clarified that, procedurally, a motion isn’t needed f or Mr.
Shanor, as sp onsor, to introduce a n ordinanc e on 1  Reading , which will automatically  best
referred to one of  the Council’s  standing committees.  Mr. Shanor distributed copie s of the
proposed or dinance and advise d the purpose of  the ordinanc e is t o codify which depa rtment
directors would be required to be appointed by the Mayor, and confirmed by City Council, to
address t he Ma yor’s a dministrative re organization r elative to u pcoming bu dget di scussions.
Sylvia Hackl, City  Attorney, advised she had prepared two ordinances on the t opic.  One
ordinance conta ined only  those positions st atutorily mandated  to be appointed, w hich is the
version the Mayor supports, and the other ordinance, which Mr. Shanor introduced, includes the
statutorily required positions pl us all of the May or’s proposed department director positions per
the reorganization.
Mr. L aybourn commente d on a we stern water  sy stem confe rence he r ecently attended
and r ecognized t he B oard o f P ublic U tilities f or t heir p lanning a nd a wareness o f c ommunity
water issues.
There being  no further  business to come be fore the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 8:28 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
May 20, 2017