MEETING: May 15, 2017 Special Meeting of the Governing Body | DATE: 2017-05-15 | CLIP_ID: 600 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 600

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
May 15, 2017
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne convened in a special meeting on this date
beginning at Noon in Council Chambers for the purpose of considering a contract between the City
of Cheyenne and United Healthcare for group health insurance coverage for City employees.  Present
were:  MA YOR – M arian J. O rr; CO UNCIL ME MBERS – Rocky Case, B ryan Co ok, Pe te
Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott Roybal and Dicky Shanor.  Absent: Richard Johnson, Dr. Mark Rinne
and Jeff White.  Also present: Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Denise Freeman, Human Resources Director, reviewed employee healthcare plan coverage
since January 2016 when the City’s provider changed from WinHealth to Cigna, noting the coverage
through Cigna would expire on July 1 .  She outlined the process the City utilized to acquire quotesst
from providers due to Cigna’s notification that there would be a 63 percent increase (approximately
$5,000,000.00) in c ost to the City to c ontinue the current plan, which was not affordable.  M s.
Freeman explained the City’s utilization of Cobecon consultants, an employee benefit management
firm, to assist in discussion s with proposed provider s, including Cigna; review of proposals and
advice on a healthcare plan for employees.  Ms. Freeman advised the reason for conducting a special
City Council meeting  on the topic was to a cquire approval of a pr oposed contract with United
Healthcare, new plan provider, to a llow time for employee open enrollment so coverage could
continue under  the new pr ovider without a bre ak in cove rage.  C obecon repre sentatives Rob
Henderson and Diana Madvig provided a powerpoint presentation and discussed the City’s current
plan and costs; the proposal from United Healthcare, which closely equates to the current “Shelter
Plan” offered by Cigna, and responded to inquiries from Council members.  It was noted there would
be no cost increase to employees’ portion of health insurance costs under the United Healthcare plan.
Expressing concerns with the p roposed new healthca re plan were:  Stephanie L owe, Cheyenne
Public Employees Association; Jon Bertsch, Fire Fighters Union Local #279; Michael Gross, and
Mike Fernandez, Police officer.  Comments included concerns with the change in coverage options
and benefits; increased out-of-pocket employee costs;  lateness of notification of a new provider and
plan ch anges; lack of  involvement in the selec tion review pr ocess; vision cover age; no salar y
increases proposed to assist with higher deductible, co-pay and minimum amounts, and a past
insurance committee which included employee members and their opportunity to r eview health
coverage proposals.
Mr. Luna moved to approve the contract, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Discussion included:
Cigna’s rate increase; coverage for same sex partners; types of healthcare plans available; wellness
program; City’s claims experience; process resulting in the selection of Cobecon as a consultant;
coverage for firefighter union members; Cobecon’ s marketing practices to ac quire clients, and
purpose of the special meeting.  Throughout the meeting information in response to comments and
inquiries was provided by Mayor Orr; Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney; Alessandra McCoy, Assistant
City Attorney; Ms. Freeman; Mr.  Henderson and Ms. Madvig.  During comments regarding action
on the contract at the special meeting, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, clarified that if the motion is
approved (or not approved) at the current meeting, the agenda item, i.e. contract,  would not be listed
on the Council’s May 22, 2017 meeting agenda as the special meeting is an official meeting of the
governing body .  Mr. Shanor moved to postpone to May  22, 2017, seconde d by  Mr. Case.
Discussion followed on postponement allowing for information to be received on potential additional
plan options and related cost.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Mayor Orr voting “no”.
Purpose of the special meeting having been met, and there being no other business previously
noted for the special meeting, Mayor Orr adjourned the meeting at 1:34 p.m.
Submitted by,
Kylie Soden
Deputy City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
May 27, 2017