MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-05-22 | CLIP_ID: 603 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 603

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
May 22, 2017
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were:  MAYOR – Mar ian J . Orr;
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky  Case, B ryan Cook, Richard Johns on, Pete L aybourn, Mike
Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Absent: Scott Roybal.  Also present: Kylie
Soden, Deputy City Clerk, and Sy lvia Hackl, Cit y Att orney.  The pledg e of a llegiance, led by
members of the Mayor’s Youth Council, was recited.
Expression of Appreciation to the 2016-2017 May or’s Youth Council and State of  the
Youth Addre ss.  J an Spires, Planning  office  and Youth Council Coordinator, commende d the
group for their involvement and introduced Tanner Robertson, Mayor’s Youth Council Chair for
2016-2017.  Mr . Ro bertson p rovided th e Sta te of  the  Yout h address and  re viewed th e Yo uth
Council’s o bjectives a nd pr ojects d uring the  pa st y ear, sta ting the ir fo cus wa s o n c ommunity
youth mental health issues.  May or Orr presented Certificates of Appr eciation to the following
Youth Council members: Keiran Loughran, Carolyn Rude, Maggie Black, Hannah Brown, Dylan
Fertig, Julia Horst, Shelbi Moore, Ke nitra Shanks, Noah B ell, Taylor Hulbert, Da wson Eldred,
Hannah J ankovsky, Mr. R obertson and Saw yer Ruben ( not present) .  May or Orr  expressed
appreciation to  Ms.  Spi res a nd the  me mbers fo r t heir c ommitment t o s erving on  the  Youth
Council.
Consent Agenda.  ( All agenda items listed with t he designation of [C A] are considered to
be routine items by  the g overning body and will be enact ed by one motion. There  will be no
separate d iscussion o n th ese it ems u nless a  me mber o f th e g overning b ody s o r equests a nd
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence  on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant
to support recei ved by Mr. J ohnson and Mr. White, Ag enda Item #22 was re moved from the
Consent Agenda.  Mr. Shanor stated he  would abstain fr om voting participation on the Consent
Agenda due to Item #19 (business re lationship involving the State L oan and Investment Board),
and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Case moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items,
seconded by Mr. White.  Moti on carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of th e governing body
present i n Co uncil Ch ambers.  F ollowing announcement o f t he vo te, M r. Sha nor r eturned to
Council Chambers.
 [CA] Minutes f rom Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 8 , 2 017.  M otion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Shanor moved to a pprove payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE - - 3  REA DING – A n O rdinance creating Se ctions 8. 60.181, N otice tord
Lienholder, and 8.60.182, J unk Vehicle Impoundment-Transfer of Title to the City , of Chapter
8.60, Nuisances, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Anthony Vibbard spoke  in oppositi on of the ordina nce generally and expressed conc ern about
property rights for those with lesser  financial means; def inition of junk vehicles, and potential
financial incentive the City  could bene fit from if a junk ve hicle is auc tioned.  Mr. Vibbar d
commented in suppor t of  the ordinance applying to a  vehicle that may be dangerous to  t he
public.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Ben Rowland, City Attorney’s office, noted a
proposed a mendment may  addre ss the concern of any  incentive to the City  for a uctioning
vehicles.  Discussion followed on the definition of junk ve hicles, amending the o rdinance
pursuant t o M r. Row land’s c omment, a nd purpo se of the or dinance to a ssist w ith c ommunity
blight issues.  Mr. Case moved to postpone to June 12, 2017, seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Sylvia
Hackl, City Attorney, noted that due to a 5  week this month there will be extra time in which toth
work on amendment wording prior to the ordinance being reviewed again at the next Committee
meeting.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Rowland advised the amendment he has been working on addresses
clarifying the removal of financial incentive to t he City, and explained the notification process
and time provided to a  vehicle ow ner to re medy a junk vehicle  situation.  Further  discussion
continued on potentially amending the definition of junk vehic les; educating the public; concern
with further  postponement of the item; past unanswe red questions reg arding ordinanc e
provisions; non- urgency involving a f inal vote on the ordina nce, and potential wording  of the
future a mendment a s n oted b y Mr . Ro wland.  M otion to p ostpone ca rried. Vo ting "yes" -- a ll
members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.52, Massagerd
Establishments, within Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Cheyenne City  Code.
Reporting fo r Finance C ommittee, M r. L una m oved t o ap prove o n t hird an d fi nal re ading,
seconded by Mr. J ohnson.  Mot ion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the g overning body
present. (#4178)
ORDINANCE – 2  READI NG - A mending Sectio n 2.04.160, Reading s-Committeend
Reports-Amendments, of Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and
Personnel, of the  Code of the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming.  Dr . Rinne moved to approve  on
second r eading, seconde d by  Mr. J ohnson.  Discussion included the following : Proposed
ordinance re quirements; providing  adequa te not ice to the public a nd co-g overning body
members whe n a Council member br ings f orth an a mendment; curr ent proc edures; leg islative
process; Robert’s Rules of Order; transparency, and how the ordinance would apply to
ordinances on 3  and final reading only.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson,rd
Mr. White and Mayor Orr.  Voting “no ” -- Mr. Case, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr . Shanor and
Mr. Luna.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – Appr oving and establishing r evised water and sewernd
rates, tap and sy stem development fe es, administrative fe es, service charges and pe nalties, and
septic a nd c ommercial w aste du mp r ates, a s r ecommended b y the  B oard of  Pub lic Ut ilities.
Randy Hays, Board of Public Utilities, provided a detailed report on the purpose of requesting a
3% increase in rates, stating the additional revenue will be used to incre ase the number of miles
of wa ter a nd se wer l ines a nd fo r u pkeep o f p lants, d ams a nd re servoirs.  Mr . Luna mov ed to
approve on  se cond r eading, s econded b y Mr . Joh nson.  Motion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Luna voting “no”.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the  Cheyennend
Unified De velopment Code (UD C), amending Section 2.2.7 of the  UDC to clarif y what land
uses are subject to the spe cial use a pproval provision.  Dr. Rinne move d to approve  on second
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Eric Hammer, Development office, explained
there is n o c hange to t he c reative sign program pr ocess, jus t c larification in  the  sp ecial us e
section that defines what programs it includes.  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes”  -- all members of
the governing body present.
ORDINANCE –  2  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,nd
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Off icial Z oning Ma p, of the
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LR L ow-density
Residential and P Public to MR  Medium-density Residential  and P Public for all of B lock 4
(Lots 1 thru 9 inclusive), and those a djacent all ey rights-of-way, Spring V alley Addition,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast cor ner of the intersection of Townsend Place  and
Marjon Court).  Case y Palma, Steil S urveying Ser vices, a gent for the  applicant, r equested
consideration of a postponement to the next Ci ty Council meeting to allow time for nearby land
owners to review the applicant’s proposed re-design of the de velopment project planned for the
property, noting the r e-design c onsists of single fa mily detac hed re sidential instead of
duplex/multi-family units.  He noted the re -designed pl ans have  been submitted to the
Development office.  Speaking  in objection t o postponement and the zone c hange were:  Jodi
Nuss, Leslie Arnett, Marian Kline, Jim Gaulke, Mitch Ge rharter, Susan Hagan and Dave Clark.
Topics discussed include d: Concerns with flooding , drainage, increased traffic danger, parking
congestion, view obstruction and public safety; quality of life for residents in the vicinity; protest
petition that ha s b een s ubmitted; s uggestion of  a  la nd sw ap b etween th e City  a nd a pplicant;
current zo ne c lassification a nd a llowable development u se; c ompatible ho using de sign w ith
existing neighborhood; Unified De velopment Code and PlanChey enne provisions; wise gr owth;
spot zoning and potential legal issues; history of adjacent vacant land for public use and benefit;
traffic stu dy; de finition of “arroyo”, a nd e ffect of  de velopment o utside of  the  imm ediate
neighborhood.  Mr. Palma a nd Rande Pouppirt, applicant a nd project property owner, clarified a
re-plat has been submitted, which is pending before the Planning Commission and is r elated to
the zone change request, and will provide a dedicated drainage way to the City to help alleviate
existing f looding; indicated the r e-design c hange wa s based on listening  to neig hborhood
comments, and stated to e nable re-platting a zone change is required.  Mr. Pouppirt also advised
his development plans met all City  require ments and would involve s ingle family  detac hed
housing, and commented on his rig hts as a prope rty owner.  Dr. Rinne advised  ther e was no
recommendation on the item from Public Service s Committee.  Dr. Rinne moved to appr ove on
second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Concern was expressed with building in a floodplain
area. Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to J une 12, 2017, sec onded Mr. Case.  Discussion included:
Support for postponement; ordinance relating to zone change only and not the re-plat; drainage
proposal; staff reports and rec ommendations relative to f lood management; current surrounding
land zoning classifications, and providing communication and infor mation to the neig hborhood.
Upon inquiry, Seth Lloyd, Development office, confirmed he could pr ovide the governing body
with inf ormation on the per centage of immediate ly contig uous proper ties to the proposed re -
zoned property relative to the different types of zone classifications.  Motion to postpone carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Following a brief recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 7:47 p.m.
ORDINANCE – 2  READI NG – Appr opriating money s for the City  of Chey enne,nd
Wyoming f or the va rious purposes in conduc ting th e municipal g overnment of said City  and
fixing the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said
appropriation, all for the F iscal Ye ar be ginning July 1, 2017 and ending  J une 30, 2018.  The
following is a  su mmary of  the  pr oposed b udget: G eneral F und, $4 9,758,211; We ed a nd Pe st,
$513,589; Yout h Alterna tives Grants, $599,187; De velopment I mpact F ees, $151,200;
Recreation Prog rams, $1,111,883; Communit y Deve lopment Block Gra nt, $357,937; L aw
Enforcement G rants, $164,826; T ransportation Pl anning, $ 873,204; F TA Tr ansit G rant,
$2,300,605; Juvenile Justice, $159,161; Special Friends, $85,132; Special Purpose Option Tax,
$378,720; 1%  Ge neral Pu rpose Op tion T ax, $1 1,171,664; Y outh A ctivities, $2 4,700; G olf
Facilities, $201,000; Fleet Maintenanc e, $3,923,729; Solid W aste Mana gement F und,
$19,864,612; Civi c Center , $972,184; I ce a nd Events Center, $622,539; Ceme tery Perpetua l
Fund, $2 ,000; T otal Cit y, $ 93,236,083; Wa ter D epartment, $2 5,662,750; S ewer D epartment,
$15,504,750; Total Board of Public Utilities, $41,167,500; Total Appropriations, $134,403,583.
Mayor Orr  relinquished duties of the c hair to Council Presi dent Shanor.  President Shanor,
noting he also wished to participate in debate on the ordinance, relinquished duties of the chair to
Council Vice-President R inne.  Re porting for Committee of the Who le, Mr. Shanor moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. S hanor moved to amend by removing $40,000.00 from
the Mayor’s budget and inserting $40,000.00 into the Miscellaneous/Special Projects/Abandoned
Building Fund, whic h shall only  be used f or dang erous and abandone d building re mediation,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Comments were made in support of the proposed amendment.  Motion
to amend carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Discussion topics
included: Response infor mation that had been r eceived from staf f pursuant to Council m ember
requests made at the Committee of the Whole meeting ; Cit y’s concre te cr ew, a nd funding  of
Trails Planner ( Greenway) Coordinator e mployee position and other  maintenanc e positions
through the g eneral fund instead of  6  penny funds.  Mr. L aybourn moved to ame nd byth
increasing the line item under the Engineering budget for the Greenway Coordinator’s salary in
the amount of $79,907.00, seconded by Mr. Case.  Discussion included:  Attracting and retaining
qualified employees; placing the position i n the general fund; concern with locating funding for
the position fund cha nge and balancing the budget; using 6  penny salary savings toward capitalth
improvement projects; on-going budget expense; tabling  the motion; updating of position’s job
description; pl acement of Gre enway Coordinator position un der Eng ineering in the ne w
administrative re organizational structure; and sala ries and be nefits of other  maintenanc e
positions funded with 6  penny monies.  Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, advised when an item isth
tabled, a motion is n eeded to take it o ff the table.  M otion to amend failed.  Vo ting “no” -- all
members of  the g overning body  prese nt with the  exception of Mr . L aybourn voting  “y es”.
Discussion continued and included the following topics: Employee compensation and evaluation
information p rovided b y the  Ma yor pu rsuant t o r equest made at th e Com mittee of  the  Who le
meeting; employ ee ma rket and merit salar y adjustments that have be en made , including
uniformed e mployees; Mer cer Group 2013 Employ ee I nvestment Study  (EIS) and additional
salary research for c ertain p ositions conducted by  Human Resourc es that we re used for sa lary
adjustment considerations; request to Mayor, prior to the next Committee of the Whole meeting,
to provide an upda ted ana lysis of employ ee ma rket salary rang es for  executive positions and
other p ositions t hat h ave r eceived m arket i ncreases, excluding b enefits, c ompared t o t he E IS
market minimum recommendation; internal administrative  process in determining market salary
ranges; employ ee a ttrition; proposed sa lary incre ases f or executi ve positions and re- occurring
cost; c oncern wi th j ustification, ob jectivity and c onsistency in d etermining sa lary a djustments;
lack of  communication with  City Council on the numerous salar y adjustments that have be en
made; b alanced budget and idea s for incr eased revenue and e xpenditure projections; employee
health insuranc e cost incr ease, and compa rison of sal aries with simi lar positions in Col orado.
During discussion on the budget topic, information was provided by Vicki Nemecek, Director of
Public Works (concrete crew); Jeff Wiggins, Trails Planner (G reenway) Coordinator ( stretching
6  penny dollars for capital projects by moving the Coordinator salary into the general fu nd);th
Robin Lockman, De puty City  Trea surer (6  penny  funds used for  cer tain salary  positions);th
Mayor Orr (market and merit sa lary adjustments, performance evaluations and Fiscal Year 2018
proposed b udget i nformation); J ason Sanchez, In terim P arks a nd R ecreation D irector ( EIS
history, salary  adjustment examples within the depar tment), and Ms. Ha ckl, City  Attorney
(salary adjustment information, org anization restructuring  and lac k of a City  pay  structure ).
Motion to approve on second reading, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no” .  Following  announcement
of the vote, Dr. Rinne returned duties of the chair to Mayor Orr.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING - A mending Section 2.08.010, Appointment and term –nd
Removal – Vac ancy, of Chapter  2.08, City  Offic ers a nd Employ ees G enerally, of Title 2,
Administration and Personnel, of the code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Luna moved
to approve on second r eading, seconded by Mr. J ohnson.  Glen Ga rrett commented in favor  of
keeping the position of Planning Services Director as an appointed position wit h s eparate
department status.  Mr. Case moved to amend to r etain t he Planning Service s Direc tor as an
appointed position and approved by Council, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  During comment on the
reorganizational chart and the purpose  of plac ing de velopment and planning  are as under  the
Engineering Department, Mr. Shanor ra ised a point of orde r that any  quest ions directed to the
Mayor should perhaps result in the Mayor relinquishing duties of the chair.  Discussion followed
on: Purpose  of the position not being an appointed position pursua nt to the r eorganizational
change and placement under the City Engineer; future guidance of City growth through planning
services; past co mmunity succe ss achieve d by  the planning  depar tment; professional future
planning an d d evelopment i nvolving t he w estern an d s outhern ar eas o f t he C ity; ap pointing a
Development Director vs. Public Services Director; appointed positions and departments relative
to r eorganization a nd ne xt y ear’s b udget, a nd po ssible a mendment t o c hange a ppointee te rms
from two to four y ears.  During  discussion, May or Orr  provided infor mation on cabinet leve l
positions required to be appointed by  statute; difficulty  in finding a n individual to fill  the
planning position d ue to political will (i.e. appointed position with a defined two y ear term of
employment) and r ecent community issues invo lving the de partment.  Motion to amend fa iled.
Voting “yes” -- Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Johnson,
Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Ma yor Orr.  Discussion continued on the a dministrative
reorganization and pending budget ordinance.  Main motion car ried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Cook,
Mr. Johnson, Mr. L una, Dr. Rinne, M r. Shanor and Ma yor Orr.  Voting “ no” -- Mr. Case, Mr.
Laybourn and Mr. White.
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – De fining the terms and c onditions of employment forst
non-uniformed e mployees o f t he City  of  Che yenne fo r F iscal Y ear 2 017-2018 – r eferred to
Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Pete Laybourn)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – De fining the terms and c onditions of employment forst
sworn o fficers of  the C heyenne Poli ce De partment f or F iscal Y ear 2 017-2018 – r eferred to
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Pete Laybourn)
ORDINANCE –  1  REA DING – Re pealing Cha pter 5 .12, Al coholic B everages, in i tsst
entirety and creating a new Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of  T itle 5,
Business Licenses and Regulations, of the code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Rocky Case, Mike Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION – A uthorizing su bmission of  a n a pplication to  the  Wy oming B usiness
Council’s B usiness R eady Com munity, Community Re adiness G rant P rogram to  a ssist i n
funding the Christensen Railroad O verpass and Corridor Projec t.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#5851)
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the  Mayor and the  City Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for T he
Bluffs 11  Filing, a Final Plat of land situate in the NW¼ of Section 21, T.14N., R.66W., of theth
6th P.M., L aramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of Point Bluff  and
Crane Bluff).  D r. Rinne moved to adopt with the following  staff c ondition, seconded by  Mr.
Johnson: The applicant shall revise the F inal Plat to place a dr ainage easement on Lot 7 per the
City Engineer’s standards.  Motio n carried.  Voting  “yes” - all members of  the g overning body
present. (#5852) 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat f or
Spring Court, a re plat of L ots 10 and 11, Bloc k 6, Meadow brooke Park 2nd Filing and being
situated in  the  N½  of  the  N½  Se ction 2 9, To wnship 1 4 N orth, Range 66 West of the  6th
Principal Me ridian, City  of  Che yenne, L aramie Cou nty, Wy oming (l ocated w est o f B luegrass
Circle, north of Meadowland Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5853)
RESOLUTION – Appr oving th e Downtown Stra tegic Parking  Manag ement Plan.  Dr.
Rinne moved to adopt, seconde d by  Mr. J ohnson.  Discussion included: Value of  the study
recommendations vs. cost of the study ; rec ommendation from consultants that  the City “fa rm
out” its parking  opera tions to t he priva te sector for manag ement; funding  conce rns; parking
services and enf orcement are as af fected by  the administrative re organization; acknow ledging
receipt of the plan vs. a pproving or adopting t he plan.  Mr. S hanor move d to amend the
Resolution entitlement to read “A Resolution acknowledging receipt of the Downtown Strategic
Parking Management Plan” a nd the Now, The refore, Be It Resolved clause  to rea d “That, the
Downtown Strategic Parking Management Plan dated A pril 2017, is h ereby acknowledged and
received b y the  g overning bo dy as a g uide to i mplement p olicies a nd pr actices to  e ffectively
manage the public pa rking prog ram for  downtown Chey enne”, sec onded by  Mr. J ohnson.
Motion carried. Voting “yes” -- all member s of the gover ning body present.  Main motion, as
amended, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5854)
[CA] RESOLUTION – D eclaring a s su rplus City -owned p roperty located a t 20 6 We st
Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming, legally described as the East 22  feet of L ot 7, Block 390,nd
Original City, together with improvements thereon, Che yenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and
authorizing the sale of said parcel to the Cheyenne-Laramie County Corporation for Economic
Development (Cheyenne LEADS), pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-112(b)(i)(D), to benefit the
economic development of the municipality.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5855)
[CA] RESOLUTION –  A pproving th e b udget o f th e Ch eyenne D owntown D evelopment
Authority fo r t he F iscal Y ear be ginning July  1,  20 17 a nd e nding June  30 , 2 018 –  re ferred to
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mike Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION – A uthorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle
Ridge, 12  Filing, a replat of Lots 2-37, Block 1; Lots 1-26, Block 2; Lots 1-8, Block 3; Lots 2-th
15; Block 4; L ots 1-12, Block 5; and L ots 1-11, Block 6 of Saddl e Ridge, 8  Filing, Cheyenne,th
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the junction of Wilderness and Red Feather Trails,
north o f E . Pe rshing B oulevard – referred to  Pub lic Se rvices Co mmittee. ( Sponsor – Sc ott
Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting  an ame ndment to the land use c ategories under  Urba n
Residential Zone Districts in PlanChey enne, the master plan f or the City  of Cheyenne and the
comprehensive plan f or portions of L aramie County – ref erred to Public Services Comm ittee.
(Sponsor – Scott Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department
of Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation program grant to provide the local
match for operating funds for the City  of Chey enne for its transit prog ram, as authorized by 49
U.S.C. §5311 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mike Luna)
Following a brief recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 9:46 p.m.
Contract between the City of Cheyenne and United Healthcare for group health insurance
coverage fo r C ity e mployees.  De nise F reeman, Human Re sources D irector, r eported th at,
pursuant to discussion and re quest for a dditional options for e mployee plan coverage, options
were prepared and distributed.  Diana  Madvig, Cobecon consultant, provided information on the
five different plan options (Orange,  Green, Purple, Brown and B lue plans); we llness plan; plan
rates; Affordable Care Act notifica tion requirements; i mportance of ha ving a sustainable plan;
deductible a nd co-pa ys; health reimburse ment acc ount (HRA) option;  recommendation of the
Blue plan; out-of-ne twork employ ee c osts, and impact of the City ’s hig h claims utiliz ation.
Stephanie Lowe, Interim President, Cheyenne Public Employees Association (CPEA), expressed
appreciation for the  difficulty of the g overning body’s decision on an employ ee health plan a nd
the information provide d by Human Resourc es and Cobecon, and stated the pre ferred plan was
the Orange plan option, second preference would be the Pu rple plan, and, if not affordable, then
the B lue plan option.  She noted the importanc e of pla n sustainability  and off ered assistance
through CPEA involvement on future plan covera ge discussions, wellness plan, a nd plan
implementation.  Mr. Luna moved to approve the Blue (Shelter) plan, seconded by Mr. Johnson.
Discussion included:  Blue plan be ing the most fiscally responsible with the be st coverage; one
plan for unif ormed a nd non-uniforme d employees; plan c overage t erm would be for one  year
effective July 1, 2017; possibil ity of incorpor ating an HRA plan in the f uture, and information
provided on the optional plans and re lated costs.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s
of the g overning body prese nt with th e exception of Mr. Case and Mr . J ohnson voting “ no”.
(#6658)
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Laramie County School
District No. 1 for a  School Resource  Offic er f or summer school 2017.  Motion (per  Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6659)
[CA] Contract betwe en the City  of Chey enne a nd WY CO Recycling L LC, to acce pt and
process single-stream and commercial cardboard recyclables (Solid Waste funds).  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6660)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and the City
of Doug las, Wy oming, f or law e nforcement extraterritorial assistance .  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried. (#6661)
[CA] Customer Service Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Absolute Shredding, to
provide document destruction process services to the Cheyenne Police Department.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6662)
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Cheyenne F rontier
Days, I nc., for  the use of City -owned land and building s for pa rking, camping, and other
activities during the 2017 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n Chey enne F rontier Days, I nc., the City  of
Cheyenne and Laramie Coun ty School District Number One, for buses owned by the Laramie
County School District Number O ne to be use d and oper ated for public transpor tation services
during the 2017 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses
owned by the Laramie County School District Number One to b e used and operated for public
transportation s ervices d uring the  20 17 Che yenne F rontier D ays c elebration –  re ferred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for United
States Department of the Air Force owned land located at F.E. Warren Air Force Base to be used
and oper ated a s a par king lot for  public transporta tion s ervices during the  2017 Chey enne
Frontier Days celebration – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement be tween th e City  of  Che yenne a nd the  Che yenne Com petitive B aseball
Association d/ b/a C heyenne Mu stangs Bas eball f or t he p urpose of s ponsoring th e C ABA
(Continental A mateur B aseball A ssociation) 18 U 2 017 Wo od B at Wo rld Series to  be  he ld i n
Cheyenne August 4-12, 2017 – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement and re lated wa rranty deed be tween the  City of Chey enne a nd Chey enne,
Light, Fuel & Power  Company  d/b/a Bla ck Hills Energ y for the pipe line ease ment along  the
proposed Chica go Bur lington &  Quincy railroa d trail in J L Ranch Subd ivision, and affiliated
acquisition of property by the City (Greenway Right-of-Way)  – referred to Finance Committee.
Consideration of B id #E-21-17 for  furnishing  one new  2017/2018 2,000 ga llon water
truck for the City’s Landfill Division (Solid Waste funds).  Mike Gillam, Floyd’s Truck Center,
advised that over a period of six years, one manufacturer has been awarded 97% o f t he C ity’s
bids and expressed c oncern wi th t he City ’s c ompetitive bid  pr ocess a nd c ontent o f b id
specifications.  James Balzer, Peterbilt of Wyoming, discussed bid specifications and exceptions
and urged awarding the bid t o the lowest compliant vendor.  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public
Works, explained specifications are based on the nee ds of the City; provided information on the
three companies tha t responded to the bid, a nd revie wed spe cification ex ceptions and
specifications t hat F loyd’s T ruck C enter f ailed t o m eet.  M r. L una m oved t o a ccept t he b id
submitted b y P eterbilt of  Wy oming in t he a mount o f $ 118,546.00 [City  c lerk no te:  Ms .
Nemecek clarified the c orrect amount of the bid wa s $118,576.00], seconded by  Mr. J ohnson.
Discussion followed and included: Prior bids for trucks being awarded to one company 35 out of
36 times since 2011; specification towing provision, and researching other municipalities’ RFP
(Request for Proposals) bid proce sses.  Upon inquiry  during discussion, Ms. Nemece k clarified
the bid specification was written by the Landfill Manager and Fleet Maintenance Director; noted
that Pe terbilt ha s a djusted th e ve hicles th ey ha ve bid  to m eet Cit y sp ecification re quirements;
explained City  lia bility re lative to t he ve hicle tow ing pr ovision, a nd ind icated w illingness t o
research other municipali ties’ bid proce dures.  Motion ca rried.  V oting “yes” -- all member s of
the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-13-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Kolbe  Striping, I nc., Castle Rock, CO, for the 2017 Epoxy  Striping (r ebid)
Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Ta x).  Mot ion (per Consent Age nda) carried (accepted bid from
Kolbe Striping, Inc., Castle Rock, CO, in an amount not to exceed $133,187.50). (#6663)
[CA] Consideration of RFP-6- 17 for the r edevelopment of 2020-2022 Capitol Avenue ,
Cheyenne, Wyoming, a nd d escribed a s a ll o f Lots 1  a nd 2 , B lock 2 66, O riginal C ity, Ci ty of
Cheyenne, L aramie, County , Wy oming. Motion (p er Consent Ag enda) car ried (a pproved the
proposal submitted by The Diocese of Cheyenne in the amount of $1,270,000.00). (#6664)
[CA] Consideration of B id #S-12-17 for a  contract betwe en the City of Chey enne, Facilities
Maintenance Division, and Ameri- Tech HVAC Services, Inc., of Cheyenne, for mechanical and
HVAC systems maintenance for 14 City Buildings Project – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Amendment No.  2 to Contract #4913 Wind P ark Ea sement, betwe en the City  of
Cheyenne a nd Tierr a Ene rgy, L LC, to ex tend the contract term for a n additional 7 y ears
(installation of wind energy generation facilities at the Ha ppy Jack Road City Landfill property).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#4913)
[CA] Bar & grill liquor license application filed with the  City Clerk’s Office for P aramount
Café, LLC d/b/a Paramount Ballroom, 1607 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for T yn-Tyn
Enterprises, L LC d/b/a Tasty  Bone s BB Q &  Ba kery, 171 9 Central Ave nue, Chey enne,
Wyoming. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Restaurant liquor license applica tion filed with the City  Clerk’s Office for Nagle Warren
Mansion, LLC d /b/a N agle W arren M ansion LLC, 2 22 E ast 1 7  S treet, C heyenne, W yoming.th
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Request to chang e loca tion of the dispensing  room for r etail liquor li censee Centr al
Enterprises, I nc., loca ted within the building addr essed a s 1701 and 1711 Care y Avenue ,
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
A 201 Exception req uest to allow a septic w astewater tre atment sy stem for a  6,000-
square foot offic e building on a  7-ac re site loca ted within L aramie County jurisdiction but
contiguous to t he City of Cheyenne (located south of Dell Range Blvd. at it s intersection with
US-30 at the terminus of Hensley Road).  Andrea Shepard, property owner, expressed her belief
that they qualify for the 201 e xception due to the a mount it wil l cost to tap into the sewer  line
across the highw ay.  She stated the c ost could be approximately $300,000.00, not including the
cost of surve ys and ea sements, to install an 8" se wer line and a “g rinder”.  Susana Montana,
Development office, stated there  are two sewe r lines in prox imity to the parc el, one a t Whitney
Rd. and US-30 (2,200 linear ft. distant from the parcel) and a second one at Saddle Ridge Trail
and US-30 (320 linea r ft. in distance ).  She provided inf ormation on the shorter  option with an
open cut scenario, and advised City Engineer staff suggests the applicant did not investi gate the
shorter option, which should be a  lesser cost. Ms. Montana noted communication with WYDOT
was made as to whe ther they would permit extension of the sewer  line within US-30, by  either
boring under or  doing a n open cut in the hig hway, noting e ither would be approved but that an
open cut would be less expensive.  She re ported the shorter route option was not investigated by
the a pplicant’s e ngineer a nd sta ff, th erefore, f eels t he 20 1 e xception fo r eco nomic h ardship
purposes has not been met as financial hardship information for that option was not submitted.
She indicated the Board of Public Utilities (BOPU) advised they could provide service to the site
and that B OPU had recommended the pr operty be anne xed into the City .  Ms. Shepard stated
they did check, after the fact, into the cost of the shorter route and to annex the property would
cost almost $1,000,000.00, noting that doing an open cut is expensive due to traffic management
costs while the work is conducted.  Dr. Rinne reported there was no recommendation on the item
from Public Service s Commi ttee.  Dr . Rinne moved to app rove, seconded by  Mr. J ohnson.
Discussion in cluded estimated costs re lated to the har dship ex ception re quest and a pplicant’s
availability to r eapply fo r t he re quest, if  the  mot ion fa iled, wi th a dditional fina ncial ha rdship
information.  Motion failed.  Voting  “yes” - - Mr. L aybourn.  Voting  “n o” --  Mr. Case, Mr.
Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. White and Mayor Orr.
Announcement was made of a Public He aring to be held Monday, June 12, 2017 at 6:00
p.m. in Ci ty Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue , for pr oposed budg ets for t he City  of
Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2018.
Announcement w as ma de of  the  Ap pointment o f Ja son B ogstie to t he Hi storic
Preservation Board, to be confirmed June 12, 2017.
Announcement was made that a Calcutta, benefitting the Multiple Sclerosis Society, will
be held Thur sday, J une 22, 2017 begin ning at 7:00 p.m. at Uncle Char lie’s L ounge, 6001
Yellowstone Roa d, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunc tion with the 23  annual Unc le Charlie’ srd
“DONE” golf tournament (15% of proceeds go to the Multiple Sclerosis Society). 
Under other business:
Mr. J ohnson inquired whethe r there  was intere st in reconsider ing the  vote on the
sanitation rate or dinance that failed a t the May  8, 2017  City Council meeting .  May or Orr
explained that a motion to reconsider would need to be made by a Council member who voted
on the prevailing side (i.e. one who voted “no”) on the ordinance.  No motion to reconsider was
offered.
There being  no further  business to come before the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 10:58 p.m.
Submitted by,
Kylie Soden
Deputy City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
June 3, 2017