MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-06-12 | CLIP_ID: 605 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 605

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
June 12, 2017
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were:  MAYOR – Mar ian J . Orr;
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky  Case, B ryan Cook (ar riving at 6:03 p.m.), Richard Johnson,
Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne (a rriving at 6:11 p.m.), Scott Roy bal, Dicky Shanor
and J eff W hite.  A lso p resent: Carol In tlekofer, C ity Clerk, a nd S ylvia H ackl, C ity Attorney.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [C A] are considered to
be routine items by  the go verning body and will be ena cted by one motion. There  will be no
separate discussion on these  items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence  on the ag enda.).  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, noted that I tem
#23 had inadvertently been placed on the Consent Agenda and would be read into the record and
open for discussion.  Upon reque st by  Mr. Shanor, a nd pursuant to support re ceived by  Mr.
Johnson and Mr. White, Item #21 w as removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to
approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. 
[CA] Minutes from Special Me eting of the Gove rning Body on May  15, 2017. Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on May  22, 2017.   Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell
Chevrolet) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Case moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, sec onded by Mr. Cook.  Upon inquiry , J im Voeller, City  Eng ineer, provided
information on vouche rs payable to AVI  (professional services for project at Duff a nd 20  St.)th
and Western Research and Development, Ltd. (consultation services for 19th/20th O’Neil Alley
project).  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council
Chambers with the e xception of Mr . L aybourn voting “ no”.  F ollowing a nnouncement of the
vote, Mr. Roybal returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Orr opened a  Public Hear ing for proposed budget for the  City of Chey enne and
Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2018 for the purpose of receiving comments and input.
Joe Dougherty commented on e mployee salary adju stments and hea lth insurance c osts.  There
being no further  comments or input and purpose  of th e hearing having  been me t, Mayor Orr
closed the public hearing.
ORDINANCE -- 3  READING – An Ordinance creating Sections 8.60.181, Notice tord
Lienholder, and 8.60.182, Junk Vehicle I mpoundment-Transfer of Title to the City , of Chapter
8.60, Nuisances, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Phil Degiorgio, Cheyenne Collision Center, inquired whether the ordinance would impact hi s
business services due to vehicles awaiting repair that are parked outside.  Emmett L usher, Code
Enforcement O fficer, Che yenne Pol ice De partment, a dvised th e ordina nce do esn’t pe rtain t o
establishments that are  zoned to conduct business .  Chuck West discussed potential are as of
abuse regarding enforcement discretion and provided scenarios relating to the topic.  Mr. L usher
advised the Board of Adjustment would serve a s discretionar y protec tion for the public.
Reporting for Public Service s Commi ttee, Mr. Roy bal moved to appr ove on third and f inal
reading, seconded by  Mr. L una.  Mr. Case  moved to amend by  substitut e, sec onded by  Mr.
Cook.  I t was noted the sub stitute provides a more  expanded def inition for “junk vehicle”  and
clarifies the procedure for an owner who may seek to re cover proceeds if their ve hicle is sold at
auction.  Di scussion followed and included a suggestion that a public meeting be scheduled to
provide information on the ordinance to the community.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” --  a ll
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  (#4179)
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – Appr oving a nd establishing r evised wa ter a nd sewe rrd
rates, tap and sy stem development fe es, administrative fees, service charges and pe nalties, and
septic a nd c ommercial w aste du mp r ates, a s r ecommended b y the  B oard of  Pub lic Ut ilities.
Reporting fo r F inance C ommittee, M r. W hite m oved t o ap prove o n t hird an d fi nal re ading,
seconded by Mr. J ohnson.  Mot ion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the g overning body
with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Luna voting “no”. (#4180)
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the  Cheyennerd
Unified De velopment Code (UD C), amending  Section 2.2.7 of the UD C to clarify  what land
uses are subject to the special use a pproval provision.  Mr. Roy bal moved to appr ove on third
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the
governing body. (#4181)
ORDINANCE – 3  READING - Amending Section 2.08.010, Appointment and term –rd
Removal – Vac ancy, of Chapter  2.08, City  Officers a nd Employ ees G enerally, of Title 2,
Administration a nd Pe rsonnel, o f t he c ode of  the  City  of  Che yenne, Wy oming.  M r. Whit e
moved to approve o n third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  M r. White moved to
amend by adding “p lanning and development director” prior to the lang uage “support services
director” in Section 2.08.010 (A), se conded by Mr. Cook.  Comments were made  in support of
the amendment.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
Upon inquiry, Mayor Orr  advised the suppor t service s director and community  rec reation and
events director positions would be forthcoming before City Council for approval; the planning
and development director job de scription will need to be upda ted and posted f or applicants, and
stated she is interested in extending the length of terms for appointed positions from two year to
four y ears to coincide with the e lected te rm o f the mayor and a ssist wit h rec ruitment and
retention of appointed personnel.  Upon inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, explained the term
length of appointed positions is currently set by City Code and is not contained in state statutes.
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” --  all members of the governing body. (#4182) 
ORDINANCE –  3  RE ADING –  A ppropriating mo neys f or th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne,rd
Wyoming for the va rious purposes in conduc ting the municipa l gove rnment of sa id Cit y and
fixing the amount of g eneral and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said
appropriation, all for the F iscal Year beginning July 1, 2017 and ending  J une 30, 2018.  Bob
Fecht, Chey enne A nimal Control/S helter, a nd Wally  Erickson, C heyenne Downtown
Development Authority  (DDA ) B oard, e ach spoke  about cur rent e conomic and budg etary
concerns and commented in support of proposed amendments to the budget ordinance that would
be off ered during  Council discussion invol ving the  An imal Shelter a nd DDA.  Repor ting f or
Committee of the Whole, Mr. Shanor moved to approve  on third and final r eading, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by substitute ordinance, seconded by Dr. Rinne, which
includes the following amendments made  and appr oved at the Ma y 7, 2017 Commi ttee of the
Whole (C OW) me eting: Re duce the  fo llowing bu dgets: Ma yor’s, $ 85,500.00; C ommunity
Recreation and Eve nts, $10,000.00; Enginee ring, $10,000.00 to be re moved from the Planning
and Development Department budget; Public Works, $30,000.00, for a total of $135,500.00 to
be placed in unrestricte d reserves; remove $139,000.00 from Ec onomic Development (Animal
Shelter li ne it em) to  b e p laced in  u nrestricted r eserves ( total o f $ 274,500.00); tr ansfer
$274,500.00 into unrestricted r eserves (w hich re flects the fore going budg et cuts); tra nsfer
$1,270,000.00 from Miscellane ous Revenue and place  into a new line item in unre stricted
reserves designated for Capital I mprovement Projects; increase revenue as f ollows: $63,000.00
for 6 new bar and grill liquor licenses; $80,000.00 projected additional Ice and Events and Civic
Center r evenue; $100,000.00 projecte d additional sales tax tourism  revenue (total of
$243,000.00); reduce department health insurance pr emium line items (prorate d by department
for c urrent employ ee a ccounts) a nd place  in unrestricted re serves; keep full-time e mployee
numbers per department as referenced (at Committee of the Whole mee ting) for a  total of 572
full-time employ ees; fr om Transfe r line item remove  $188,00 0.00 (fr om Soli d Waste fee
schedule revenue), and all other deductions and cuts, and place in unrestricted reserves for a new
balance of $810,900.00 .  Brief discussion followed on inc luding a  dollar amount for  the
amendment contained in the subst itute involving employee health insurance premiums.  Motion
to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Mr. Shanor
moved to amend the substitute ordinance by reducing department health insurance premium line
items prorated  by department for cur rent e mployee a ccounts a nd place  the saving s of
$535,425.00 in unrestricted reserves, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body.  Upon inquiry, David Pope, DAPCPA Pope & Jackson, Inc.,
Contract City  Tre asurer, provided inf ormation on past and f uture pa yments due for  parking
structure bonds.  Discussion followed on the need for a long term payment strategy to pay off the
bonds and possibilit y of looking  at a biennia l instead of annua l budge t pro cess.  Mr. Shanor
moved to amend the substitute ordinance by putting $139,000.00 from unrestricted reserves back
into the Economic Community  Development expenditure line item to bring the A nimal Shelter
line ite m up  to $ 299,000.00, s econded b y Mr . Co ok.  M otion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Case and Mr. Johnson voting “no”.
Mr. Shanor moved to re duce the Economic Commun ity Development expenditure line item by
$60,000.00, which will reduc e the DD A block g rant funding  acc ordingly, secon ded by  Mr.
Cook.  It was noted that in addition to block grant funding there is an additional $100,000.00 in
the 1% Sales Tax 2015-2018 line item dedica ted to the DDA r esulting in total funding for DDA
in the amount of $390,000.00.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning
body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.
Following a brie f recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the  meeting at 7:10 p.m.  Mr. Shanor
moved to amend the substitute ordinanc e by  putting $450,000.00 of the  newly  cre ated $1.27
million Capital I mprovement li ne item into Miscellaneous Reve nue to be use d for the
$450,000.00 bond pay ment on t he Spiker pa rking structure with the Capital I mprovement line
item r educed accord ingly, s econded b y Mr . Ro ybal.  M otion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll
members of the g overning body with the exception of Mr. Johnson vot ing “no”.  Mr. Shanor
moved to fre eze the following e ight vaca nt personnel positions, seconde d by  Mr. Case:
Attorney/Legal Administrative Assistant; Building/Combination I nspector; Huma n Resource s
Coordinator ; Munic ip al Co urt/ Deputy  Cl erk; Parks/Sprinkler Tec hnician;
Parks/For estry /Ar b o r is t I I ; P la n n in g /D e v e lo p me n t/ Pl a n n e r  I I  and
Planning/Development/Planning and Development Manager with the free ze remaining in place
until $100,741.00 in pay roll saving s is realized during  Fisca l Year  2018 and said saving s are
placed in general fund reserves.  During discussion, Mayor Orr asked that consideration be given
to savings that will  be realized with unfilled positions, until filled, for the Fire Chief and City
Treasurer positions.  Mr. Shanor clarified the motion would read that any payroll savings at all
realized a s o f Jul y 1 w ould c ount t oward the  $1 00,741.00 a nd as so on a s th at w as me t in
backfilled reserves the hiring  freeze on the eig ht named positions would be lifted.  Discussion
followed o n v acancy sa vings; re-a ppropriation r equest i n th e fu ture to m ove the  sa vings in to
unrestricted reserves from which money will need to be take n now and ba ckfilled later.  Mayor
Orr questioned whether unspent budget funds from the various departments remaining at the end
of the current fiscal y ear could count towar d the $100,741.00 amount with Mr. Shanor stating
that wo uld n ot be specific t o h is p roposed am endment wh ich i s t o re alize p ayroll s avings
independent of those re versions, noting the re versions could g o into unrestricted  reserves to be
used at the g overning body’s discr etion.  During  discussion, Sy lvia Hackl, Cit y Attorney, and
Mr. Pope offered suggestions on how to handle fundi ng and repayment of the $100,741.00 fr om
reserves, a nd inserting  the fr eeze of positions, i f the motion was appr oved, into the budg et
ordinance as a  footnote.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body
with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mayor Orr voting “no”.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend to
indicate that by  the end of  Fiscal Year 2018 the M ayor will reduce the City ’s permanent total
full-time employ ee c ount from 572 to 568 or less and i dentify a combination of r ecurring
revenues and cuts to recurr ing expenditures to pay  for the $475,000.00 pa rking structure bond
payment due in Fiscal Year 2019, seconded by Mr. Case.  It was noted the amendment would not
be specific to depa rtments but overa ll the employ ee count would not exceed 572 a nd would be
reduced to 568 by  the end of  Fisca l Year  20 18 and will help with funding f uture pa rking
structure bond pay ments.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” -- all members of  the g overning body
with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend the f ootnote to the
budget as recommended at the last Committee of the Whole meeting to “cap” the total number of
authorized full-time employ ees at 572 with the “ca p” applying t o the total full-time employ ee
count with no “ca p” at the de partment level for the n umber of authorized employ ees, seconded
by Mr. Roy bal.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “y es” - - all members  of the governing body .  Mr.
Shanor moved that starting July 1, 2018 and for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018 no employee
hired after the effective date of this ordinance  shall have a  base sa lary that exceeds the O ctober
1, 2013 Merc er Group, Inc. Compensation and Classifica tion St udy market max imum rate for
the position gra de for which the e mployee is be ing hired, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Discussion
topics included: Am endment leaving  “wig gle room” f or administrative e mployee r ecruitment
and retention purposes; updating  the salar y study and re sources available as a g uide for sa lary
data f or t he r egion.  M otion c arried.  V oting “ yes” -- all members o f t he g overning b ody.
Comments on the main motion as amended  included having a balanced budget based upon all of
the amendments, and clarification of the funding amount for DDA.  Mai n motion as amended (9
times) carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body with the  exception of Mr.
Cook and Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  (#4183)
ORDINANCE –  2  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,nd
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Secti on 5.1.3 Offic ial Z oning Ma p, of the
Unified D evelopment C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification fr om L R L ow-density
Residential and P Public to MR Medium-density  Residential and P Public for all of B lock 4
(Lots 1 thru 9  inclusive), and those adjac ent alley  rig hts-of-way, Spring V alley Addition,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast cor ner of the intersection of T ownsend Place and
Marjon Cou rt) (postponed f rom Ma y 22 , 2 016).  Co mmenting on  the  ordinance were:  L eslie
Arnett, Mitch Ger harter, Will  Sadler a nd Marian K line.  Topics discussed include d:
Neighborhood conc erns inv olving the  proposed r e-zoning and re sidential project de velopment
plans by  the property owner /developer; 50 y ear vs. 100 y ear flood eve nts; neighbor hood
covenants; pr otest p etition tha t ha d b een f iled; “ spot” zon ing c oncerns, a nd ri ghts of  pr operty
owners.  Kelly  Haf ner, B enchMark Eng ineers, age nt for the a pplicant, provided infor mation
regarding drainage in t he area.  Deb Roden, attorney, Wo odhouse Roden Nethercott law firm,
representing the prope rty owner/developer, explained revised residential dwelling de velopment
plans that have been submitted and a ddressed complaint cate gories that had be en presented by
the neig hborhood, noting the pr oject mee ts Cit y require ments.  Ms. Roden noted she had
submitted a l etter to the  City  Pla nning De partment r equesting the  pr otest p etition pr eviously
submitted by members of the neighborhood be reconsidered to not be a fa ctor affiliated with the
re-zoning or dinance du e to d evelopment p lan c hanges.  Ms. Arnett s tated h er c oncerns w ith
potentially having to re-acquire names on a new protest petition.  Susana Montana, Development
office, clarified the or dinance will re-zone nine lots from L R to MR  and does not c ondition
anything on the final plat, and Casey Palma, Steil Surveying Services, agent for the applicant,
stated D evelopment s taff had  advised h im a  c hange to t he or dinance c ould b e su bmitted to
provide that it be c onditioned upon the final plat.  Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, clarified that the
ordinance wa s b efore Cou ncil o n s econd r eading, a nd no t th ird a nd fi nal, a nd a  sim ple
affirmative majority vote would move the ordinance forward to final reading.  Upon inquiry, Mr.
Palma discussed a conditional zone change that could be affiliated with approval of the final plat
and possible wording  that could be include d on the plat.  Mr. Roy bal moved  to approve on
second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  D iscussion included potential assurances that could
be provided to the neig hborhood involving development plans; plat notes; conditional re- zoning
ordinance; property owner/developer rights; contiguity and zone classifications; consideration of
zoning ordinanc es sepa rate from fina l plats; drainag e; cove nants, and obstruc tions in t he
floodway.  D uring discussion information was provided by Ms. Montana, Mr. Hafner and Ms.
Hackl, w ho r esponded to  in quiry r egarding c ovenants, n oting c ovenants c an n ot b e e nforced
through governmental action as it is a civil action.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor voting “no”.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – De fining the terms and c onditions of employ ment fornd
non-uniformed e mployees o f t he City  of  Che yenne fo r F iscal Y ear 2017- 2018.  M r. Whit e
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-
- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – De fining the terms and c onditions of employment fornd
sworn officers of  the  Che yenne Pol ice De partment f or F iscal Y ear 2 017-2018.  M r. Whit e
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -
- all members of the governing body.
Following a brief recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 8:55 p.m.
ORDINANCE –  2  READI NG – Re pealing Cha pter 5 .12, Al coholic B everages, in i tsnd
entirety and cr eating a new Chapter 5.12, Alc oholic L iquor and Malt B everages, of Title 5,
Business Licenses and Regulations, of the code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Chief Brian
Kozak, Police Department, provided informa tion on meetings a nd discussions with local liquor
licensees on over se rvice issues and t he ordinance section proposing  implementation of
administrative fe es, noting  that a propose d substitut e ordina nce wi ll be submitted for
consideration a t th e ne xt F inance Com mittee to amend ordinance wo rding ba sed u pon h is
discussions wi th t he liq uor d ealers.  Co mmenting on  the  or dinance we re:  K evin Ge orges,
Laramie County Beverage Association; Kevin Beers, Cadillac Ranch Bar; Georgia Broyles; John
Lambousis and Bob L anghoff, Tw o Ba r B owl.  Topics discussed include d: Amending  the
ordinance pursua nt to concer ns expressed by  loca l liquor dea lers; license e and pe rmittee
accountability; enforcement and interpretation concerns; underage drinking and state law change
that will remove the dispensin g room requirement for c ertain license ty pes, and pr oviding a n
exemption to allow persons under the age of 21 years to be allowed in bowling alley businesses.
Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. White moved to
amend the last line in Section 5.12.140 (A) (1) (a), on page 12, to instead read “his or her parent,
spouse or leg al guardian who is at least twenty -one (21) years of ag e”, seconded by Mr. Cook.
Motion to amend car ried.  Voting “ yes” -  all members of  the g overning body .  Discussion
followed o n p reparation o f a  s ubstitute i n t ime f or t he n ext Fi nance C ommittee m eeting;
ordinance sec tions of conce rn to liquor deale rs, an d ordinance being  too restrictive.  Motion
carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body with the exc eption of Mr. Johnson
and Mr. Roybal voting “no”.
ORDINANCE –  1  READING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Z oning Ma p A mendments,st
Section 5.1.2 Z oning Districts Established, and Sec tion 5.1.3 Official Z oning Ma p, of the
Unified D evelopment C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom MR  Me dium-Density
Residential and P Public to NR-3 Neig hborhood Residential – Hig h Dens ity and P  Public for
Lots 1-20, Bloc k 1 and L ots 1-18, Bloc k 2 of Eher nberger Subdivision and a portion of F rank
Court (Res. No. 5732), Sunny side Addition 7th Filing, to be vac ated, being located in a por tion
of the SW¼, NE¼, of Section 27, Township 14 N, Range 66 W of the 6th Principal Meridian in
Cheyenne, Wyoming ( located a t the northea st co rner of the interse ction of Colleg e Dr ive and
Rock Springs Street) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE –  1  REA DING – Pu rsuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1, Z oning M ap A mendment,st
Section 5.1.2, Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Off icial Z oning Map, of  the
Cheyenne U nified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoning c lassification fr om L I-Light
Industrial to MUR—Mixed Use Residential Emphasis for a parcel of land situated at the South
48 feet of L ot 1, Block 285, O riginal City, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as 1920 D illon
Avenue (located on the west side of Dillon Avenue between 19th and 20th Streets) – referred to
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READI NG – Amending  the City  of Chey enne’s Soli d Waste Fe est
Schedule – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
RESOLUTION –  A pproving th e b udget o f th e Ch eyenne D owntown D evelopment
Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2018.  M r. W hite
moved to adopt, sec onded by Mr. Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, advised
if the resolution is postponed it would be back for consideration at the June 26, 2017 meeting,
and postponement would allow time to review what components could be amended as related to
the budget ordinance approved earlier in the mee ting which reduced block grant funding to the
DDA in the a mount of $60,000.0 0.  Mr. Shanor moved to postpone to June 26, 2017, seconde d
by Mr. L aybourn.  Motion to postpone carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the governing
body.
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to s ign a Final Plat for Saddle
Ridge, 12  Filing, a replat of Lots 2-37, Block 1; Lots 1-26, Block 2; Lots 1-8, Block 3; Lots 2-th
15; Block 4; Lots 1-12, Block 5; and L ots 1-11, Block 6 of Saddle Ridg e, 8  Filing, Cheyenne,th
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the junction of Wilderness and Red Feather Trails,
north of E. Pershing Boulevard.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5856)
RESOLUTION – Adopting  an ame ndment to the land use c ategories under  Urban
Residential Zone Districts in Pl anCheyenne, the master plan f or the City  of Chey enne and the
comprehensive plan f or portions of Laramie County.  Mr. Roy bal moved to adopt, sec onded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5857)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an applica tion to the W yoming Department
of Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation program grant to provide the local
match for operating funds for the City  of Chey enne for its transit prog ram, as authorized by 49
U.S.C. §5311.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5858)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Appr oving outside use r water and sanitary sewer services, by outside
user’s agreement, with Cooley  Construction, LLC, Lot 15, Block 16, N orth Cheyenne, Second
Filing, ac cording to t he of ficial pl at f or re cord in  L aramie Cou nty, Wy oming – r eferred to
Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Laybourn)
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd Cheyenne F rontier
Days, I nc., for  the use of City -owned land and building s for  parking, camping , and other
activities during the 2017 Chey enne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion  (per Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#6669)
[CA] Memorandum of Under standing betwee n Chey enne F rontier Da ys, I nc., the City  of
Cheyenne and Laramie County School District Number One, for buses owned by the L aramie
County School District Number One to be used and opera ted for public tr ansportation services
during the 2017 Chey enne F rontier Da ys cele bration. Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) car ried.
(#6670)
[CA] Agreement b etween the Ci ty of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses
owned by the Laramie County School District Number One to b e used and operated for public
transportation service s during the 2017 Chey enne F rontier Da ys cele bration.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6671)
[CA] Agreement between the City  of Chey enne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for United
States Department of the Air Force owned land located at F.E. Warren Air Force Base to be used
and oper ated a s a par king lot for  public transportation servic es during  the 2017 Chey enne
Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6672)
[CA] Agreement b etween th e City  of  Che yenne a nd the  Che yenne Competitive B aseball
Association d/ b/a C heyenne Mu stangs Bas eball f or t he p urpose of s ponsoring th e C ABA
(Continental A mateur B aseball A ssociation) 18 U 2 017 Wo od B at W orld Ser ies to  be  he ld i n
Cheyenne August 4-12, 2017.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6673)
[CA] Agreement and related wa rranty deed be tween the  City  of Chey enne a nd Chey enne,
Light, F uel &  Power Company  d/b/a Bla ck Hills E nergy for the pipe line ease ment along  the
proposed Chica go Bur lington &  Quincy railroa d trail in JL Ranch Subdivision, and affiliated
acquisition of prope rty by the City  (Gre enway Right-of -Way).  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#6674).
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for the
use of the Cheyenne Civic Cente r for the youth e ducation concerts – referred to Financ e
Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for the
use of the Che yenne Civic Center for the 2017- 2018 conce rt season – r eferred to Financ e
Committee.
[C A] Real Estate Purchase Agreement between Manuel M. Sena and the City of Cheyenne for
the City’s purchase of real property located at 2327 Westland Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be
used for public purposes – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of  Under standing betwee n the City  of Chey enne, T ransit Division, and
Laramie Cou nty, Wy oming, to  pr ovide pu blic tr ansportation s ervices to  L aramie Cou nty
Community Col lege a nd fo r a n a rea of L aramie Cou nty imm ediately a djacent t o th e City
(Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract bet ween th e City  of  Che yenne, Y outh A lternatives a nd L aramie Cou nty
Community P artnership, I nc., fo r a cademic a nd en richment ac tivities fo r a t-risk s chool-age
youth at Johnson Junior High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Eig htst
grant funds) – referred t o Finance Committee.
Consideration of B id #S-12-17 for a contra ct between the City  of Chey enne, Facilities
Maintenance Division, and Amer i-Tech HVAC Services, Inc., of Cheyenne, for mechanical and
HVAC systems maintenance for 14 City Buildings Project.  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public
Works, advised bids were received from Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, Inc. and Long Building
Technologies, and explained bid require ments and irre gularities incurr ed by  both b idders
affiliated with the bidding pr ocess involving a bid being submitted to an incor rect location and
residency information.  She not ed that City attorney staff de termined that both compa nies are
considered to be resident businesses and that Ameri-Tech HVAC Services’ bid was the lowest
bid.  Bria n Dubois, L ong Building  Tec hnologies, provided an ove rview of  the company  and
services it could provide; expressed his belief that it would be unfair to award the bid to Ameri-
Tech, and provide d information on his company ’s bid and proc ess followed f or submitting the
bid.  During his comments, Mr. Dubois submitted a copy of a page from the City’s bid document
affiliated with proof of residency if a bidder was a Wyoming resident bidder (on file with City
Clerk’s office).  Jim Brown, Ameri-Tech HVAC Services, Inc., discussed elements of the City’s
bid document, the bidding process, and information submitted with his company’s proposal. Mr.
White moved to ac cept the bid f rom Ameri- Tech HVAC Service s, I nc. in  the amount of
$261,000.00, seconde d by  Mr. J ohnson.  Upon inquiry , Mr. B rown a dvised they  have been
awarded c ontracts t o p rovide the se se rvices f or ma ny y ears, n oting the City  g oes o ut t o b id
approximately every two to three y ears, and Sara  Vasq uez, Purchasing Manager, verified  that
bids f or a  c ontract a re re quested e very tw o y ears wi th n otices se nt t o n umerous bid ders in
addition to advertising, and that Ameri-Tech has been the sole bidder in recent years.  Discussion
included the City ’s bid proce ss and proc edures; reviewi ng practices utilized by  other
municipalities in the region; reviewing bids for best quality and performance and not necessarily
based upon the  lowest bid; fiscal saving s to the City  by  acc epting th e lowest bid, and re -
evaluating the RF P document for f uture bids.  Upon  inquiry during discussion, Ms. Nemece k
stated that the bid is fairly  standard f or HVA C service s; advised that the RFP (Reque st for
Proposals) is updated e very two years with information pertaining  to the fac ilities involved, and
indicated many upgrades to HVAC systems have been made over the years to i mprove facility
efficiencies.  Mr. Dubois provided information on why Long Building Technologies h asn’t
submitted a bid in the past, and differences they have noticed in RFP’s outside of the City which
are more performance based and not based on lowest price.  U pon inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, City
Attorney, explained that state statutes require approval of the lowest responsive bidder for public
works projects but it’s unclear what constitutes “public works”.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” --
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. L aybourn, Mr. Shanor a nd Mayor
Orr voting “no”. (#6675)
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-25-17 for furnishing 70 new computers and operating systems
for the City of Cheyenne (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6305 between the City of C heyenne and RBC
Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc. for City financial asset investment professional services –
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract M odification # 1 to  Co ntract N o. 6 622 b etween th e Ci ty o f Ch eyenne a nd
Reiman Co rporation a nd Con tract N o. 6626 be tween th e City  of  Che yenne a nd Was te
Management of  Col orado, I nc.  f or the  pu rpose of  re -allocating fu nds d ue to u nforeseen s ite
conditions involvi ng the excavation and disposal of waste soil for the Pumphouse Wetlands
Project (1% Specific Sales and Use Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
Appointment of Jason Bogstie to the Historic Preservation Board.  Mr. Roybal moved to
approve, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (Mayoral appointee).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to b e held June 26, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Ch ambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a retail l iquor license
transfer o f o wnership a pplication filed with t he City  Cle rk’s Of fice fo r M averik, I nc. d /b/a
Maverik, Inc. #426, 140 Gardenia  Drive, Chey enne, Wy oming ( License curr ently held by
Lambousis Revocable Trust, d/b/a The Mayflower, 112 West 17th Street, Cheyenne, WY).
Announcement was made that two Calcuttas, benefitting Cheyenne area charities, will be
held a s follows: Monday, July 17, 2017 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in the Cowboy Bistro, located
beside the Rodeo Committee Cabin at Frontier Park, in conjunction with the 2017 Rodeo event,
and Saturday, July 29, 2017 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in th e Headquarters tent locate d in front
of the  Ol d We st M useum, 4 601 N orth C arey Av enue, F rontier P ark, Ch eyenne, Wyoming, in
conjunction with the 2017 C hampion Bull Riding ( CBR) event (10% of pr oceeds to bona fide
charities).
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Sam Galeotos and Judith Myers to
the D owntown D evelopment A uthority B oard; T erence M ichael R oker t o t he P ublic T ransit
Advisory Board; Barry Sims and Tony O’Brien to the Tour ism Promotion Joint Powers Boa rd
(Visit Cheyenne Board) to be confirmed June 26, 2017.
Announcement was made of the Appointments of John  Edwards to the Board of Public
Utilities; Paula Scott to the Communi ty Action of Laramie County -Executive B oard; Steve
Borin and J onathan Save lle to the Downtown Development Authority  Boa rd; L isa Smit h, G.
Michael Hager and Justin Zeman, to the Mayor’s Council for People  with Disabiliti es; Barbara
Fecht, Jennifer Lundberg and Jordan Evans, to the Public Transit Advisory Board; D omenic
Bravo to the Tourism Promotion J oint Powers Boa rd (Visit Cheyenne Board) to the c onfirmed
June 26, 2017.
Upon inquiry  under ot her business, May or Orr  advised staf f will be working  on the
FEMA e xtension request f or the  Civ ic Ce nter C ommons Pr oject, a nd Ca rol I ntlekofer, City
Clerk, clarified that procedurally one motion is made for the approval of proposed appointees to
serve on boards a nd committees and that Council member s have the  opportunity to divide the
question, which allows for a separate vote on each appointee if they so choose.
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was
officially adjourned at 10:58 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
June 26, 2017