MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-06-26 | CLIP_ID: 607 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 607

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
June 26, 2017
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were:  MAYOR – Mar ian J . Orr;
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky  Case, B ryan Cook, Richard Johns on, Pete L aybourn, Mike
Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott R oybal and Jeff White. Absent: Dicky Shanor. Also present: Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  ( All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [C A] are considered to
be routine it ems b y th e governing b ody a nd w ill b e e nacted b y o ne mo tion. T here w ill b e no
separate discussion on these items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.).  Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to
support received by Mr. J ohnson and Mr. Cook, Items #24 (a) and (b) we re removed from the
Consent A genda.  Re maining Con sent A genda item s were a pproved.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll
members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 12, 2017.   Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell
Chevrolet) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as
presented, sec onded by  Mr. J ohnson.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “yes” --  all members of  the
governing body present in Council C hambers with the e xception of Mr . J ohnson voting “ no”.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Or r o pened a Public He aring fo r a  re tail l iquor lic ense tr ansfer o f o wnership
application filed w ith the Cit y Clerk’s Of fice for Ma verik, Inc. d /b/a Maverik, I nc. #426, 140
Gardenia Dr ive, Cheyenne, Wy oming (L icense c urrently he ld b y L ambousis R evocable Tr ust,
d/b/a The Mayflower, 112 West 17th S treet, Chey enne, WY).  Suzie Gudenka uf, Outlaw
Liquors; Georgia Broyles and Kevin Georges spoke in opposition of the trans fer, citing concerns
with a conve nience store pac kage liquor en vironment, exposure of alc ohol products to y outh,
previous governing bo dy a pproval of  a  re tail l iquor lic ense fo r S am’s Cl ub, c ompetition wi th
other licensees in the vicinity, Maverick’s in-store alcohol product signage and approving retail
licenses for businesses t hat will generate a big  source of re venue and jobs.  Tom W elch, Board
Chairman, Ma verik, I nc., su bmitted a  ha ndout c ontaining inf ormation o n M averik’s b usiness
operations (on file with City  Clerk’s office) and discussed Ma verik stores in the western region,
employee an d s tore inv estment a nd re venue sta tistics, Che yenne c ommunity c ontributions,
proposed f ootprint for the pa ckage store, ne ighborhood survey  results of a poll the store
conducted in support of its application, and employ ee alcohol training  and y outh preve ntion
programs.  Also spe aking in favor of the application were Jennifer Tollefson, Regional Director,
and David Hancock, Vice-President, Maverick, Inc. , who re viewed Maverick’s comprehensive
employee alcohol training program and precautionary identification and se curity measur es that
will be in place in the store .  Chuck West, speaking  on behalf  of the current licensee, reviewed
recently revised state statutes related to liquor licenses a nd putting “parked” licenses into ac tive
use.  John L ambousis, current licensee, spoke in support of the transf er; provided an extensive
history of  the  liq uor l icense he  ho lds a nd refere nced p revious a ttempts to  tr ansfer t he lic ense
which we re not a pproved by  City  Council.  There  being  no further  comments or input and
purpose of the hea ring having been me t, Mayor Orr closed the public he aring and re ferred the
application to Finance Committee.
ORDINANCE –  3  REA DING - P ursuant t o Section 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,rd
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Establishe d, and Section 5.1.3 Official Z oning Ma p, of the
Unified D evelopment C ode, c hanging t he z oning c lassification f rom L R L ow-density
Residential and P Public to MR  Medium-density Residential and P Public for all of B lock 4
(Lots 1 thru 9  in clusive), a nd th ose a djacent a lley r ights-of-way, Sp ring V alley A ddition,
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast cor ner of the intersection of Townsend Place  and
Marjon Court).  Seth L loyd, Deve lopment office , ex plained staff r eceived a letter  from the
applicant on June 16, 2017 requesting a portion of the zone change area be withdrawn.  He stated
the applica nt is no longer requesting the MR zone and is now asking for the P Public zone f or
properties to be owned by the City.  Mr. Lloyd advised staff recommends denial of the modified
zone c hange re quest, re viewing re asons fo r t he staff’s re commendation, a nd no ted if  City
Council wishes to approved the  revised zone change request, an a mendment would nee d to be
approved to revise the ordinance and map.  He  further explained the protest petition previously
filed by residents in the a rea is in effect  and the requested revised zone chang e does not a ffect
the v alidity o f t he p etition.  C asey P alma, S teil S urveying S ervices, a gent f or t he a pplicant,
provided information on the purpose of the initial vs. revise d zone change request, noting plans
have c hanged for  the deve lopment pr oject.  Leslie Arne tt commented on positive
communications and concessions by the prope rty owner /applicant with the neig hborhood, and
voiced s upport fo r t he re vised z one ch ange a nd a ffiliated f inal pl at.  R eporting fo r P ublic
Services Commi ttee, Mr. Roy bal stated ther e wa s no rec ommendation on the item from the
Committee.  The re be ing no motion made to a pprove, the  ordinance died on third and fina l
reading.
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – De fining the terms an d conditions of employ ment forrd
non-uniformed emp loyees of the City  of Chey enne for Fiscal Year 2017-2018.  Reporting  for
Finance Comm ittee, Mr. Luna moved to appr ove on third and f inal reading, seconded by Mr.
Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”-- all members of the governing body present. (#4184)
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – De fining the terms and c onditions of employ ment forrd
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2017-2018.  Mr. Luna moved
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -
- all members of the governing body present. (#4185)
ORDINANCE –  3  REA DING – Re pealing Cha pter 5 .12, Al coholic B everages, in i tsrd
entirety and cr eating a new  C hapter 5.12, Alcoholic L iquor and Malt B everages, of Title 5,
Business Licenses a nd Re gulations, of t he c ode of  the  City of  Che yenne, Wyoming.  Ca ptain
Nathan Buseck, Cheyenne Police Department, noted he and Chief Brian Kozak had recently met
and wo rked w ith Wyoming Liquor Di vision, Wyoming Sta te Liquor As sociation a nd Laramie
County Be verage Associa tion repres entatives and support involving  proposed c hanges [by
substitute ordinance] to the initial ordinance had been reached.  Mike Moser, Executive Director,
Wyoming State Liquor Association, advised he had no official position on the ordinance but was
involved in the co-a uthoring of state leg islative bills t hat were approved at the la st l egislative
session, indicating the leg islature’s intent wa s to simpl ify liquor laws and ke ep up with similar
practices in neig hboring states.  Speaking  in support of the prop osed substitute ordinance were:
Chris B rown, E xecutive Di rector, Wy oming L odging a nd Re staurant A ssociation, a nd Ke vin
Georges, Laramie County Beverage Association.  Topics discussed included positive chang es
due to less re strictive dispensing room requir ements; changes providing be tter customer service
and dining experiences, and appreciation for meetings with the police chief and staff.  G eorgia
Broyles discussed alc ohol over-se rvice and ca lls for servic e by  law enf orcement.  Mr. L una
moved to a pprove on  thi rd a nd fi nal r eading, s econded b y Mr . Wh ite.  M r. L una mov ed to
amend by substitute ordinance as recommended by City staff d ated June 16, 2017, seconde d by
Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry  by Michael Langhoff, Two Bar Bowl, Carol I ntlekofer, City Clerk,
advised t he p roposed s ubstitute i ncludes an  ex emption to the p ersons u nder 2 1 y ears o f a ge
restriction for businesses whose primary purpose of  the business opera tion within t he licensed
building is o peration a s a  bo wling c enter b usiness a nd c ommercially provided f ood s ervices.
Discussion followed on the substitute ordinance .  Upon inquiry , Captain Buse ck explained that
language changes relating to e xcessively intoxicated and over-service were taken directly from
the TI PS t raining manual and pr ovided informa tion on enforc ement and c itation process for
violations, and Mr. Geor ges advised tha t invitation to meet with the police c hief on ordina nce
concerns was issued to members of the County  Beverage Association.  Ms. I ntlekofer provided
information on the ordina nce se ctions ref erencing the re striction on “delivery service ” of
alcoholic liquor and malt beverages.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  M ain
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#4186)
ORDINANCE –  2  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,nd
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Off icial Z oning Ma p, of the
Unified D evelopment C ode, c hanging the  zon ing classification f rom MR  Me dium-Density
Residential and P Public to NR-3 Neig hborhood Residential – Hig h Density and P Public for
Lots 1-20, Block 1 and Lots 1-18, Block 2 of Ehernberger Subdivision and a portion of F rank
Court (Res. No. 5732), Sunny side Addition 7th Filing, to be va cated, being l ocated in a portion
of the SW¼, NE¼, of Section 27, Township 14 N, Range 66 W of the 6th Principal Meridian in
Cheyenne, Wyoming ( located a t the northea st corner  of the intersect ion of Colleg e Dr ive and
Rock Springs Street).  Mr. Roy bal moved appr ove on sec ond reading, seconded by Mr. L una.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – Pu rsuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment,nd
Section 5.1.2, Z oning D istricts Established, and Sec tion 5.1.3, Official Z oning Ma p, of  the
Cheyenne U nified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from L I-Light
Industrial to MUR—Mixed Use Residential Emphasis for a parcel of land situated at the South
48 feet of L ot 1, Block 285, O riginal City, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be know n as 1920 Dillon
Avenue (located on the west side of Dillon Avenue bet ween 19th and 20th Streets).  Mr . Roybal
moved approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE – 2  READI NG – Amending the City of Chey enne’s Soli d Waste Fe end
Schedule.  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, pr ovided detailed information on the history
of the City’s solid waste and landfill operations, expansions and disposal practices; solid waste
rate study conducted in 2013, and ra tionale for the  proposed r ate increases.  B arbie Harrington;
Julie Gliehm, Wyoming Landlords Association; Edward Melko, Rick Fierro, Ram Trucking, and
Brad Harrington spoke in oppo sition of the proposed rate increases.  Topics discussed included:
Potential closures of some Wyoming landfills; waste disposal rates in rental units and diff erence
in r ates c ompared to  oth er Wy oming mun icipalities; s anitation c ollection p ractices; r ate
structuring; e ffect of  inc reases o n in dividuals wi th limited b udgets; pu rchase of  the  B elvoir
Ranch by the City for landfill purposes; landfill account; landfill cap and closure costs; landfill
DEQ permit ting; c oncerns w ith r e-introducing th e o rdinance a fter it  p reviously f ailed, a nd
protecting pe ople’s rig hts.  Mr. L una moved to appr ove on  second reading, se conded by Mr.
Roybal.  Discussion included:  DEQ requirements; waste management operations by the private
sector; lan dfill s cenarios r elative to  p rivatization; c onsequences o f n ot i ncreasing r ates, a nd
history of ra te increases.  Upon inqui ry, Mr. Fie rro expressed his opinion on negotiable  annual
contracts; operational inefficiencies; competition with private business and solid waste a s a fuel
source.  Request was made that Ms. Nemecek provide information for the next F inance
Committee meeting regarding consequences of not increasing rates and affiliated landfill costs,
landlord ra tes, roll-off  service  expenses, and amount of re venue r eturned to the g eneral fund.
Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek provided rate increase history since 2002.  Motion car ried.  Voting
“yes” - - all member s of the governing body prese nt with the exception of Mr. Cook and Mr.
Luna voting “no”.
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – Creating Section 10.24.180, Nuisance exhibition motorst
vehicle exhaust-prohibited, of Chapter 10.24, Rules of the Roa d Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles
and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Publi c S ervices
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case)
RESOLUTION – Appr oving the  bu dget of the Chey enne D owntown Deve lopment
Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2018 (postponed fr om
June 12, 2017).  Desiree Brothe, Interim Director, Downtown Development Authority, expressed
appreciation for the City’s funding portion and spoke in support of the resolution.  Mr. L una
moved to adopt, sec onded by  Mr. J ohnson.  Discussion followed on the role  of DDA  and
downtown revitalization efforts.  Mr. L una moved to ame nd by substitute resolution dated J une
19, 2 017, seconded by  Dr. Rinne.  I t was noted the pr oposed substitute refle cts monetary
changes to the DDA budget due to approval of the City’s budget ordinance.  Motion to a mend
carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present.  Main motion as amende d
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5859)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Appr oving outside use r water and sani tary sewer services, by outside
user’s agreement, with Cooley  Construction, L LC, Lot 15, Block 16, N orth Cheyenne, Second
Filing, acc ording to the officia l plat for re cord in L aramie County , Wy oming.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5860)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the  May or and the  Cit y Clerk to sign a F inal Plat for
Arroyo Subdivision, a re plat of all of B lock 4 (Lots 1 thru 9 inclusive) and those a djacent alley
rights-of-way, Spring Valley Addition, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at
the so utheast c orner o f the int ersection o f T ownsend Pla ce a nd Ma rjon Cou rt) –  re ferred to
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for North
College Subdivis ion, a re plat of L ots 1-20, Bloc k 1 and Lots 1-18, B lock 2 of Ehe rnberger
Subdivision and a por tion of Frank Court (Res. No. 57 32), Sunnyside Addition 7th Filing, to be
vacated, being located in a portion of the SW¼, NE¼, o f Section 27, Township 14 N, Rang e 66
W of the 6th Principal Meridian in Chey enne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the
intersection of College Drive and Rock Springs Street) – referred to Public Services Comm ittee.
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §§ 16-4-112 and 16-4-113 – referred to Finance Committee.
(Sponsor - Mr. Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION – A uthorizing t he fili ng of  a pplications wi th t he F ederal T ransit
Administration, an ope rating administration of the United States De partment of T ransportation,
for Federal Transportation assistance authorized by Title 49, United States Code, Section 5307 –
referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City  of Chey enne’s application for  Transpor tation
Alternatives Program ( TAP) fu nds f or c onstruction o f t he Wes t A llison Sc hool C rosswalk
Project – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION – De signating loca l historian Will iam “B ill” Dubois as the City  of
Cheyenne’s officia l historian laurea te in conjunction wi th community activities during  2017
celebrating the City’s 150  Anniversary – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr.th
White)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for the
use of the Cheyenne Civic Center for the youth education concerts.  Lindsey Rey nolds,
Executive Director, Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra, stated that funding fr om the contra ct helps
with the youth education concerts program, and provided information on the prog ram and fund-
raising eff orts and g rant a pplications to supplement costs.  Mr. L una moved to appr ove,
seconded by Mr. Roy bal.  Upon in quiry, Ms. Rey nolds explained elements of the prog ram and
affiliated costs, and funding sources.  Comment was made regarding consideration of funding for
other cultural organizations in t he community.  Motion carr ied.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#6677)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for the
use of  the  Che yenne Civic Cent er f or the  20 17-2018 c oncert se ason. L indsey Re ynolds,
Executive Director, Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra, noted the contract is for rental of the Civic
Center for Symphony concerts and stated the total amount to be paid by the Symphony under the
contract would be $17,500.00.  Mr. L una moved to appr ove, sec onded by Mr. J ohnson.
Comment w as ma de on  the  c ost of  re nting the  Civic Ce nter f acility to d ifferent u ser g roups.
Motion carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the g overning body present with the exception
of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#6678)
[C A] Real Estate Purchase Agreement between Manuel M. Sena and the City of Cheyenne for
the City’s purchase of real property located at 2327 Westland Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be
used for public purposes.  Motion (per  Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount of $115,000.00).
(#6679)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and
Laramie Cou nty, Wy oming, to  pr ovide pu blic tr ansportation s ervices to  L aramie Cou nty
Community Col lege a nd fo r a n a rea of  L aramie Cou nty imm ediately a djacent to th e City
(Revenue to Cit y).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried (r evenue to the City  $77,500.00).
(#6680)
[CA] Contract be tween the City of  Che yenne, Y outh A lternatives a nd L aramie Cou nty
Community P artnership, I nc., fo r a cademic a nd en richment ac tivities fo r a t-risk s chool-age
youth at J ohnson Junior High School (21  Century Community Learning Centers Cohort Eig htst
grant funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City $102,139.00). (#6681)
[CA] Agreement between  the City of Cheyenne and the Diocese of Cheyenne to sell a nd
purchase re al prope rty located a t 2020-2022 Capitol Avenue, Chey enne, Wy oming, a nd
described as all of Lots 1 and 2, Block 266, Original City, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County,
Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Professional S ervices Ag reement betwee n the Chey enne Me tropolitan Planning
Organization and Ay res Assoc iates for  the Chey enne F rontier Day s Traf fic Study  and
Transportation Plan – referred to Finance Committee.  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-25-17 for furnishing 70 new computers and operating systems
for the City  of Chey enne ( 2015-2018 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried
(approve bid  su bmitted by  CD W Go vernment, L LC, V ernon Hi lls, I L, in  a n a mount n ot t o
exceed $39,830.00).
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6305 between the City of C heyenne and RBC
Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc. for City financial asset investment professional services.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6305)
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6622 be tween the  City  of Chey enne a nd
Reiman Co rporation a nd Con tract N o. 66 26 be tween the City of  Che yenne a nd Was te
Management o f C olorado, I nc. f or the  pu rpose of  re -allocating fu nds due to unf oreseen s ite
conditions involvi ng the excavation and disposal of  waste soil for the  P umphouse Wetlands
Project (1% Specific Sales and Use T ax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (in the a mount
of $80,000). (#6622, #6626)
Following a brief recess for the purpose of holding a special Finance Committee meeting
on the following item, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 9:13 p.m.
Contract Modification #2 to Contract No. 6655 be tween the  City  of Chey enne a nd
DAPCPA Pop e & J ackson, I nc. f or the  pu rpose of  e xtending the  te rm of  the  No n-Attest
Consulting Services Agreement providing accounting services to the City of Cheyenne, through
September 3 0, 20 17, a nd pr oviding fo r a  c ap o n th e a mount o f c ompensation –  re ferred to
Finance Committee.  [Note: due to the necessity of having final Council action on this item prior
to June 30, 2017 ther e will be a spe cial meeting of the Fina nce Committee he ld June 26, 2017,
during a recess of the regular Council meeting.]  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised that due to
the special Finance Committee meeting that was he ld in conjunction with the item, it would be
the next it em bef ore the  g overning body .  Reporting  on rec ommendation from the spe cial
Finance Committee meeting, Mr. Luna moved approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Upon inquiry,
David Pope, DAPCPA Pope & Jacks on, Inc., provided information on contra ct services, which
includes ce rtain ser vices by  McGe e, He arne and Paiz, and auditing pr actices.  Discussion
included term extension of the contract, services provided, contract fee and auditing information.
Mayor Orr  clar ified that whe n a new  City  Trea surer is hired and Mr. Pope’ s services a re no
longer nee ded, pay ments will c ease, which c ould be bef ore the  extended contra ct term of
September 30, 2017.  Motion ca rried.  V oting “ yes” - - all m embers of  the g overning body
present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.
Re-Appointments of Sam G aleotos and Judith My ers to the  Downtown De velopment
Authority Board; Terence Michael Roker to the Public Transit Advisory  Board; Barry Sims and
Tony O’B rien to the Tour ism P romotion J oint Powers Boa rd (Visit Chey enne B oard).  Mr.
Roybal  mo ved to approve, seconded b y Dr . Ri nne.  M otion c arried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll
members of  the g overning body  prese nt with the exception of Mr. J ohnson voting “n o” and
Mayor Orr who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
Appointments of J ohn Edwar ds to the Boa rd of Public Utilities; P aula Scott to the
Community Action of Laramie Cou nty-Executive Board; Ste ve Borin a nd Jona than Sa velle to
the Downtown Development Authority Board; Lisa Smith, G. Michael Hager and Justin Zeman,
to the May or’s Council for People  with Disabiliti es; Barbara Fecht, J ennifer L undberg and
Jordan Evans, to the Pub lic Transit Advisory Board; Domenic Bravo to the Tour ism Promotion
Joint Powers Boa rd (Visit C heyenne B oard).  Mr. L una moved to appr ove, sec onded by  Mr.
White.  Voting  “yes” -- all members of the g overning body present with the exception of Mr.
Johnson voting “no” and Mayor Orr who did not vote (Mayoral appointees).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to b e held July 10, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue , Chey enne, Wy oming, to dete rmine whe ther
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exists for the west
421.77’ of Tract 1, Lincoln Valley Tracts, being situated in a portion of the N W ¼ of Section 36
Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the Six th Principal Meridian, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located southeast of the intersection of Whitney Road and East Pershing Boulevard).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to b e held July 10, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue , Chey enne, Wy oming, to dete rmine whe ther
compliance of anne xation conditions required by  Wyoming Statute §15-1- 402 exis ts for all of
Lot 1, Block 1,  Taxidermy Addition and the north 305.23’ e xcept north 150’ of Tract 14, Sunny
Side Additi on and the north 50’ of  the south 300’ of the w est 91’ of Tr act 14, Sunny  Side
Addition; situated in the SW¼ SW¼  of Section 27, T.14N., R.6 6W. of the 6th P.M., Laramie
County, Wy oming ( located nor theast of the interse ction of Ridge  Road and Ea st Pershing
Boulevard).
Announcement was made of the Re-Appointments of Michael Sorenson, Rob Dafoe, Gus
Lopez, Monique Meese  and Carla  Thurin t o the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services
Joint Powers Board, to be confirmed July 10, 2017.
Announcement w as ma de th at d ue to  th e F ourth o f Ju ly H oliday o n T uesday, Ju ly 4,
2017, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held on Wednesday,
July 5, 2017 in the Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming,
as follows: Finance Committee will meet at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet
at Noon.
Under other business:
Mr. White ex pressed appre ciation to  city  staff w ho helped with the a nnual Superda y
event, and, upon inquiry , Mayor Orr advised the F EMA extension request for  theCivic Center
Commons Project had been submitted to the Department of Homeland Security.
Mayor Orr announced tha t Cit y office s will be closed on Jul y 3 and 4, 2017 for  the
Independence Day holiday.
There being  no furthe r business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 9:25 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
July 10, 2017