MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-07-10 | CLIP_ID: 609 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 609

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
July 10, 2017
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were:  MAYOR – Mar ian J . Orr;
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky  Case, B ryan Cook, Richard Johns on, Pete L aybourn, Mike
Luna, Dr . Mark Rinne, Scott Roy bal, Dicky  Shanor and Jeff Whi te. Also pre sent: Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  ( All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [C A] are considered to
be routine it ems b y th e governing b ody a nd w ill b e e nacted b y o ne mo tion. T here w ill b e no
separate discussion on these items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Up on request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to
support rec eived by Mr. White and Mr. Roy bal, I tem #28(a)  was re moved from the Consent
Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. White, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Johnson and Mr.
Roybal, I tem #24 was re moved from the Co nsent Agenda.  Mr . Case moved to appr ove
remaining Consent Ag enda items, sec onded by Mr. Roy bal.  Mr. Shanor r ecused himself from
participation on the item due  to an af filiation with the Transporta tion Alternatives Prog ram
(Consent Agenda Item #23), and va cated Council Chambers.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” --
all members of  the g overning body present in Council C hambers.  Following  announcement of
the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers.
Mr. White moved to suspend the rules to move Agenda Item #24 (Resolution designating
an historian laur eate) to be a cted upon prior to Ag enda Item #6 (Vouc hers), seconded by Mr.
Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
RESOLUTION – De signating loca l historian Wi lliam “Bill” Dubois as the City  of
Cheyenne’s officia l historian laureat e in conjunction with community  activities during  2017
celebrating the City ’s 150  Anniversa ry. Wil liam Dubois expressed his g ratitude for  theth
designation.  Reporting  for Public Service s Commi ttee, Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, sec onded
by Mr. Luna.  Comments were made in recognition of Mr. Dubois’ numerous dedicated services
involving the e ducational pr ofession and c ommunity participa tion, and his  knowledg e of
Cheyenne’s local history.  M otion carried.  V oting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
(#5861)
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Governing Body on J une 26, 2017.   Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell
Collision Center) a nd vaca ted Coun cil Chambers.  Mr. L una moved to appr ove pay ment of
vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. White.  Moti on carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of
the g overning body prese nt in Council C hambers.  Following  anno uncement of the vote, Mr.
Roybal returned to Council Chambers.
Mayor Orr  opened a  public hear ing to de termine whe ther c ompliance of  annexation
conditions require d by  Wy oming Statute §15-1- 402 exis ts for the we st 421.77’ of Tra ct 1,
Lincoln Valley  Trac ts, being situated in a portion of the N W ¼ of Section 36 Township 14
North, Range 66 W est of the Six th Principal Meridian, L aramie County , Wy oming ( located
southeast of the inter section of Whitney  Road and Eas t Pershing Boule vard).  Eric Ha mmer,
Planning and Development Department, provided informa tion on the property requested by the
landowner to be anne xed, and r eviewed require ments of and c ompliance with annexation
conditions contained in state statutes.  There  being no further comments or input and purpose  of
the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the public hearing. 
Mayor Orr  opened a  public hear ing to de termine whe ther c ompliance of  annexation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exists for all of Lot 1, Block 1, Taxidermy
Addition and the north 305.23’ except north 150’ of Tract 14, Sunny Side Addition and the north
50’ of the south 300’ of the we st 91’ of Tra ct 14, Sunny  Side Addition; s ituated in the
SW¼SW¼ of Section 27, T.14N., R.66W. of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located
northeast of the interse ction of Ridge  Road and Ea st Pershing B oulevard). Eric  Hammer ,
Development Department, provided information on the property requested by the landowner to
be annexed, and reviewed requirements of and compliance with annexation conditions contained
in state statutes.  Ther e being no further  comments or input and purpose of  the hea ring having
been met, Mayor Orr closed the public hearing. 
ORDINANCE – 3  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map  Am endments,rd
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Off icial Z oning Map, of the
Unified D evelopment C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom MR  Me dium-Density
Residential and P Public to NR-3 Neig hborhood Residential – Hig h Density and P Public for
Lots 1-20, Bloc k 1 and L ots 1-18, Bloc k 2 of Eher nberger Subdivision and a portion of F rank
Court (Res. No. 5732), Sunny side Addition 7th Filing, to be va cated, being located in a por tion
of the SW¼, NE¼, of Section 27, Township 14 N, Range 66 W of the 6th Principal Meridian in
Cheyenne, Wyoming ( located a t the no rtheast corner  of the interse ction of Colleg e Dr ive and
Rock Springs Street).  Reporting for Public Service s Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to appr ove
on third and final r eading, seconde d by  Mr. L una. Comment was made  on exis ting a djacent
zones relative to the proposed zone change.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. (#4187)
ORDINANCE –  3  R EADING –  P ursuant t o S ection 2 .2.1, Zoning M ap A mendment,rd
Section 5.1.2, Z oning D istricts Established, and Sect ion 5.1.3, Offic ial Z oning Ma p, of  the
Cheyenne U nified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoni ng classification from L I-Light
Industrial to MUR—Mixed Use Residential Emphasis for a parcel of land situated at the South
48 feet of L ot 1, Block 285, O riginal City, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as 1920 D illon
Avenue (located on the west side of Dillon Avenue between 19th and 20th Streets).  Mr. Roybal
moved to approve on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4188)
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – Amending  the City  of Chey enne’s Soli d Waste Fe erd
Schedule.  V icki N emecek, Di rector of  Pub lic Wor ks, p rovided in formation i n r esponse to
questions posed at the June 26th City Council meeting.  Rick Fier ro, RAM Trucking, requested
information on how rol l-off container rates are set and evaluated with Ms. Nemec ek responding
to the inquiry and advising a collection study is currently being conducted relative to operational
costs and ef ficiencies.  She noted study  results would be a vailable for next y ear’s re view of
sanitation rates. Mr. White moved to approve on third a nd final re ading, seconde d by  Mr.
Johnson.  Di scussion included: Fees assessed for roll-offs; landfill space as a commodity; City
vs. p rivate b usinesses p roviding c ustomer r oll-off c ontainers; c ollection s tudy v s r ate s tudy;
annual inter nal ra te re view; customer se rvice; business coll ection container  enclose d pick-up
locations; purpose of proposed rate increases; 5 percent cap of sanitation revenues to the general
fund; incre ased pa yroll costs for e quipment opera tors and long term manag ement of the
community’s solid waste involving la ndfill ex pansion and f uture c losure costs.  Dur ing
discussion Ms. Nemecek provided information in response to inquiries, and noted that cu rrent
rates a re ba sed o n v olume a nd fr equency of  pic k-up, a nd Ma yor Or r n oted th e pr evious ra te
ordinance failed due to a tie vote a nd extensive history  on the topi c has since been provided.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Case, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal,
Mr. White and Mayor Orr.  Voting “no” -- Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor. (#4189) 
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – Creating Section 10.24.180, Nuisance exhibition motornd
vehicle exhaust-prohibited, of Chapter 10.24, Rules of the Roa d Generally, of Title 10, Vehic les
and Traffic, of the Code of the City  of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roy bal moved to approve on
second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Discussion included: State statutes regulating certain
exhaust issues; previously failed ordinance on the topic; appropr iateness of placing the proposed
ordinance in City Code Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic; amount of bond through Municipal Court
for violation citations; health and sa fety concerns involving an individual’s health condition that
may be exace rbated due to ex haust smoke, and option of a ddressing the problem throug h more
concentrated efforts in enforc ing state law.  Chief B rian Kozak, Police De partment, advised he
has spoken with the Municipal Court Senior Judge who is reviewing the current bond amount for
possible increase.  It was confirmed that the Judge has authority to i ncrease the bond without a
change by City ordinance.  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the g overning body
with the exception of Mr. Shanor voting “no”.
ORDINANCE – 1  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the westst
421.77’ of Tract 1, Lincoln Valley Tracts, being situated in a portion of the NW ¼ of Section 36
Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located southeast of the  intersection of Whitney Road and Ea st Pershing Boulevard)  – ref erred
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE –  1  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2.2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,st
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Off icial Zon ing Map, of the
Unified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from AR - Ag ricultural
Residential ( County) to AR Ag ricultural Re sidential f or the  we st 4 21.77’ of  Tr act 1,  L incoln
Valley Trac ts, L aramie County , Wy oming ( located southeast of the inter section of Whitney
Road a nd E ast P ershing B oulevard) –  r eferred to  Pu blic Se rvices Co mmittee. ( Sponsor –  Mr.
Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, all of Lotst
1, Block 1, Taxidermy Addition and the north 305.23’ except north 150’ of Tract 14, Sunny Side
Addition and the north 50’ of the south 300’ of the west 91’ of Tract 14, Sunny Side Addition;
situated in the SW¼SW¼ of Section 27, T.14N., R.66W. of the 6  P.M., Laramie C ounty,th
Wyoming (located northeast of the inter section of Ridg e Road a nd East Pershing  Boulevard) –
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE –  1  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Z oning Ma p Amen dments,st
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Establishe d, and Section 5.1.3 Official Z oning Ma p, of the
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MU – Mixed-Use (County)
to MUB Mixed-Use B usiness Emphasis for all of L ot 1, Block 1, Ta xidermy Addition and the
north 305.23’ except north 150’ of Tract 14, Sunny Side Addition and the north 50’ of the south
300’ of the w est 91’ of Tr act 14, Sunny Side Addition, L aramie County , Wy oming ( located
northeast of the intersection of Ridge Road and East Pers hing Boulevard) – referred to Public
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amen dments,st
Section 5.1.2 Zoning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Off icial Z oning Ma p, of the
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to
LI L ight I ndustrial f or L ots 1,  2,  5,  a nd a  po rtion of  L ot 3 , B lock 1 , So uth Pa rk Es tates, 6th
Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located between Partoyan Drive and Walterscheid Bo ulevard,
north of I-80) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE –  1  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1, Z oning Ma p A mendment,st
Section 5.1.2 , Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Of ficial Z oning Ma p, of the
Cheyenne U nified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zon ing classification from NB
Neighborhood B usiness to NR-3 Neig hborhood Residential Hig h Density  for Lot 1, Block 4,
Storey Boulevard Extension Subdi vision, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Conver se Place
Apartments (located between N. Converse Avenue and Ogden Road, south of Storey Boulevard)
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READI NG - A mending Section 5.52.050 (A) a nd (B ) of Chapte rST
5.52, Massag e Establishments, within Titl e 5, B usiness L icenses an d Regulations, of the
Cheyenne City  Cod e pe rtaining to M assage Th erapists’ lic ensing re quirements - re ferred to
Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Luna)
RESOLUTION – Aut horizing the May or and the  City  Clerk to sign a  Final Plat for
Arroyo Subdivision, a re plat of all of B lock 4 (Lots 1 thru 9 inclusive) and those a djacent alley
rights-of-way, Spring Valley Addition, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at
the southeast cor ner of  the intersec tion of Townsend Place  and Mar jon Co urt).  De b Roden,
Woodhouse Roden Nethercott law firm, attorney representing the applicant, provided an update
on a proposed map revision for 10 lots to be developed and addressing drainage issues, which
includes a spe cific note (i.e. Note  10) which r eflects the intent that th e lots will  be deve loped
under standards of the UDC (Unified Development Code) Section 5.1.5 for DD7-single family
detached residential dwellings.  She noted, if appr oved, the applicant will be see king a variance
through the Board of Adjustment.  Mitch Gerharter inquired as to the next steps procedurally if
the plat is approved , improvements to the drainage area that would be dedicated to the City, and
whether t here wa s a  City  governed timeframe fo r c onstruction o f t he de velopment p roject.
Mayor Orr advised it was not unusual for  open space to be donated to the City  for a project and
that she wa s not awar e of a  deadline f or projec t construction.  Seth L loyd, Pla nning and
Development, explained the next step, if the resolution is approved, is for the applicant to apply
for a variance in lot size with the Boar d of Adjustment.  I f that’s approved, then a n engineering
plan review for drainage improvements will be conducted, and then the building permit process
will follow.  He noted the dr ainage improvements are the  responsibility of the de veloper.  Mr.
Lloyd added that he is also unawa re of  any  City  g overned timelines for construc tion.  Mr.
Roybal moved to adopt, sec onded by Mr. J ohnson.  Mr. Roy bal, seconded by Mr. Case, moved
to amend by revised plat map dated June 22, 2017 and by adding the following language to Note
10: “The lots containe d within this  plat shall be conside red a s developa ble pursuant to the
standards of UDC 5.1.5 DD7-single family detached dwelling/small lot for ten (10) single family
residential units.”  I t was noted the amendment to Note 10 was adde d at the re quest of the
applicant to provide intent to the Board of Adjustment that the governing body was in support of
the development.  Mr. Lloyd stated the revised map provides clarification on some prior issues,
however, staff is not in favor of including  Note #10, either  as initiall y proposed or as a mended,
and staff  is recommending  denial of the  plat as a w hole as the pr oposed lots are  not of a
buildable size within t he cur rent zoning district.  Upon i nquiry, Alessandr a McCoy, Assistant
City Attorney , explained the City  isn’t nece ssarily opposed but the note wording  isn’t
enforceable and sug gested Note  10 lang uage could be  altere d to refle ct the governing  body ’s
intent i nstead of ha ving the  word “ shall” in the wording .  Motion to amend car ried.  Voting
“yes” -- all member s of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook and Mr. Johnson
voting “no”.  Mr. Shanor, seconded by Dr. Rinne, moved to ame nd Note 10 by striking the word
“shall” and inserting the phrase “it is t he intent of the governing body that they” so the sentence
would instead re ad as f ollows: “The lots contained w ithin thi s plat, it is the intent of the
governing body that they be considered as developable pursuant to the standards of UDC 5.1.5
DD7-single fa mily detached swe lling/small lot for ten (10)  single  family  residential units.”
Following discussion, moti on to amend c arried.  Voting “ yes” -- all member s of the g overning
body with the exception of Mr. Johns on v oting “no”.  It was noted the a mendments wer e a
compromise for  the prope rty owner /developer and the ne ighborhood but it places staff  in a
difficult posit ion. Main motion as twice ame nded carried. Voting “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mayor Orr voting “no”. (#5862)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for North
College Subdivision, a replat of  L ots 1-20, Bloc k 1 and L ots 1-18, Bloc k 2 of Eher nberger
Subdivision and a p ortion of Frank Court (Res. No. 5732) , Sunnyside Addition 7th Filing, to be
vacated, being located in a portion of the SW¼, NE¼, of Section 27, Township 14 N, Rang e 66
W of the  6th Principal Meridian in Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of the
intersection of College  Drive a nd Rock Springs S treet).  Mot ion (per Consent Ag enda) carried.
(#5863)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budget of the City of Cheyenne
according to the provisions of W.S . §§ 16-4-112 a nd 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Ag enda)
carried. (#5864)
[CA] RESOLUTION – A uthorizing the  fi ling of  a pplications with the  F ederal T ransit
Administration, an opera ting administration of the U nited States Department of T ransportation,
for Federal Transportation assistance authorized by Title 49, United States Code, Section 5307.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5865)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for T ransportation
Alternatives P rogram ( TAP) f unds f or c onstruction o f t he W est A llison S chool C rosswalk
Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5866)
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the City  Clerk to sign a  County Final Plat
for BT II First Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Tract 13, Allison Tracts, being situated in the
west ½ of Section 8, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6th Principal Meridian, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located east of and adja cent to South Gree ley Highway, south of Fox Far m
Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing r ental r ates for t he use of  the Chey enne Botanic Garden
complex and dedicati ng the funds ra ised to the opera tions and maintenanc e of the  Chey enne
Botanic Gardens complex – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Dr. Rinne)
[CA] Preliminary Plat for South Park Estates 10th Filing, a replat of Lots 1, 2, 5, and a portion
of L ot 3, Blo ck 1, S outh Park Estates, 6th Filing , Chey enne, Wy oming ( located be tween
Partoyan Dr ive and Waltersc heid B oulevard, north of I-80) – ref erred to Public Services
Committee.  
Agreement between  the City of Cheyenne and the Diocese of Cheyenne to sell and
purchase re al prope rty located a t 2020-2022 Capi tol Avenue, Che yenne, Wy oming, a nd
described as all of Lots 1 and 2, Block 266, Original City, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County,
Wyoming.  Vic ki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, explained the ag reement adds additional
wording relative to certain documentation the City will provide the Diocese about the property,
if a vailable. M r. Whit e moved to approve, s econded b y Mr . Joh nson.  U pon in quiry, M s.
Nemecek reviewed the documents which will be provided, and advised sale of the property is “as
is”.  It was noted that “as is” means with the exception of any defects in the title which make the
property unmarketable, and that there are no known defects.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body. (#6682)
Following a brief recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 7:58 p.m.
[CA] Professional Servic es Ag reement between the Chey enne Me tropolitan Planning
Organization and Ay res Assoc iates for  the Chey enne F rontier Da ys Tra ffic S tudy and
Transportation Plan.  Moti on (per Consent Ag enda) carried (amount not to ex ceed $89,474.00).
(#6683)
[CA] Human Servic es Agreement with Safe Ha rbor to provide  a saf e and suppor tive
environment for children in the City of Cheyenne – referred to Finance Committee.
[C A] Human Services Agreement between Cheyenne Housing Authority – referred to Finance
Committee.
[CA] Human Servic es Ag reement with Peak Wellness, I nc. Alcohol Rec eiving Center –
referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Human Services Agreement with United Way  of Laramie County (2015-2018 1%  Sales
Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for
animal control and animal shelter services – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Extension Agreement to the Community Counseling and Intervention Services
Agreement (City Contract No. 6266) between the City of Cheyenne Youth Alternatives Division
and Laramie County School District Number One – referred to Finance Committee.
Consideration of RFP-7-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and A1 Organics
for r esources a nd se rvices o f t he Pub lic Com posting F acility (s olid w aste fu nd) – r eferred to
Finance Committee.  Vicki Ne mecek, Director of Public Works, stated the contra ct provides for
added services for disposal of brush debris from the May snow storm.  Mr. White advised, due to
the recent snow storm event r esulting in excessive branch collection, a need to increase services
was determined and due to timing involving contractor availability, the item was reviewed under
other items for the agenda at the July 5, 2017 Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions
of Title 2 of City  Code had be en met.  Mr. White moved to appr ove, seconded by Mr. L una.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body (#6683).
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-15-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corp., Cheyenne, WY, f or the Kennedy Guardrail R econstruction
Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-14-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Simon Contractors, Chey enne, WY, for  the 2017 City  Chip S eal, #1 Project
(2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration to purchase for the Police Department Motorola APX7500 dual band high
power radios from Wireless Advanced Communications, Evans, CO (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax)
– referred to Finance Committee.
Re-Appointments of Micha el Sorenson, R ob Dafoe, Gus L opez, Monique Meese  and
Carla Thur in to the L aramie C ounty Communi ty J uvenile Servic es Joi nt Powers B oard.  Mr .
Johnson mo ved to  a pprove, s econded b y Mr . L una.  M otion c arried.  Vo ting “y es” -- all
members of  the g overning body with the exception of May or Or r who did not  vote (May oral
appointments).
Retail liquor license transfer of ownership application filed with the  City  Clerk’s Of fice
for Maverik, Inc.  d/b/a Maverik, Inc. #426, 140 Gardenia Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License
currently he ld b y L ambousis Revocable Tr ust, d /b/a Th e Ma yflower, 11 2 We st 1 7th Str eet,
Cheyenne, WY).  Bud dy Tennant spoke in opposition of the license tra nsfer to a conve nience
store environment and submitted a  written letter of protest in support of his comments (on file in
City Clerk’s off ice).  David Ha ncock, Vice President and g eneral counse l, Maverik, I nc.,
provided information on Maverik’ s business opera tions and submitt ed and dis cussed a handout
(on file with City  Clerk’s off ice) which co ntained additional information from the one  that was
submitted at the previous City Council meeting.  He commented in support of t he transfer which
will allow a small packa ge store w ithin the buildi ng, an d incremental sales tax reve nue for
Cheyenne.  Chuc k West, J ohn Lambousis and Steve B orin spoke in  favor of the tr ansfer, citing
recent state statute c hanges involving “pa rked” liquor licenses; history  of the re tail license;
additional sales tax revenue to be  g enerated by having  an ac tive license; a ddressing un derage
drinking concerns; no interest having been expressed by anyone interested in acquiring the
license for use in the downtown area, and previous transfer applications for the license that have
not been a pproved.  K evin Geor ges discussed  the re striction on the number of r etail liquor
licenses available through the City due to the state sta tute population formula; ba sing a decision
on whether to approve the application on what’s best for Cheyenne, and conditions set forth in
Wyo. Stat. Section 12-4-104 (b)(iii) regarding whether approval of the license meets the needs of
the vicinity .  Mr. White moved t o approve, seconded by  Mr. L una.  Upon inquiry , Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised th e lic ense is c urrently in “ parked” sta tus a nd un der t he ne wly
revised statute provisions, the license c ould come bac k to the City  during  the 2018 licensing
renewal process as the timeframe to extend the “pa rked” status has changed, and commented on
the de finition of  “ operational”.  D iscussion in cluded the fo llowing: A ntiquated s tate sta tute
structure regarding liquor licenses; financial value to holders of a retail liquor license; having a
willing seller and willing buyer and free enterprise; whether transfer of the license will increase
sales tax revenue ; whether the ar ea is a lready served by exis ting licensees; status of “ parked”
licenses; no opposition to the transfer received from residents or liquor licensees in the area; data
submitted by Maverik’s supporting the transfer and Maverik’s preliminary review of potentially
requesting transfer of the license for use at it’s east Cheyenne business location.  U pon inquiry,
Ms. Intlekofer advised ther e are approximately four r etail licenses currently in “parked” status
and not all license s are on the same status e nding timeframe.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” --
Mr. Cook, Mr. J ohnson, Mr. L aybourn, Mr. L una, Mr. Roy bal, Mr. Shanor a nd Mr. White.
Voting “no” -- Mr. Case, Dr. Rinne and Mayor Orr. 
Under other business:
Ellen Stomp i nquired a bout the scope of work to be inc luded in the traf fic study  for
Cheyenne Frontier Days, noting that pedestrian and bicyclist traffic need to be included in the
study and Eighth Avenue crosswalks should be considered.  Vi cki Nemecek, Director of Public
Works, provided information on a pr oposed painted c rosswalk (north-south) on the ea st side of
Carey and Eig hth Avenues.  Ma yor Orr  advised the study  is thro ugh the MP O (Metr opolitan
Planning Organization) and CFD  and includes pedestrian traffic and was approved pursuant to
action on the Consent Agenda earlier in the meeting.  Mr. Laybourn commented that members of
the community should be able to request removal of items from the Consent Agenda.
Don Pierson discussed a  safety issue with alley  traffic near the 4400 block of  East 17 th
Street (and Cheyenne Ranch area) off the Greenway path that is experiencing speeding, careless
driving and unsaf e vehicle traffic resulting in safe ty concerns for the  residential neighborhood.
He stated drivers are using the alley as a shor tcut route and due to the configuration of the a lley
numerous ac cidents have occurred in whic h the City ’s split rail fenc e has be en dama ged and
vehicles have wound up down the slope into the back yards of residences.  Mr. Pierson requested
the alley be made a one-way with barricading on the east end and signage at the west end that no
through traffic was allowed.  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, advised that the alley is
approximately 1,300 ft. in length and slopes d ownhill and that she had visited with the traffic
engineer about potentially  blocking  the alley  either on the  east e nd or in th e middle and that
further r esearch w ould b e c onducted.  Cor ey Ki mball e xpressed s imilar s afety c oncerns;
reviewed accident history over the years, and residents’ concerns, and encouraged closure of the
alley to throug h traffic.  I n support of his comments, Mr. Kimball submitted a written proposa l
and pe tition c oncerning t he un paved a ccess r oad ( on fi le wi th C ity Cle rk’s of fice).  Kr istin
Russell, referencing her email to governing body members (on file with City Clerk’s office), also
spoke about the dangerous conditions involving vehicle traffic and expressed support to close the
alley to traffic.  [City Clerk note: Due to a previous commitment, Mr. Shanor left the meeting] 
 
Reminder was made of the annual Police Department sponsored Neighborhood Nig ht-
Out community block parties to be held July 11 .  M r. Johnson noted an upcoming communityth
event involving collection of non-perishable goods and requested an update on the status of the
electrical a nd la ndscaping wo rk a t th e ro undabout n ear S outh H igh Sc hool.  I n r esponse to
comment regarding City-owned bricks stored in the dow ntown area, Vicki Nemecek, Director of
Public Works, advised City staff is addressing the problem.  Appreciation was expressed to staff
for researching the alley issue raised by concerned residents.
There being n o f urther b usiness to  c ome b efore th e g overning b ody, th e me eting was
officially adjourned at 9:40 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
July 21, 2017