MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-07-24 | CLIP_ID: 611 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 611

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
July 24, 2017
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Cheyenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Prese nt were:  MAYOR – Mar ian J . Orr;
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky  Case, Richard Johnson, Pete L aybourn, Mike L una, Dr. Mark
Rinne, Scott Roy bal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Abs ent: Bryan Cook.  Also prese nt: Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  ( All agenda items listed with the desig nation of [C A] are considered to
be routine it ems b y th e governing b ody a nd w ill b e e nacted b y o ne mo tion. T here w ill b e no
separate discussion on these items unless a membe r of the g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.).  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant
to support rec eived by Mr. Case a nd Mr. J ohnson, Item #24(a) was re moved from the Consent
Agenda.  Mr. Roy bal moved to appr ove re maining Consent Ag enda items, sec onded by  Mr.
Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes from Reg ular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on J uly 10, 2 017.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Tyrrell
Chevrolet) a nd vaca ted Council Chambers.  Upon inquiry , Craig  L aVoy, Deputy  Direc tor of
Public Works, Mayor Orr, Sam Berta, Engineering Department, Jim Voeller, City Engineer, and
Carol I ntlekofer, City  Clerk, provided infor mation available on vouchers pa yable to the
following:  Dustbusters, I nc. (a nnual orde r of mag nesium chloride utilized for dusty  roads) ;
Fortune Media Group (contract for Modern Business televised segment highlighting Cheyenne);
Strata (pr ofessional ser vices for  consulting a nd observa tion for chip sea l repa ir prog ram), and
W.A.R.M. ( Wyoming A ssociation o f Ri sk M anagement) Pr operty I nsurance Po ol ( annual
liability a nd pr operty po ol coverage).  Com ment w as ma de on  the  c ost in crease of  pe t w aste
receptacle bags located in parks and along the Greenway purchased from Yuckos, Inc. relative to
encouraging the  community  to assist with personally  providing alterna tive plastic bag s.  Mr.
Luna mov ed to approve pa yment of vouche rs as pre sented, sec onded by  Mr Case. Motion
carried.  Vo ting “ yes” --  a ll m embers of  the  g overning bo dy pr esent in Council Ch ambers.
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to Council Chambers.
ORDINANCE – 3  READING – Creating Section 10.24.180, Nuisance exhibition motorrd
vehicle exhaust-prohibited, of Chapter 10.24, Rules of the Road Ge nerally, of Title 10, Vehic les
and Tra ffic, of  the Code of the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming.  Reporting  for Public Service s
Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.
Comments we re ma de on  c ommunity he alth a nd e nvironmental is sues, a nd the  la ck o f p ublic
opposition being voice d on the ordinanc e.  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Shanor voting “no”. (#4190)
ORDINANCE – 2  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the westnd
421.77’ of Tract 1, Lincoln Valley Tracts, being situated in a portion of the N W ¼ of Section 36
Township 14 North, Range 66 West of t he Sixth Principal Meridian, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located southeast of the  intersec tion of Whi tney Road and Ea st Pershing B oulevard).  Mr.
Roybal moved to appr ove on sec ond reading with staff conditions #1 th rough #4, seconde d by
Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE –  2  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,nd
Section 5.1.2 Zo ning Districts Established, and Sec tion 5.1.3 Official Z oning Ma p, of the
Unified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from AR - Ag ricultural
Residential (County) to AR Agricultural Residential for the west 421.77’ of Tract  1,  L incoln
Valley Trac ts, L aramie County , Wy oming ( located southe ast of the inter section of Whitney
Road and East Pershing Boulevard).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded
by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING - A nnexing to the City  of Chey enne, Wyoming, all ofnd
Lot 1, Block 1, Taxidermy Addition and the north 305.23’ except north 150’ of Tract 14, Sunny
Side Addition and the north 50’ of the  south 300’ of the we st 91’ of Tra ct 14, Sunny  Side
Addition; sit uated i n t he S W¼SW¼ o f S ection 2 7, T .14N., R .66W. o f t he 6  P .M., L aramieth
County, Wy oming ( located nor theast of the inter section of Ridg e Road and East Pershing
Boulevard).  Mr. Roy bal moved to appr ove on sec ond reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE –  2  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,nd
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Off icial Z oning Map, of the
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MU – Mixed-Use (County)
to MUB Mixe d-Use Business Emphasis for all of Lot 1, Block 1, Taxidermy Addition and the
north 305.23’ except north 150’ of Tract 14, Sunny Side Addition and the north 50’ of the south
300’ of the w est 9 1’ of Tract 14, Sunny  Side Addition, L aramie County , Wy oming ( located
northeast of the intersection of Ridge Road and East Pershing Boulevard).  Mr. Roybal moved to
approve on second r eading, seconded by Mr. L una.  Upon  inquiry, Eric Ha mmer, Planning and
Development Department, advised that upon anne xation the applica nt can c onnect to the City ’s
water and  sewer system.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
ORDINANCE –  2  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,nd
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Sec tion 5.1.3 Official Z oning Ma p, of the
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to
LI L ight I ndustrial f or L ots 1,  2,  5,  a nd a  po rtion of  L ot 3 , B lock 1 , So uth Pa rk Es tates, 6th
Filing, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located between Partoy an Dr ive and Waltersc heid B oulevard,
north of I -80).  Mr. Roy bal moved to approve  on second r eading, seconde d by Mr. J ohnson.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amen dment,nd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Off icial Z oning Ma p, of the
Cheyenne U nified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from NB
Neighborhood B usiness to NR-3 Neig hborhood Residential Hig h Density  for L ot 1, Block 4,
Storey Boulevard Extension Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Converse Place
Apartments (located between N. Converse Avenue and Ogden Road, south of Storey Boulevard).
Randy Reed, Dray, Dyekman, Reed and Healey law firm, attorney representing the developers,
reviewed UDC re-zoning criteria, noting the proposed development design meets requirements,
and that the applicant is not asking  for a ny variances affiliated with the pr oposed project.  Sam
Long, Summit Housing Group, Inc., reviewed Summit’s company history of af fordable housing
projects.  During his comments, a hand-out containing information on the company was
submitted (on f ile with Cit y Clerk’s office) and Mr. L ong provided infor mation on past simil ar
housing p rojects d eveloped b y S ummit; t he n eed f or a ffordable housing i n t he c ommunity;
location and f ootprint elements of the pr operty and apa rtment complex project, including  an
easement a rea c ontaining water l ines; p roject be nefits; AD A comp atibility; Su mmit’s p roperty
management experience; no evidence of increased crime rates based upon prior projects; public
school a vailability de termined th rough th e sc hool d istrict, a nd no n-anticipated major t raffic
increase due to the projec t.  Fra nk Cole, adjac ent land owne r, submitted a follow-up re-zoning
protest petition, to the City Clerk, noting it contained the last signature he had previously advised
he would provide .  Mr. Cole spoke in opposition to  the project, citing conc erns with pre vious
discussions r egarding w ater l ines w ithin t he e asement a rea b eing l ocated on private p roperty;
street a ccess p oints; sc hool b us ro utes, a nd tr affic pa tterns.  Du ring his  c omments, M r. Col e
submitted a ma p (on file with City  Cl erk’s offic e) de picting a  proposed Cra ne B luff Road
extension.  Patti Riesland, Chair, Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities, spoke in support
of the project involving re-zoning and having apartment housing available for disabled tenants,
and benefits of affordable housing for qualified low and moderate income families. Speaking in
opposition to the ordinance and project generally were:  J im Wade; Krystal Lewis; Jerry Bruner
and G loria B runer.  T opics d iscussed i ncluded: O vercrowded p ublic s chools i n t he v icinity;
illegal immigrants; number of apartment housing units already in place in the area; neighborhood
concerns and petition that had been previously submitted to the City Clerk signed by
approximately 20 0 r esidents o pposing the  pr oject; n umber o f c alls fo r p olice re sponses to
existing a partments in the area ; impact of anothe r apa rtment housing pr oject planne d for
construction in the vicinity ; effect of the pr oject on nearby residents’ pr operty values; conc ern
with a parking lot being built over the easement parcel containing water lines; student and traffic
safety, and tena nt parking  space .  During  comments by  Mr. Wade and Ms. L ewis, ea ch
submitted a hand-out (on file with City Clerk’s office) in support of their comments.  Mr. Roybal
moved to appr ove on sec ond rea ding, se conded by  Mr. J ohnson.  Upon inquiry , Susana
Montana, Planning  and De velopment Depa rtment, advised that the original ea sement and a n
update is on file, and explained that many of the concerns discussed will be addressed during the
site plan process.  Discussion included the following topics: Affordable housing; project meeting
re-zoning requirements; two protest petitions filed with the City  Clerk; owner ship, annexation
and zoning history of the property; other zoning classifications (MUR or NR-2) which may fit
the p roject’s n eeds b ut m ay require c ondition u se approval; i mpact o n s chools i n t he v icinity;
property a ppraisal e lements; di fferent zo ne c lassifications in  the  vic inity, a nd mor e sp ecific
project information being  provided throug h the site plan process.  Dur ing discussion and upon
inquiry, Ca rol I ntlekofer, City  Cle rk, a dvised r esearch r esults on  wh ether t he tw o p rotest
petitions meet st ate statute and UDC requirements would be prov ided prior to t he next Pub lic
Services Committee meeting.  Also in r esponse to inquirie s, Ms. Monta na and Seth L loyd,
Planning and Development, provided informa tion on past ownership, an nexation and zoning of
the property and re -zoning processes which var y for diff erent lot types and sizes, and Mr. L ong
responded to inquiries reg arding other ty pes of zoning cl assifications and Summ it’s reason for
requesting the zone change to NR-3, which is a use by right, based upon the future land use plan.
Mr. Sh anor re quested Public Service s Commi ttee member s look into MUR  and NR-2 zoning
classifications as possible considerations.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” -- all memb ers of the
governing body present.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING - Amending Section 5.52.050 (A) and (B) of Chapternd
5.52, Massage E stablishments, withi n Title 5, Business L icenses and Reg ulations, of the
Cheyenne City Cod e pertaining to Massag e Therapists’ licensing requirements.  Reporting  for
Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to approve on se cond reading, seconded by Mr. J ohnson.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  County Final Pl at
for BT II First Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Tract 13, Allison Tracts, being situated in the
west ½ of Section 8, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6th Principal Meridian, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located east of and a djacent to Sout h Greeley Highway, south of Fox Farm
Road).  Mr. Roy bal moved to adopt with staff conditions #1 and #2, sec onded by Mr. J ohnson.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#5867)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing r ental rates for the use of the Che yenne Botanic Garden
complex and dedicating  the funds r aised to the ope rations and maintena nce of  the Chey enne
Botanic Gardens complex.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5868)
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Adopting an amendment to the Future Land Use Map in PlanCheyenne,
the master plan for the City of Cheyenne and the comprehensive plan for portions of Laramie
County, a mending the  land use  c ategory fr om U rban Re sidential a nd Pub lic Qu asi-Public to
Mixed-Use Employ ment for L ots 1-5, Bloc k 1, South P ark Esta tes, 6th Filing , Chey enne,
Wyoming ( located be tween P artoyan Dr ive and Waltersc heid B oulevard, north of I -80) –
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authoriz ing submission of an a pplication to the Wy oming Water
Development Comm ission for g rant funding for a  Dam Enlar gement Evaluation Project in the
amount of $400,000 and a uthorizing the Mayor, the City Clerk and the D irector of the B oard of
Public Utili ties to ex ecute the applica tion and all rela ted documents – referred to F inance
Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Laybourn)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a Wyoming Cultural
Trust Fund Grant Agreement for Phase 2 of the Warren Rest House in Holliday Park – referred
to Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the addition of twenty-nine (29) structures and removal of
two (2) structures in the Downtown Che yenne Historic District from the C ontributing Structures
List maintained by the City’s Planning office – referred to Finance Committee.  ( Sponsor - Mr.
Roybal)
Preliminary Plat for South Park Estates 10th Filing , a replat of Lots 1, 2, 5, and a por tion
of L ot 3, Blo ck 1, S outh Park Estates, 6th Filing , Chey enne, Wy oming ( located be tween
Partoyan Drive and Walterscheid Boulevard, north of I-80).  Mr. Roybal moved to acknowledge
the Planning Commi ssion’s re commendation to appr ove with staff  conditions #1 through #5,
seconded by Mr. J ohnson.  Motion carrie d.  Voting “ yes” -- all members of the governing body
present.
[CA] Human Services Agreement with Safe Harbor to provide a safe and supportive
environment for  children in the Cit y of Chey enne.  Motion (pe r Consent Ag enda) car ried
(amount not to exceed $17,500.00). (#6692)
[C A] Human Ser vices Agreement between Cheyenne Housing  Authority .  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $50,000.00). (#6693)
[CA] Human Services Agreement with Peak Wellness, Inc. Alcohol Receiving Center.  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $114,955.00). (#6694)
[CA] Human Services Agreement with United Way  of L aramie County (2015-2018 1%  Sales
Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $500,000.00; two year term).
(#6695)
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for
animal co ntrol and a nimal sh elter s ervices.  Mr . Luna mov ed to  a pprove in a n a mount n ot t o
exceed $484,000.00, se conded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. L una moved to ame nd, seconded by Mr.
Johnson, by substitute dated July 18, 2017 which includes the  following amendment made at the
July 17 , 2 017 F inance Com mittee me eting: Page 3,  Se ction 6  - C ontractor’s Re sponsibilities,
Paragraph 6(c)(ii) by removing the following  language “Contractor shall provide  to the May or
by March 1 of ea ch year a deta iled report of all such donations, fees a nd other monies ra ised”
and replacing it with the following lang uage “Contractor shall provide to the Mayor by March 1
of each year a report of income broken down by (1) fees for services; (2) contract revenues-City;
(3) c ontract reve nues-County; (4) cha ritable c ontributions; (5) in come f rom foundations and
grants.”.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Main motion as amended carried.  Vo ting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
(#6696)
[C A] Agreement between Timothy O’Leary and Dennis Rooney and the City of Cheyenne for
the purc hase of real property located at 2303 Westland Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be used
for public purposes – referred to Finance Committee.
[C A] Agreement for Juvenile Compliance and Diversion Officer services b etween Laramie
County, Wyoming, the City of Cheyenne, and the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services
Joint Powers Boa rd (Juvenile J ustice De tention Prevention funds) – r eferred to Financ e
Committee.
[C A] Memorandum o f Understanding by and between Laramie County, the City of Cheyenne,
the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities, the Cheyenne/Laramie County Board of Health, and the
Cheyenne Re gional A irport B oard re garding t he man agement o f t he ESR I En terprise L icense
Agreement – referred to Finance Committee.
[C A] Industrial and Ec onomic Dev elopment Services Agreement betwee n the City  of
Cheyenne and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS)
– referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Human Servic es Ag reement betwee n United Way  of L aramie Count y and the City  of
Cheyenne to create a Community School Pilot Program (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) – referred to
Finance Committee.
[CA] Human Servic es Ag reement betwee n United Way  of L aramie Cou nty and the City  of
Cheyenne to provide technical assistance to Human Services community programs (2011-2014
1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Agreement for operation of the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Gift Shop between the City of
Cheyenne a nd The F riends of the  Bota nic Gar dens F oundation located a t 710 S. L ions Park
Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Extension Agreement to the Community Counseling and Intervention Services
Agreement (City Contract No. 6266) between the City of Cheyenne Youth Alternatives Division
and L aramie County  School District Number One .  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) car ried.
(#6266)
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 6641  betwee n the City  of Chey enne a nd
American Striping Company  to increa se the ov erall contrac t amount for the 2017 Pave ment
Markings Project (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.
Consideration of Bid #S-15-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Reiman Corp., Chey enne, WY, for  the Kenned y Guar drail Reconstruc tion
Project (2 015-2018 1% Sales Ta x).  Mr. Roy bal moved to appr ove, seconded by Mr. J ohnson
(amount not to exceed $105,500.00).  Comment followed on painting/resurfacing the guardrail
following rec onstruction and cost of sa me, and da mage to the g uardrail cause d by  vehicular
incidents ov er the y ears.  Upon inquiry , Sam Be rta, Eng ineering D epartment, provided
information on the project.  Request was made to Mr. Berta to acquire an estimate of how muc h
it would cost to paint/resurfa ce the guardrail following reconstruction.  Motion carr ied.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#6697)
Consideration of Bid #S-14-17 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, WY, for  the 2017 City  Chip S eal, #1 Projec t
(2015-2018 1% Sales Ta x).  Mr. L una moved to ac cept the bid in an a mount not to ex ceed
$585,343.48.00, seconde d by  Mr. J ohnson.  Upon i nquiry reg arding curr ent status of the
pavement manag ement prog ram a nd the nex t program upda te, J im Voeller, City  Eng ineer,
advised they are switching to a new software program and plan to have a contract in place this
fall to have  the stree ts reviewed with an update  provided by next year.  He state d that some of
the data f rom the cur rent prog ram wa s used for the  projec t but  the program considers stre et
conditions, not chip seal, so was not fully  used as a ffiliated for this bid.  Comment was made
regarding concerns with the quality and longevity of street repair projects; different methods that
have be en u sed f or stre et r epairs, a nd ma nagement o f a nd sta ndards in volving str eet r epair
projects.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Voeller provided information on what data Strata will provide under
their contract with the City for consulting and observation of the chip seal program, which will
not include a r eport on the long evity of utiliz ing the chip seal process, and advised a video w as
available to the public containing  information on the chip se al process.  Mayor Orr stated, as an
alternative to viewing  the video, she ha s reque sted staff pr epare a w ritten rep ort on the
information containe d in the video.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “y es” - - all member s of the
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. (#6698) 
[CA] Consideration to purchase for the Police Department Motorola APX7500 dual band high
power radios from Wireless Advanced Communications, Evans, CO (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $96,028.00).
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 14, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. in
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’N eil Avenue , Chey enne, Wy oming, to dete rmine whe ther
compliance of anne xation conditions require d by  Wy oming Statute §15-1- 402 exis ts for a
portion of the S1/2SE1/4 S ection 22, Township 14 North, Rang e 66 West of the 6th P.M.,
Laramie County , Wy oming (located north of and adjac ent to Dell Rang e B oulevard, east of
Griffith Avenue).
Under other business:
Mayor Or r a nnounced the re wa s a n a dditional it em be ing a dded to  the  a genda du e to
timeliness involving a Federal aviation grant agreement for the Airport Board that is due August
18, 2017, which is prior to the next City Council meeting.  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, read the
following entitlement of the item: “G rant Agreement accepting Federal Aviation Grant AI P #54
for the pur chase of snow re moval equipment by  the Chey enne Re gional Airport B oard” and
Mayor Orr referred the item to Finance Committee.
Mr. J ohnson requested an upda te on the 17  Street alley  issue (near the 4400 block ofth
East 17  St reet) w ith M ayor O rr s tating s he w ould r equest s taff p rovide in formation o n theth
matter.
There being no further  business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:59 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
August 3, 2017