MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-08-14 | CLIP_ID: 613 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 613

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
August 14, 2017
The Go verning B ody of  the  City  of  Che yenne me t in  re gular s ession on  thi s d ate
beginning a t 6:00 p.m. in C ouncil Chambers.  Present we re:  MAYO R – Marian J. Orr;
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky  Case, B ryan Cook, Richard Johnson, P ete L aybourn, Mike
Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal and Jeff White.  Absent: Dicky Shanor.  Also present: Kylie
Soden, Deputy  City  Clerk, and Sy lvia Hac kl, Cit y Attorney .  T he pledge of a llegiance was
recited.
Consent Agenda.  ( All agenda items listed with the desi gnation of [C A] are considered to
be routine items by  t he governing body and will be ena cted by one motion. There  will be no
separate discussion o n these items unless a me mber of the  g overning body  so reque sts and
support by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be
considered in its normal sequence  on the ag enda.)  Mr. Roy bal moved to approve, seconded by
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
[CA] Minutes f rom Regular Meeting of the Gover ning Body on J uly 24, 2017.   Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
 Mr. Luna moved to appr ove payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. White.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
Mayor Orr  opened a  Public Hear ing to de termine whe ther c ompliance of  anne xation
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exists for a portion of the S1/2SE1/4 Section
22, Township 14 North, Rang e 66 West of the 6th P.M., L aramie County, Wyoming (located
north of and a djacent to Dell Rang e Boulevard, east of G riffith Avenue). Seth Lloyd, Planning
and Development office, provided information on the property requested by the landowner to be
annexed and reviewed requirements of and compliance with annexation conditions contained in
state statutes.  Ther e being  no further  comments or input an d purpose of the  public hear ing
having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing.
ORDINANCE – 3  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the westrd
421.77’ of Tract 1, Lincoln Valley Tracts, being situated in a portion of the NW ¼ of Section 36
Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Laramie County, Wyoming
(located southeast of the  intersection of Whitney Road and Ea st Pershing Boulevard). Reporting
for P ublic S ervices C ommittee, M r. R oybal m oved t o ap prove o n t hird an d fi nal re ading,
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion car ried.  Voting  “yes” - - all member s of the g overning body
present. (#4191)
ORDINANCE – 3  READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Am endments,rd
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Sec tion 5.1.3 Official Z oning Ma p, of the
Unified De velopment Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from AR - Ag ricultural
Residential ( County) t o A R A gricultural Re sidential for the west 421. 77’ o f T ract 1,  L incoln
Valley Trac ts, L aramie County , Wy oming ( located southe ast of the interse ction of Whitney
Road and Ea st Pershing B oulevard).  Donn Edmunds i nquired whe ther ther e we re a ny
development plans fo r t he pr operty a nd e xpressed c oncerns w ith fl ooding in t he a rea. E ric
Hammer, Planning and Development office, advised there are no current plans for development
and the property owner is requesting annexation to connect to the Cit y’s sanitary sewer service.
Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. L una.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4192)
ORDINANCE – 3  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming all of Lotrd
1, Block 1, Taxidermy Addition and the north 305.23’ except north 150’ of Tract 14, Sunny Side
Addition and the north 50’ of the south 300’ of  the west 91’ of  Tract 14, Sunny Side Addition;
situated i n t he S W¼SW¼ o f S ection 2 7, T .14N., R .66W. o f t he 6  P .M., La ramie C ounty,th
Wyoming ( located nor theast of the inter section of Ridg e Road a nd East Pershing  Boule vard).
Mr. Roybal moved to appr ove on third and final r eading, seconded by Mr. L una.  Mr. Roy bal
moved to postpone to Aug ust, 28, 2017 at the reque st of the developer, seconded by Mr. Cook.
Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE –  3  REA DING - P ursuant to Section 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,rd
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Off icial Zoning Map, of the
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MU – Mixed-Use (County)
to MUB Mixed-Use B usiness Emphasis for all of L ot 1, Block 1, Ta xidermy Addition and the
north 305.23’ except north 150’ of Tract 14, Sunny Side Addition and the north 50’ of the south
300’ of the west 91’ of Tract 14, Sunny Side Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming ( located
northeast of the intersection of Ridge Road and East Pershing Boulevard).  Mr. Roybal moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  M r. Roybal moved to postpone to
August, 28, 2017 at the request of the developer, seconded by Mr. Case.  M otion t o p ostpone
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.
ORDINANCE –  3  REA DING - P ursuant t o Sect ion 2.2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,rd
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the
Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to
LI L ight I ndustrial f or L ots 1,  2,  5,  a nd a  po rtion of  L ot 3 , B lock 1 , So uth Pa rk Es tates, 6th
Filing, Chey enne, Wy oming ( located between Partoy an Dr ive and Waltersc heid B oulevard,
north of I-80).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and f inal reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4193)
ORDINANCE –  3  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1, Z oning Ma p A mendment,rd
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the
Cheyenne U nified Development Code, cha nging the  zoning classific ation from NB
Neighborhood B usiness to NR- 3 Neighborhood Residential Hig h Density  for L ot 1, Block 4,
Storey Boulevard Extension Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be known as Converse Place
Apartments (located between N. Converse Avenue and Ogden Road, south of Storey Boulevard).
Susana Montana, Planning and Development Department, provided information on the purpose
of the re -zoning re quest, which involves a de velopment project to construc t three a partment
buildings conta ining 72 units on the prope rty; uses  allowed under  the cur rent Ne ighborhood
Business zone classification vs. the requested change to Neighborhood Residential High Density;
history of annexation a nd pa st zo ne c lassification f or the  pr operty, a nd tw o r e-zoning pr otest
petitions that had be en filed.  Ms. Montana  advised one  of the pe titions have me t compliance
requirements, theref ore, a ction on the ordinance (on third and f inal rea ding) will require a
minimum of  e ight a ffirmative vo tes by  governing bo dy me mbers fo r t he or dinance to p ass.
Randy Reed, Dray, Dyekman, Reed and Healey law firm, attorney representing the developers,
stated that elements of the proje ct plan re main unchanged and me et all UDC re quirements, and
commented in support of the ordinance.  Also speaking in s upport of the ordinance were Rusty
Snow, President, Summi t Housing G roup, and D onn Edmunds and  Constance Galleg os, who
spoke in favor  g enerally wi th reg ard to low income  housing.  Spea king in opposition to the
ordinance and proposed development project were: Frank Cole; Denise Burke, Boyd Wiggam,
Lela Ladd and K rystal L ewis.  Topic s presented include d: Past communications between Mr .
Cole and the City involving the property; request that a six foot concrete fence be installed along
the east and south boundaries of the  projec t are a; flooding  cause d by  past construc tion;
infrastructure a nd tr affic c oncerns; c ommunication b etween Ci ty sta ff a nd re sidents; pr operty
values; zoning law s and UDC re quirements; similar housin g development in Bozeman, MT;
development plans for single family homes to be located on adjacent property, and a community
plan to  ble nd mul ti-family de velopments wi th e xisting ne ighborhoods.  Mr . Ro ybal moved to
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Montana provided
information on reviews and input that will occur during the site plan review process; land density
calculations used to determine the  number of un its per acre, and concerns she has received from
individuals reg arding the proposed de velopment projec t.  Discussion followed and inc luded:
Infrastructure limit ations; effe cts of low income housing  on th e community; project loca tion;
misperception related to City Council’s involvement in the project; neighborhood homeowners’
concerns re garding proper ty values, a nd p ositive aspects of the projec t and bene fit to the
community.  M otion carried.  V oting “ yes” --  a ll m embers of  the  g overning bo dy pr esent.
(#4195) [Ci ty Cle rk no te: F ollowing a nnouncement of the v ote, M r. Whit e va cated Co uncil
Chambers and was absent for the remainder of the meeting]
ORDINANCE –  3  RE ADING -  A mending Se ction 5 .52.050 ( A) a nd ( B) o f Ch apterrd
5.52, Massag e Establishments, within Titl e 5, B usiness L icenses and R egulations, of the
Cheyenne City Code perta ining to Massa ge Therapists’ licensing requirements.  Reporting for
Finance Committ ee, Mr. Luna moved to appr ove on third and f inal reading, s econded by Mr.
Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4195)
ORDINANCE –  1  REA DING - Pursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Z oning Ma p A mendments,st
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 5.6.2.
PUD – Planned Unit Deve lopment District, of the Unified D evelopment Code, chang ing the
zoning classification from PUD P lanned Unit De velopment to PUD Planned Unit Deve lopment
for a portion of Lot 2, Block 1 of Buffalo Ridge Estates, 10th Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie
County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Sunflower Road, south of Sagebrush Ave) –
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING - Pursua nt to Sections 1.1.6 a nd 2.4.1 of the Chey ennest
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Sections 1.4.4.a and c  and Section 5.1, Ta ble 5-1
of the UDC to rename a nd clarify the definition for Group dwe lling to clarify the definitions for
Adult Care--Assisted Living, and Adult Care- -Nursing Home Land Uses and adding  residential
and nonresidential zoning districts where Group housing would be allowed as a conditional use –
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING –Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Chey ennest
Unified De velopment Code (UD C), amending  Section 5.1 of the Chey enne U nified
Development Code (UDC) to allow utility stations within the AG, AR, and AD zoning districts
after an a dministrative use  approva l – refe rred to Publi c Servic es Committ ee. (Sponsor - Mr.
Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING –Pursua nt to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of  the Chey ennest
Unified De velopment Code (UDC), amending  Section 1.4.4 and 5.1 of the  Cheyenne U nified
Development Co de (UDC) t o al low ho me o ccupations as  a  perm itted us e within th e NB, C B,
CBD, L I, and HI  zoning districts – ref erred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr.
Roybal)
ORDINANCE – 1  READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portionst
of the S½SE¼ Section 22, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County,
Wyoming (located north of and a djacent to Dell Rang e Boulevard, east of G riffith Avenue) –
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
ORDINANCE –  1  REA DING – Pu rsuant to Se ction 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,st
Section 5.1.2 Z oning D istricts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Off icial Zoning Map, of the
Unified D evelopment C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification fr om C ounty MR M edium-
density Residential to MR Medium-density  Residential for a  portion of the S½SE¼ Section 22,
Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located north
of and adjacent to Dell Rang e Boulevard, east of G riffith Avenue) – referred to Publi c Services
Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
[CA]  RESOLUTION - Adopting an amendment to the Future Land Use Map in PlanCheyenne,
the mast er plan for the City of Cheyenne and the comprehensive plan for portions of Laramie
County, a mending the  la nd us e c ategory fr om U rban Re sidential a nd Pub lic Qu asi-Public to
Mixed-Use Employ ment for L ots 1-5, Bloc k 1, South P ark Esta tes, 6th Filing , Chey enne,
Wyoming (located between Partoyan Drive and Walterscheid Boulevard, north of I-80).  Motion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5869)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an a pplication t o the Wy oming Water
Development Comm ission for g rant funding for a  Dam Enlar gement Eval uation Project in the
amount of $400,000 and authorizing the Mayor, the City Clerk and the Director of the Board of
Public Utili ties to ex ecute the applica tion and all re lated docume nts.  Motion (per Consent
Agenda) carried.  (#5870)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the  Mayor and City Clerk to execute a Wy oming Cultural
Trust Fund Grant Agreement for Phase 2 of the Warren Rest House in Holliday Park.  M otion
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  (Res. #5871//Cont. #6713)
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the addition of twenty-nine (29) structures and removal of
two (2) structures in the Downtown Che yenne Historic District from the Contributing Structures
List maintained by the City ’s Planning of fice.  Stephanie L owe, Planning Department, advised
staff is re questing a postponement for  two wee ks to prov ide time to clarify  the number of
structures o n th e L ist a nd fo r o ther n eeded c larifications.  Chr istina B ird, Cha ir, H istoric
Preservation Board, submitted and re ad a le tter (on file with City  Clerk’s off ice) reflecting the
Board’s role in supporting a nd preserving historic buildings, and pr ovided details on the revie w
and expansion of historic districts.  M r. Luna moved to adopt, sec onded by Mr. Laybourn.  Mr.
Roybal moved to amend by changing the number from 29 to 28 structures to be a dded; changing
the number from 2 to 3 structures to be removed from the Contributing Structures List, and by
removing building #17, the Fowlers Building (Z’s Home Furnishing), from the List, seconded by
Mr. C ook.  U pon in quiry, M s. L owe a dvised th at t he f orm t o o pt o ut o f th e Co ntributing
Structures List has been r eceived from the ow ner’s of the F owlers Building and the amendment
is no longer necessary.  Sh e explained the requested postponement is to allow for more time to
receive opt out letters that are expected to be submitted. Motion to amend failed.  V oting “no” –
all members of the governing body present.  Mr. L una moved to postpone to Aug ust 28, 2017,
seconded by  Mr. Case.  Motion to postpone car ried.  Vot ing “yes” -- all members of  the
governing body present.
[CA] RESOLUTION - A uthorizing the May or and the  City Clerk to sign a  County Final Plat
for Highland Park, Fourth Filing, a replat of the east 63.63 feet of Tract 13, Highland Park, Third
Filing, situated in the SE1/4 of Section 5, T.13N., R.66W., 6th PM ., Laramie County, Wyoming
(located s outh o f a nd a djacent t o Pe rsons Ro ad, we st o f A venue B -6) –  re ferred to  Pub lic
Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing sub mission of a F ederal Minera l Roy alty Capital
Construction account grant application to the St ate Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the
Governing B ody of  the  City  of  Chey enne to c omplete the  26  Str eet I nterceptor P roject –th
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Autho rizing a street name change for a portion of Summit Drive ly ing
between R idge R oad an d C ollege Dr ive, C ity o f C heyenne, Laramie C ounty, W yoming –
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to execute a Wyoming State
Historical Rec ords Advisory  Boa rd g rant agreement for dig itization of historic Chey enne
building plans – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Luna)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to enter  into a Memorandum of
Understanding wi th t he B oard of  Cou nty Com missioners of  L aramie Co unty, Wy oming,  to
submit a joi nt application for a  g rant a ward under the  Edwar d By rne Me morial J ustice
Assistance Grant Program – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Case)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Proclaiming ‘Purple Heart Day’ and the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming,
to be a Purple Heart City – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Johnson)
[C A] Agreement between Timothy O’Leary and Dennis Rooney and the City of Cheyenn e for
the purchase of real property located a t 2303 Westl and Road, Chey enne, Wyoming, to be use d
for public pur poses. Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (amount not to exceed $76,000.00).
(#6705)
[C A] Agreement fo r Juv enile C ompliance a nd D iversion O fficer s ervices b etween Laramie
County, Wyoming, the City of Cheyenne, and the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services
Joint Powers Board (Juvenile Justice Detention Prevention funds). Motion (per Consent Agenda)
carried (revenue to City $18,521.00).  (#6706)
[C A] Memorandum of Understanding by and between Laramie County, the City of Cheyenne,
the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities, the Cheyenne/Laramie County Board of Health, and the
Cheyenne Re gional A irport B oard re garding the  ma nagement o f t he ESR I En terprise L icense
Agreement.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6707)
Industrial and Ec onomic Deve lopment Servi ces Agreement betwe en the City  of
Cheyenne and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development
(LEADS).  Mr. Luna moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $49,825.00, seconded by Mr.
Roybal. Comment was made r elated t o downtown re development, pa rticularly “the Hole ”
property.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the
exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#6708)
[CA] Human Servic es Ag reement betwee n United Way  of L aramie County  an d the City of
Cheyenne to create a Community School Pilot Program. (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax). Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $315,679.00).  (#6709)
[CA] Human Servic es Ag reement betwee n United Way  of L aramie County  and the City  of
Cheyenne to pr ovide technical assistance to Human Service s community programs. (2011-2014
1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per  Consent Ag enda) car ried (a mount not to ex ceed $183,500.00).
(#6710)
[CA] Agreement for operation of the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Gift Shop between the City of
Cheyenne a nd The F riends of the  Bota nic G ardens Founda tion located at 710 S. L ions Park
Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6711)
[CA] Grant Ag reement acc epting Fe deral Aviation Grant AI P #54 for the purc hase of  snow
removal equipment by  the Chey enne Re gional Airport B oard. Motion (pe r Consent Ag enda)
carried.  (#6712)
 [CA] Contract be tween th e City  of  Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, a nd Laramie
County School District No. 1 for sc hool resource officers for the  2017-2018 school y ear and
summer school 2018 – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Cheyenne
Firefighters Local Union No. 279, I nternational Association of F irefighters, for the pu rpose of
clarifying the  intent of Section 23, Working in a H igher Job Rank – ref erred to Fina nce
Committee. 
[CA] Agreement for Juvenile Probation Services be tween Laramie County, Wyoming and the
City of Cheyenne, office of Youth Alternatives – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Co-sponsorship of a G rant Ag reement (along  with L aramie County  and the Chey enne
Regional Airport B oard) with the Fe deral Av iation Administration for Fe deral Aviation Grant
AIP #53 for the new Airport Terminal Project  – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement to don ate re al pr operty be tween th e City  of  Che yenne a nd L owe’s Ho me
Centers, LLC, pertaining to the Christensen Road Project – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract Modifica tion No. 1 to Cont ract No. 6641 between the City  of Chey enne a nd
American Striping Company  to i ncrease the  overa ll contrac t amount for the 2017 Pave ment
Markings Project. (2011-2014 1%  Sa les Tax).  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried (amount
not to exceed $2,500.00). (#6641)  
[CA] Consideration of B id #S-1-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, WY, for the 2017 Chip Seal, Part #2 Project –
referred to Finance Committee.
Annual re port to the City  of Chey enne r egarding capital improve ments ma de at the
Airport Golf Course  by  the Airport Golf  Club as require d by Lease Ag reement No. 2833 –
referred to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made that the regularly scheduled Monday, August 21, 2017 Finance
Committee meeting will instead be  held on Wednesday , August 23, 2017 at 11:00 a.m. in the
Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 122, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Under other business:
Mr. Laybourn commented  on the status of the Civic Center Commons projec t and the
CPOT Committee that is oversee ing elements of the pr oject.  During discussion, Mayor Orr and
Sylvia Hac kl, Cit y Attorney , provided infor mation on h istory of the proje ct, cur rent status
involving the F EMA grant and extensi on request, due dilige nce that had bee n conducted, and
project delays.
Mr. J ohnson reque sted clar ification of procedure s involving F reedom of I nformation
requests with Ms. Hackl providing  information on what infor mation is needed f rom requesting
parties to fulfill requests, and applicable state statutes addressing public records requests.
Mr. J ohnson commented on the upc oming Ar ts Festival event involving a por tion of
proceeds which will benefit the Cheyenne Youth Orchestra.
There being  no furthe r business to come bef ore the  g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:45 p.m.
Submitted by,
Kylie Soden,
Deputy City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
August 29, 2017