MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-08-28 | CLIP_ID: 615 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 615

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
Office of City Clerk
August 28, 2017
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS
– Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott Roybal, Dr. Mark
Rinne (arriving at 6:03 p.m.), Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City
Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [C A] are considered to be
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Johnson, and pursuant to support received
by Mr. Cook and Mr. White, Agenda Item #22 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Shanor
recused himself from voting participation on the item due to an affiliation with the State Land and
Investment Board (Consent Agenda Item #18), and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved
to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting
“yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement
of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers.  
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 14, 2017.  Motion (per
Consent Agenda) carried.
Mr. J ohnson moved to suspend the rules to c hange the o rder of the a genda by moving
Agenda Item #22 (Resolution proclaiming “Purple Heart Day” and the City as a Purple Heart City)
to be acted upon prior to Agenda Item #7 (Vouchers), seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
RESOLUTION – Proclaiming ‘Purple Heart Day’ and the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to
be a Purple Heart City.  Speaking in support of the resolution were:  Brian Olson, Commander, local
chapter of the Military Order of the Purple Heart; Retired Lt. Col. Barry Gostas; Larry Barttelbort,
Director, Wyoming Veterans Commission; Ted Gostas; Floyd Watson, Save American Veterans;
Major General Luke Reiner, Wyoming Military Department; Lisa Olson Snyder and Peter Howard.
Topics discussed included: History of the Purple Heart medal; recipient qualifications; recognition
of the City as the first city in Wyoming to be designated as a Purple Heart City; importance of the
City’s military support in Cheyenne, and consideration of veterans for positions of leadership and
service on boards and committees.  Ted Gostas commented on his military experience, including
his time as a POW (prisoner of war) which resulted in his receiving two Purple Heart medals.  Mr.
Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Discussion included expression of appreciation to
those serving in the milit ary and particularly to Mr. (Ted) Gostas for his leadership and courage.
It was noted that community events will be planned to celebrate Purple Heart Day in 2018.  Motion
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#5872)
 Mr. Luna moved to appr ove payment of vouche rs as pre sented, seconded by Mr. Cook.
Inquiry wa s ma de re garding vo uchers pa yable to K utak Ro ck, L LP ( professional se rvices in
connection with calcu lation of arbitrage rebate on pa rking structure bonds) and the pur pose of
services provided, and AVI Engineering (professional services for the 17  St. Streetscape Project),th
regarding project oversight and sustainable life of the infrastructure.  Sylvia  Hackl, City Attorney,
advised further information on servic es by Kutak Rock would be  provided to g overning body
members, and Jim Voeller, City Engineer, provided information available on the 17  St. Streetscapeth
Project.  Mr. L una moved to re move the voucher payable to Kutak Rock L LP from the vouche r
payment list, seconded by  Mr. J ohnson.  Motion carr ied.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body.  Main motion to approve, with the exception of the voucher payable to Kutak Rock
LLP, carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson
voting “no”.
ORDINANCE – 3  READING - Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming all of Lot 1,rd
Block 1, Taxidermy Addition and the north 305.23’ except north 150’ of Tract 14, Sunny Side
Addition and the north 50’ of the south 300’ of the  west 91’ of  Tract 14, Sunny Side Addition;
situated in the SW¼SW¼ of Section 27, T.14N., R.66W. of the 6 P.M., Laramie County, Wyomingth
(located northeast of the intersection of Ridge Road and East Pershing Boulevard).  Reporting for
the Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded
by Mr. Luna. Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated 7/31/2017, seconded by Mr. Luna.
Upon inquiry, Eric Hammer, Planning and Development office, explained the substitute corrects the
legal description references shown as “Sunny  Side” to “Sunny side”.  Motion to amend ca rried.
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body. (#4196)
ORDINANCE –  3  REA DING - Pursuant to Se ction 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,rd
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MU – Mixed-Use (County) to MUB
Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for all of Lot 1, Block 1, Taxidermy Addition and the north 305.23’
except north 150’ of Tract 14, Sunny Side Addition and the north 50’ of the south 300’ of the west
91’ of Tr act 14, Sunny  Side Addition, L aramie County, Wy oming ( located nor theast of the
intersection of Ridge Road and East Pershing Boulevard).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third
and fina l rea ding, seconde d by  Mr. L una.  Mr. Roy bal moved to amend by  substitut e date d
7/31/2017, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Eric Hammer, Planning and Development office, explained the
substitute corrects the legal description references shown as “Sunny Side” to “Sunnyside”.  Motion
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body. (#4197)
ORDINANCE –  2  REA DING - P ursuant t o Se ction 2 .2.1 Zoning Ma p A mendments,nd
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 5.6.2.
PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Unified Development Code, changing the zoning
classification from PUD Planned Unit Deve lopment to PUD Pl anned Unit Develop ment for a
portion of Lot 2, Block 1 of Buffalo Ridge Estates, 10th Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County,
Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Sunflower Road, south of Sagebrush Ave).  Mr. Roybal
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Comment was made in support of the
project affiliated with the zone change and how it will benefit youth after school and recreational
activities, and drainage improvements planned for the area pursuant to a proposed Memorandum
of Understanding (Agenda Item #23(f)).  Moti on carried.  Voting  “yes” -- all member s of the
governing body.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING - Pursua nt to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Che yennend
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Sections 1.4.4.a and c and Section 5.1, Table 5-1 of
the UDC to rename and clarify the definition for Group dwelling to clarify the definitions for Adult
Care – A ssisted Living, and Adult Care – Nursing  Home Land Uses and adding residential a nd
nonresidential zoning districts where Group housing would be allowed as a conditional use.  Susana
Montana, Planning and Development office, requested the ordinance be withdrawn from the agenda
to allow for further review by staff.  Upon query and with no objection raised by members of the
governing body, Mayor Orr announced the item was being withdrawn from the agenda.
ORDINANCE – 2  R EADING –Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the  Cheyennend
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 5.1 of the Cheyenne Unified Development
Code (UDC) to a llow utili ty stations within t he AG, A R, and AD zoning districts af ter a n
administrative use approval.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.
Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING –Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the  Cheyennend
Unified De velopment Code (UD C), amending  Section 1.4.4 and 5.1 of the  Cheyenne Unified
Development Code (UDC) to allow home occupations as a permitted use within the NB, CB, CBD,
LI, and HI zoning districts.  Mr. Roy bal moved to app rove on second reading, seconded by Mr.
Cook.  Upon inquiry, Eric Hammer, Planning and Development office, explained the ordinance was
brought forward by staff and the public and stated there are no plans in the near future to further
review land uses involving home occupations.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portionnd
of the S½SE¼ Section 22, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County,
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Dell Range Boulevard, east of Griffith Avenue).  Mr.
Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”
-- all members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE – 2  READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,nd
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified
Development C ode, c hanging the  zon ing c lassification f rom Co unty MR M edium-density
Residential to MR Medium-density Residential for a portion of the S½SE¼ Section 22, Township
14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent
to Dell Range Boulevard, east of Griffith Avenue).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading
with staff conditions #1, 2 a nd 3, seconded by Mr. Cook.  M otion carri ed.  Vo ting “yes” -- all
members of the governing body.
ORDINANCE –  1  READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyennest
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Sections 1.4.3 and 5.7.1 of the Chey enne Unified
Development Code (UDC) to clarify the definition of ‘through lot’ for accessory structure setback
purposes – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor - Mr. Roybal)
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the addition of twenty-nine (29) structures and removal of two
(2) structures in the Downtown Cheyenne Historic District from the Contributing Structures List
maintained by the City’s Planning office.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to
adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Shanor moved to postpone to September 11, 2017 pursuant
to staff request, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members
of the governing body present.
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for
Highland Park, Fourth Filing, a replat of the east 63.63 feet of Tract 13, Highland Park, Third Filing,
situated in the SE1/4 of Section 5, T.13N., R.66W., 6th PM., Laramie County, Wyoming (located
south of and adjacent to Persons Road, west of Avenue B-6).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.
(#5873)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Mineral Royalty Capital Construction
account grant application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body
of the City  of Chey enne to c omplete the 26  Street I nterceptor Project.  Motion (per C onsentth
Agenda) carried. (#5874)
RESOLUTION – Authorizing a  street name change for a portion of Summit Drive ly ing
between Ridge Road and Colleg e Drive, City of Chey enne, Laramie County, Wyoming.  Tom
Mason, Director, Metropolitan Planning Office, referenced and discussed a map he had previously
provided to governing body members (on file with City Clerk’s office), and explained the intent of
the resolution is to provide consistency in the street name for Storey Blvd. corridor, which will also
assist with emergency response services for the area. He advised there wer 18 addresses that would
be affected by the name change and time would be provided for residents to change their address
information re lative to mail del ivery.  He noted there  is another Summit Drive, which isn’t
connected to this portion of Summit Drive, elsewhere in the City that further convolutes the issue.
Mr. Roybal reported there was no recommendation on the item from Public Services Comm ittee.
Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  U pon inquiry, Mr. Mason stated the GIS
system can be quickly updated as soon as it is legally appropriate to do so, and that contact will be
made to Goog le maps about upda ting its mapping  information.  Comment was made r egarding
planned apartment units slated to be built in the area and making the street name change prior to
additional development along the corridor.  Motion carr ied.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#5875)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to execute a Wyoming State
Historical Records Advisory Board grant agreement for digitization of historic Cheyenne building
plans.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5876)
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to enter  into a Memorandum of
Understanding with the Board of County Commissioners of Laramie County, Wyoming,  to submit
a joint application for a grant award under the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant
Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (Res. #5877/Cont. #6714)
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and Laramie County
School District No. 1 for school resource officers for the 2017-2018 school year and summer school
2018.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6715)
Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Cheyenne
Firefighters Local Union No. 279, I nternational Association of Fi refighters, for the purpose of
clarifying the intent of Section 23, Working in a Higher Job Rank.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve,
seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. Shanor moved to postpone to September 11, 2017 pursuant to staff
request, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the
governing body. 
[CA] Agreement for Juvenile Probation Services between Laramie County, Wyoming and the City
of Cheyenne, office of Youth Alternatives.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6716) 
[CA] Co-sponsorship of a Gr ant Ag reement (along  with L aramie Coun ty and the Chey enne
Regional Airport Board) with the Federal Aviation Administration for Federal Aviation Grant AIP
#53 for the new Airport Terminal Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6717) 
[CA] Agreement to donate real property between the City of Cheyenne and Lowe’s Home Centers,
LLC, pertaining to the Christensen Road Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6718)
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County School District Number One ,
Sunflower Ridge L3C, and the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, for drainage improvements, Buffalo
Ridge Subdivision – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6457 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI
Constructors of Wyoming LLC, for additions and renovations to the Waste Transfer Station Project
– referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6498 between the City of Cheyenne and DHM
Design Corporation to move funds fr om Task 4, Constr uction Administration, to Tasks 1 and 2,
Preliminary and Final Design,  for engineering design services for the Civic Center Commons / West
Edge Project – referred to Finance Committee.
[CA] Consideration of B id #S-1-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering
Department, a nd Simo n Co ntractors, Che yenne, WY , f or the  20 17 Chi p Sea l, P art #2  Pr oject.
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $814,363.00). (#6719)
[CA] Annual report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements made at the Airport
Golf Cou rse by the  Ai rport G olf Clu b a s r equired b y Lease Agreem ent N o. 28 33.  M otion to
acknowledge receipt of the annual report (per Consent Agenda) carried.
Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, noted t he following was inadvertently not designated as a
Consent Agenda item and read the title of the agenda item:  Community Facilities Fees Report for
Fiscal Year 2016-2017.  Mayor Orr referred the item to Finance Committee.
Announcement was made that due to the Labor Day holiday on Monday, September 4, 2017,
regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instea d be held in t he M unicipal
Building, Room 122, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee
will meet Tuesday , September 5, 2017 a t 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet
Wednesday, September 6, 2017 at Noon.
Under other business, Jeff Dierksen discussed traffic issues on P into Lane; referenced a
petition he filed last fall regarding mitigation of traffic conditions in the area, and requested an
update on  wh ether WY DOT h ad b een contacted r egarding int erpretation b y pr evious City
engineering sta ff of  the City ’s authority  to change  the speed limi t to 25 m.p.h. in residential
neighborhoods.  Mr. Dierksen voiced concerns that conditions have deteriorated for years due to
development in the area increasing the traffic volume and speeding by drivers accessing the area.
Upon inquiry, Jim Voeller, advised he was unaware if WYDOT had been contacted; stated the City
has done tra ffic studies in th e neighborhood with law e nforcement involvement, and note d the
position of traffic engineer is no longer under the Engineering Department.  Discussion included:
Potential options to reduce speeding on Pinto Lane; street classification, history of development in
the area affecting traffic conditions, and state law and jurisdictional issues concerning changes to
speed limits in neighborhoods.
There being  no further  business to come before the g overning body , the meeting  was
officially adjourned at 7:03 p.m.
Submitted by,
Carol Intlekofer, MMC
City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
September 9, 2017