MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-09-11 | CLIP_ID: 617 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 617

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
September 11, 2017 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were: MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Ca se, Bryan Cook, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott Roybal, Dr. Ma rk 
Rinne, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Absent: Richard Joh nson.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, 
City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
  
 Mayor Orr called for a moment of silence in remembrance of the anniversary of the 
September 11, 2001 national tragedy. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr . Shanor, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Case and Mr. Roybal, Agenda Item # 16 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. 
Shanor recused himself from voting participation on the Consent Agenda items due to an affiliation 
with the State Land and Investment Board (Consent Agenda Item #22), and vacated Council 
Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Cook.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council Chambers. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of  the Governing Body on August 28 , 2017.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (voucher payable to himself) and vacated Council 
Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by Mr. 
White.  Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemecek,  Director of Public Works, provided information on past 
and current funding source for service s by Goat Green, LLC (vegetation management along Dry 
Creek and Crow Creek), and purpose of a professional services agreement with Tabitha Merkow 
(Fleet Maintenance personnel training).  Comment was made regarding future review of fund ing 
that may be available for goat grazing services.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of 
the governing body present  in Council Chambers .  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. 
Roybal returned to Council Chambers.   
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 5.6.2. 
PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Unified Development Code, changing the 
zoning classification from PUD Planned Unit Development to PUD Planned Unit Development 
for a portion of Lot 2, Block 1 of Buffalo Ridge Estates, 10th Filing, City of Ch eyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Sunflower Road, south of Sagebrush Ave).   
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Case.  Support was voiced for the development project planned for the property.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4198)  
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING –Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 5.1 of the Cheyenne Unified Development 
Code (UDC) to allow utility stations within the AG, AR, and AD zoning districts after an 
administrative use approval.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4199) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING –Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 1.4.4 and 5.1 of the Cheyenne Unified 
Development Code (UDC) to allow home occupations as a permitted use within the NB, CB, CBD, 
LI, and HI zoning districts.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by 
Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4200) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of the S½SE¼ Section 22, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Dell Range Boulevard, east of Griffith Avenue).  Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr . White.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present. (#4201) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County MR Medium -density 
Residential to MR Medium-density Residential for a portion of the S½SE¼ Section 22, Township 
14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and 
adjacent to Dell Range Boulevard, east of Griffith Avenue).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on  
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of 
the governing body present. (#4202) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending S ections 1.4.3 and 5.7.1 of the Cheyenne Unified 
Development Code (UDC) to clarify the definition of ‘through lot’ for accessory structure setback 
purposes.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on seco nd reading, seconded by Mr. Case .  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from A -1 – Agriculture and Rural 
Residential (County) to AR Agricultural Residential for all of Blocks 146, 147, 148 and 149, 
Inclusive, Interior Heights, Second Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming; along 
with all of those adjacent rights-of-way contained within the plat boundary (including all of those 
intervening 15' alleys and all of those intervening portions of Kelley Avenue, Gadds Avenue and 
Holmes Avenue); and the remaining one -half (1/2) of those adjacent rights -of-way as shown 
(including E.40' York Avenue, N.30' 12th Street, W.40' Talbot Avenue and S.30' 11th Street), City 
of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located to the northwest of the intersection of W. 
College Drive and Grand Harmony Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor 
– Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Repealing Chapter 5.32, Bingo and Pull Tabs, in its 
entirety; amending Chapter 5.04, Business Licenses Generally,  Section 5.04.030, Types of 
businesses, activities and events, and Chapter 5.08, Business License Fees, Section 5.08.050, 
Bingo an d pull tabs, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations; amending Chapter 9.08, 
Offenses Against Public Peace and Decency, Section 9.08.030, Gambling-Permitted if authorized 
by state law-Limitation, and repealing Chapter 9.08, Offenses Against Public Peace and Decency, 
Section 9.08.040, Violations by owner or occupant of premises where gambling conducted, of 
Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the addition of twenty -nine (29) structures and removal of 
two (2) structures in the Downtown Cheyenne Historic District from the Contributing Structures 
List maintained by the City’s Planning office.  Stephanie Lowe, Planning and Development office, 
provided an update on the status of communication with property owners whose structures are 
involved in either being added to or removed from the List.  Christina Bird, Chairperson, Cheyenne 
Historic Preservation Board, explained compliance with federal requirements relating to the “opt 
in” provision had been met, noting that property owners who have not “opted out” will have their 
properties automatically included on the List.  Amy Smith commented on a Downtown Cheyenne 
Historic District report with regard to classification of properties  and the contributing rating 
system.  She submitted a copy of her comments (on file with City Clerk’s office) and requested 
consideration by the governing  body to reclassify the building referred to as Bart’s F lea Market, 
owned by her parents, from C -2, Contributing, to NC -1, Noncontributing Nonintrusive.  She 
explained that “opting out”, which they have done,  from being included in the List  is different 
from how the building is classified .  Upon inquiry, Ms. Lowe provided information on the “opt 
in/opt out” process; noted the classification report has no real authority, and stated if the Smith’s 
decided in the future they would like to have the building added to the List they can request to do 
so.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.   Ms. 
Bird, upon inquiry provided further explanation of federal (Secretary of the Interior) standards 
regarding the “opt-out” provision.  Comment followed on the number of communication letters 
that have not yet been returned to Ms. Lowe by property owners, and additional communication 
efforts by staff.  Mr. Laybourn moved to postpone to September 25, 2017, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  
Upon inquiry, Ms. Lowe advised she was still waiting to hear from nine property owners and her 
most recent letters requested a response by August 31, 2017, and that the purpose of the resolution 
was not time sensitive.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing 
body present. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Interior 
Heights, Fourth Filing, a replat of all of Blocks 146, 147, 148 and 149, Inclusive, Interior Heights, 
Second Filing, City of Cheyenne,  Laramie County, Wyoming; along with all of those adjacent 
rights-of-way contained within the plat boundary (including all of those intervening 15' alleys and 
all of those intervening portions of Kelley Avenue, Gadds Avenue and Holmes Avenue); and the 
remaining one-half (1/2) of those adjacent rights-of-way as shown (including E.40' York Avenue, 
N.30' 12th Street, W.40' Talbot Avenue and S.30' 11th Street), City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located to the northwest of the intersection of W. College Dri ve and Grand Harmony 
Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Pershing Marketplace, 1st Filing, a replat o f all of Block 1 (Lots  1 thru 4, inclusive), and all of 
Block 2 (Lots 1 thru 6, inclusive), and all of those 20’ alley rights-of-way, adjacent to said Blocks 
1 and 2, and all of May Place (60’ R/W), adjacent to said Blocks 1 and 2, McCann Homesites, 
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection 
of E. Pershing Boulevard and N. College Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor 
– Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Mission 
Village, situated in a portion of the S½SE¼ of Section 22, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of 
the 6th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to Dell 
Range Boulevard, east of Griffith Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor  –  
Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Thanking the Cheyenne 150 th Anniversary Celebration Steering 
Committee – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Joining the City of Cheyenne to a Community -Wide Visioning and 
Planning Initiative – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Case, Dr. Rinne, Mr. 
Roybal, Mr. Shanor) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming State Loan 
and Investment Board for a $1.6 Million Loan from the Clean W ater State Revolving Fund for 
funding the Dry Creek Interceptor Rehabilitation and auth orizing the Board Director to sign all 
loan documents – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Cheyenne 
Firefighters Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters, for the purpose of 
clarifying the intent of Section 23, Working in a Higher Job Rank.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6725) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County School District Number One, 
Sunflower Ridge L3C, and the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, for drainage improvements, Buffalo 
Ridge Subdivision.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6726) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6457 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI 
Constructors of Wyoming LLC, for additions and renovations to the  Waste Transfer Station 
Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6457)  
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6498 between the City of Cheyenne and DHM 
Design Corporation to move funds from Task 4, Construction Administration, to Tasks 1 and 2,  
Preliminary and Final Design, for engineering design services for the Ci vic Center Commons / 
West Edge Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6498) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract 6628 between the City of Cheyenne and Pole 
Mountain Electric, Inc. for the Dell Range/Yellowstone Signal Upgrade Project. (2 011-2014 1% 
Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment to Contract No. 6630, Professional Services Agreement for Benefit 
Consulting Services between the City of Cheyenne and NOVO Benefits LLC (f/k/a Corp orate 
Benefits Consortium, LLC) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Memorandum of Understanding (Contract No. 6680) between the 
City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and Laramie County, Wyoming, to provide public 
transportation services to Laramie County Community College and for an area of Laramie County 
immediately adjacent to the City. (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
Approval of Appointment of City Officials:  Robert Briggs, Director of the Planning and 
Development Department ; Ronald Downey , City Tr easurer; Greg Hoggatt Sr. , Chief of the 
Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department, and Teresa Moore, Director of the Community Recreation 
and Events Department.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Orr who 
did not vote (Mayoral appointees).  Mayor Orr announced the oath of office for the new department 
directors would be administered tomorrow morning, September 12th, at 9:00 a.m. at the Cheyenne 
Public Safety Center and Council members, staff and the public were welcome to attend .  Mayor 
Orr introduced the new directors. 
[CA] Community Facilities Fees Report for Fiscal Year 2016 -2017.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. 
 Under other business: 
 
 Mr. Laybourn commented on a recent  situation in volving the City Engineer and his 
personal attorney; noted that word has been received from the FEMA Region 8 office that the cost/ 
benefit analysis (for the Civic Center Commons Project)  has met the standard , and requested an 
executive session of the governing body be scheduled in the near future to discuss affiliated 
personnel and legal matters.   Also under other business, Mr. White stated for the record that the 
word from FEMA proves no fraud by the City on the matter. 
 
 T.J. Kallas expressed student pedestrian safety concerns involving traffic at St. Mary’s 
School, particularly on O’Neil Street, and requested flashing and children playing signage be 
installed, and crosswalks around the school be painted.  Mayor Orr advised she would discuss the 
topic with staff. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:45 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 22, 2017 
 
 