MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-10-23 | CLIP_ID: 625 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 625

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
October 23, 2017 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Ca se, Bryan Cook,  Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott 
Roybal, Dr. Mark Rinne (arriving at 6:07 p.m.), Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Kylie 
Soden, Deputy City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Case and Mr. Roybal, Agenda Item # 20(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve remaining Conse nt Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna .  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.   
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of  the Governing Body on October 9, 2017.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict (business interest in voucher payable to Cowboy Dodge, 
Inc.) and vacated Council Chambers.   Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs as 
presented, seconded by Mr.  Case.  Upon inquiry, Ron Downey, City Treasurer , provided 
information available on vouchers payable to the following: Aircycle Corp. (machine for 
destroying and removing mercury from florescent light bulbs); All Traffic Data Services, Inc. 
(traffic counts survey for MPO); AVI Engineering (20th & Duff Crosswalk professional services); 
E/S3 Consultants, Inc. (ene rgy efficiency study at Ice & Events Center), and  Green House Data 
(discovery and recommendations for business continuity for disaster recovery).  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” -- all membe rs of the governing body  present in Council Chambers .  Following 
announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to Chambers.   
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of Section 9, all of the W½ Section 14, all of Section 15, a portion of Section 16, and all of Section 
21; Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located to 
the southeast of the intersection of E. College Drive and Avenue C).  Reporting for Public Services 
Committee, Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading with staff conditions #1 through 5, 
seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR Medium -Density Residential to 
CB Comm unity Business for Lot 4, Block 2, Moore -Haven Heights Addition, 3rd Filing, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located south of 8th Avenue west of Central Avenue).  Mr. Case moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from HR High-Density Residential to CB 
Community Business for Lot 3, Lot 4, and the W 22' of Lot 2, Block 745, Stanfield Addition; and 
Lots 1, 2, & 5, Block 1, Stanfield Addition, 3rd Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west of the 
intersection of Deming Dr ive and Walterscheid Boulevard ).  Mr. Case moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon inquiry, Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development  
Department, provided information on  a proposed Greenway path in the area, noting it will not  
affect the parcel.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Vacating the eastern one-half of the 16-foot wide alley 
located west of House Avenue, south of Evans Avenue, adjacent to Lots 1, 2, 3, 12, 13 and 14 of 
Block 2, Pershing Heights Addition, Second Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.  
Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna .  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from Swan Ranch Rail 
Park Planned Unit De velopment to Light Industrial for a portion of Lots 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15, 
Block 2 of the Swan Ranch Rail Park Eleventh Filing Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located 
north of Tundra Drive, south of  W. Wallick Road a nd west of Clear Creek Parkway).  Mr. C ase 
moved to approve on second reading  with staff condition #1 , seconded by Mr.  White.  Upon 
inquiry, Eric Hammer, Planning and Development  Department, confirmed that condition #1 
rectifies the possibility of the land having two different zoning designations.   Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 8.40, Food and 
Food Service Establishments, Title 8, Health and Safety, of the code o f the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Johnson and Mr. White) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 
Swan Ranch Rail Park, Eleventh Filing Subdivision, a replat of Lo ts 1 through  10, Block 1 and 
Lots 1 through 17, Block 2 of the Swan Ranch Rail Park Eighth Filing and being situated in 
portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23 and 27, Township 13 north, Range 67 west of the 6th Principal 
Meridian, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Tundra Drive, south of  
W. Wallick Road and west of Clear Creek Pa rkway).  Mr. Case moved to adopt  with Planning 
Commission conditions #1 and 2, seconded by Mr. C ook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#5886) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the ‘201 Agreement’ for development of a new 
office building to be served by an on -site septic system located generally within Township 14, 
Range 66, Section 25, Laramie County, Wyoming (s outh of Dell Range Blvd. at its intersection 
with US 30).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5887) 
 
 [CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2017 budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16-4-112 & 16 -4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Luna) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with W.S. §15 -1-402 for the City -initiated 
annexation of a portion of the S½ of Section 35, and a portion of the SW¼ of Section 36, T14N, 
R67W, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Old Happy Jack Road and Happy Jack Road, 
west of I-80) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 Preliminary Plat for Whitney Ranch, 1st Filing, a replat of all of Tracts 31 and 32 and that 
portion of James Drive intervening; and a portion of Tract 39, Hill Heights Addition, situate in 
Section 23, Township 14 North, Range 66 West, 6th P.M., County of Laramie, State of Wyoming 
(located east of and adjacent to Van Buren Avenue, north of Dell Range Boulevard).  Mr. Case 
moved to acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve with staff 
condition #1, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Upon inquiry, Er ic Hammer, Planning and Development  
Department, explained that staff condition #1 is related to the James Place right-of-way, noting the 
developer believes it should be 60 ft. wide at that location. He advised a traffic study will determine 
the correct width. Mr. Hammer also provided information on the proposed 2nd Filing for Whitney 
Ranch to the north, which  will be unusually shaped due to topography.   Brad Emmons, AVI 
Engineering, agent for the developer, explained the master plan is for about 600 acres and all areas 
are being reviewed concurrently, and stated arterial and collector roads are currently the only ones 
that have been laid out. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 Conditional Approval of a Concept Preliminary Plat for the Sweetgrass Subdivision, 
consisting of unplatted lands being all of the SE ¼ SE ¼ Section 10, S ½ S ½ W ½ Section 11, S 
½ Section 14, all of Section 15, a portion of Section 16, and all of Section 21; Township 13 North, 
Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming  (located south of College Drive and 
east of Avenue C).  Mr. Case moved to acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation 
of conditional approval with cond itions #1 and 2, seconded by Dr. Rinne.   Mr. Case moved to 
amend by revised Concept Preliminary Plat dated October 20, 2017 which satisfies condition #2, 
seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” -  all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement for drafting and negotiation of Charter Communications 
Cable Franchise renewal an d CenturyLink Cable Television Franchise agreements with River 
Oaks Communications Corporation.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed 
$51,635.00).  (#6743) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and 
the United States Secret Service for Colorado and Wyom ing Financial Crimes Task Force – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
State of Wyoming, Office of Homeland Security, for the purchase of one trailer mounted mobile 
surveillance platform and allowable accessories – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 [CA] Employment Agreement between the C ity of Cheyenne, through the Cheyenne Police 
Department, and Jessica Fritz for c rime victim assistance services – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, through the Cheyenne Police 
Department, and Leslie Bur ch for c rime victim assistance services – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, through the Cheyenne Police 
Department, and Brenda Johnson for c rime victim assistance services – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI to develop the 
Evers Blvd. Reconstruction design – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Downtown 
Development Authority to establish the responsibilities of how and processes by which the Fiscal 
Year 2017-2018 funds are to be used in the Cheyenne central business district – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of  Cheyenne and Collins Engineers, 
Inc., for Christensen Road constructability review services – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 [CA] Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 6162 between the City of Cheyenne, through the 
Information Technology Division, and Century Link Sales Solution, Inc. for modification to the 
City’s Metro Ethernet Network servicing outlying offices – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S-2-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works 
Department, and Reiman  Corp., Cheyenne, WY, for the Per shing and Duff Crosswalk Project  
(2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to accept the bid 
from Reiman Corp., Cheyenne, WY, in an a mount not to exceed $76,300.50, seconded by Mr.  
White.  Discussion followed and included: project importance; Mayor’s Council for People with 
Disabilities’ involvement with the project; traffic increases overall throughout the City and  
construction time frame for similar projects.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  (#6744) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -7-18 for furnishing ice control product for the Public Works 
Department (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-8-18 for furnishing one in-stock fire apparatus for the Cheyenne 
Fire and Rescue Department – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Satellite Manufacturing Permit application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Chronicles 
Distilling, LLC, d/b/a Chronicles Distilling, 1506 T homes Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.   Mr. 
Luna moved to approve contingent upon City inspections and submittal of proof of the Wyoming 
Liquor Division’s manufacturing license, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Aaron Lesher, 
co-applicant, explained the business venture is fully funded through himself and his brother, and 
that distribution of their product will mainly be done through the Wyoming Liquor Division.  Mr. 
Lesher stated that they are working with City and state entities to be come fully compliant with 
requirements for the establishment, and welcomed Council members to contact them at any time 
with any questions.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 Announcement was made of the appointments of Alexis Arp, Maggie Black, McCoy Bush, 
Ashen Doty, Raegan Downham, Dylan Fertig, Julia Horst, Keiran Loughran, Emily Lucero, 
Nickolas Metheny, Kaylee Sanchez, Kenitra Shanks, Dominick Singleton and Garrett Vickery to 
the 2017-18 Mayor’s Youth Council (to be confirmed November 13, 2017).  
 Under other business: 
 
Rev. Rick Veit and Ed Boenish, representing Compassionate Cheyenne, explained  the 
vision and mission of the program and how it began, stating that the general goal is to nurture the 
growth of compassion in the community.  Rev. Veit and Mr. Boenish advised there is an 
international Compassion Charter which will involve a future resolution to have Cheyenne become 
a compassionate City.  It was noted there will be a public community forum on compassion at the 
library.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Boenish stated there is no correlation between being a sanctuary City 
and a compassionate City.  Discussion followed and included local and national goals a nd 
sanctuary Cities/states.  Upon inquiry as to whether the upcoming resolution rela ted to 
Compassionate Cheyenne will be impacted by state mandates on sanctuary rules , Sylvia Hackl, 
City Attorney, expressed her belief that supporting the resolution will not countermand any rules 
or anything otherwise set forth by the state. 
 
Mr. Johnson commented on the dollar amount of a  voucher payable to Affordable Lawn 
Care & Maintenance LLC that was presented for paymen t at the Council meeting on October 9, 
2017 for nuisance abatement services for 7 properties. 
 
Mr. Roybal spoke in reference to a project he is interested in involving repairing the clocks 
on the Spiker parking garage. He stated he would like to move forward with receiving a price on 
the cost for the project with Mayor Orr advising her office will assist in obtaining quotes. 
 
Mr. Case advised he has received several concerns regarding an intersection at Cheshire 
Drive and Foxcroft Drive, and he would like research conducted for a solution for traffic issues in 
the area. 
 
Mr. Case moved, pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16 -4-405 (a)(ii) and (iii), to meet in executive 
session for the purpose of receiving a legal briefing from the City Attorney on a matter concerning 
litigation to which the governing body may be a party or proposed litigation to which the governing 
body may be a party, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mayor Orr advised the motion was not debatable.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body.  Mayor Orr stated the motion 
to move into executive session for the purpose stated by Councilman Case carried; the executive 
session would be held in the City Council Administrative Office and would not be open to the 
public.  In addition to members o f the governing body, Mayor Orr announced the City Attorney , 
Assistant City Attorney (Ms. McCoy) and Deputy City Clerk would attend the executive session, 
and following the executive session further action by the governing body would not be taken, 
therefore, the regular meeting of the governing body would be officially adjourned following 
closure of the executive session.  The governing body vacated Council Chambers at 6:46 p.m. to 
meet in executive session. 
  
The meeting was officially adjourned at 7:28 p.m. following closure of the executive 
session. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kylie Soden 
        Deputy City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  November 3, 2017 
 
 