MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2017-11-27 | CLIP_ID: 629 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 629

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
November 27, 2017 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.   Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Ca se, Bryan Cook,  Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott 
Roybal, Dr. Mark Rinne, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, 
and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Mayor Orr announced that agenda item #18 (Resolution) was being removed at the request 
of the sponsors. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Cook, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Roybal and Mr. Johnson , Agenda Item #20(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. 
Luna moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of  the Governing Body on November 13, 2017.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve payment  of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  
Inquiry was made regarding vouchers payable to: Gregory Hoggatt (employee moving expenses); 
Affordable Lawn & Tree Care (nuisance property abatements), Brown Shoe Fit (employee safety 
boots); Burke Moving & Storage (Metropolitan Planning Organization’s office moving expenses); 
Cheyenne Regional Medical Center (sexual assault nurse exams); Cheyenne Fence Company 
(accident involving fence damage); Clean Harbors Environmental Services (household hazardous 
waste disposal fees); Wyoming Business Council (payment associated with grant for Swan Ranch), 
and Service Pro of Cheyenne  (water damage clean -up).  Providing information available on the 
vouchers of interest were:  Mayor Orr; Ron Downey, City Treasurer; Vicki Nemecek, Director of 
Public Works; Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of Section 9, all of the W½ Section 14, all of Section 15, a portion of Section 16, and all of Section 
21; Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located to  
the southeast of the intersection of E. College Drive and Avenue C) (postponed from 11/13/2017).  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Mr. Roybal moved to postpone to December 11, 2017 at the request of 
the developer, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 8.40, Food and 
Food Service Establishments, Title 8, Health and Safety, of the code o f the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4211) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 1.12.010, Findings of fact, and 
amending Section 1.12.020, Filing of plats and maps, of Chapter 1.12, Datum Plane, of Title 1, 
General Provisions, of the code of the city of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending various sections of Title 10, Vehicles  and 
Traffic, of the code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Swan Ranch Rail Park, Twelfth Filing, a plat of land being situated in portions of the NE¼ NE¼ 
of Section 28, and the NW¼, NW¼ of Section 27, T13N, R67W of the 6 th Principal Meridian, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located to the north of the intersection of Berwick Drive and Tundra 
Drive).  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt with staff conditions #1 & 2, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#5890) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Swan Ranch Rail Park, Thirteenth Filing, a plat of land being situated in a portion of Section 22, 
Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Laram ie County, Wyoming 
(located to the west of and adjacent to Berwick D rive, south of W. Wallick Road).  Mr. Roybal 
moved to adopt with staff condition #1, seconded by Mr . Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. (#5891) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Adopting the Converse Dell Range Intersection Traffic Safety Plan and 
the Converse Avenue 35% Design Plan.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Case.  
Appreciation was expressed to M etropolitan Planning Office (MPO) staff  for providing driving 
scenario information.  Comment was made on following through with various project plans acted 
upon by the governing body; acknowledging receipt vs. adopting the plans, and accountability of 
the governing body relative to approving plans.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by striking the word 
“adopting” and inserting “ acknowledging receipt ” of the plans and making conforming 
amendments through out the rest of the text , seconded by Mr. Johnson.   Tom Mason, MPO  
Director, explained the different levels of action (i.e. approving, adopting and acknowledging 
receipt) that can be taken on plans and encouraged Council to adopt the plans to provide staff with 
guidance to move forward with finding any funding opportunities for the project.  Discussion 
followed on previous plans, such as the Downtown Parking Study, in which the governing body 
acknowledged receipt of the study vs . adoption; inactivity or non -implementation of plans, and 
governing body’s potential accountability for plan contents.  Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City 
Clerk, stated it was her recollection that the Downtown Parking Study resolution was 
acknowledged by receipt, and noted some recommendations of the study are in process .  
Discussion continued on the definition and implication of “acknowledging receipt” vs. “adopting”.  
Motion to amend carried .  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   Main motion as 
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#5892) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming’s application for a Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Grant for dugout roof replacement and concrete and masonry block 
repair at the Cheyenne Junior League Complex.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5893) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing a one time payment to full -time and permanent part -time 
employees of the City of Cheyenne (excluding the Firefighters Union Local No. 279 and 
employees of the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities) in recognition of their outstandi ng efforts.  
Stephanie Lowe, President, Cheyenne Public Employees Association  (CPEA), thanked the 
governing body for supporting the resolution.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Luna moved to amend by increasing the one-time payment 
from 10% to 14% of the overage funds from the 2017 Fiscal Year budget, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  
Discussion included:  A ddressing City employee pay inequities;  prior employee bonuses;  
employee incentives and rewards related to controlling budget expenditures; future policy 
regarding employee bonuses and retaining and focusing on the initial 10% allocation; lack of prior 
communication by CPEA regarding its  recommendation of 14% that was proposed and 
recommended for approval at the Finance Committee; employee criteria  in receiving the bonus; 
employee increased out -of-pocket expenses due to new  health insurance provider, and City vs . 
employee FICA tax burden expense .  During discussion and u pon inquiry, Ron Downey , City 
Treasurer, explained the  employee inclusion requirements to be eligible for the bonus  and 
reviewed four options involving the percentage bonus amount (10% vs. 14%) relative to gross/net 
amounts, including tax expense amounts; Mayor Orr verified that Fire Union employees would 
not be included in the bonus payment  and advised the proposed 14% increase would assist with 
holding employees harmless relative to the required tax deduction , and Sylvia Hackl, City 
Attorney, and Fire Chief Greg Hoggatt provided information on terms of the current Fire Union 
collective labor agreement.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr.  Johnson, Mr. Laybourn 
and Mayor Orr.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor 
and Mr. White.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. (#5894) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the 
amount of $58,535.43 pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16 -4-502 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Luna) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing a one-time payment to each member of the bargaining unit 
of Cheyenne Firefighters Local Union Number 279 in settlement of the grievance filed by the 
Union against the City concerning health insurance benefits – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Shanor) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Declaring opposition to the elimination or reduction of the Federal 
Historic Preservation Tax Incentives Program (Sponsors - Mr. Roybal and Mr. White).  Resolution 
was withdrawn from the agenda at the request of the sponsors e arlier in the meeting.  [Refer to 
other business for additional information] 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Collins Engineers, 
Inc., for Christensen Road cons tructability review services  (postponed from 11/13/2017).   Ben 
Rowland, City Attorney’s office, spoke on the purpose of the agreement generally  and reviewed 
proposed changes and cost saving alternatives to certain Exhibit pages related to the agreement.  
He explained options for approval of additional services included in proposed Exhibit changes , 
and the proposed revision to the compensation schedule .  Tom Mason, Director, Metropolitan 
Planning Office (MPO), questioned a modification change contained in the alternatives relative to 
the Pershing and Christensen intersection being a T-design vs. 4 legged intersection.  John Volk 
reviewed committee representation, which included himself, and background of the committee’s 
and City staff review of plans submitted in response to the two Requests for Proposals issued for 
the project. He discussed plans submitted by Benchmark that were unsigned and unstamped; need 
for a construction management firm’s involvement and support for the contra ct with Collins 
Engineers with the alternatives; length of time for design plans to be completed; design costs, and 
other Benchmark projects involving City projects .  Jennifer Merrill, speaking on behalf of four 
property owners located at the end of the overpass near the bridge, discussed Benchmark’s plans, 
which they communicated to the homeowners,  to utilize Tate Road as the ir point of access.  She 
explained the types of businesses herself and the other property owners have and the need for 
sufficient and safe road width access  involving various equipment types ; advised of an alternate 
option they proposed involving land donation to provide for access further down the road , with 
road maintenance by the homeowners as the county will not be maintaining; cost savings that could 
be realized by their proposal, and timeliness of awarding bids to begin the project relative to cost.  
Mr. Rowland clarified that wording contained in Exhibit A -8, under basic services, encompassed 
the design changes alluded to by Ms.  Merrill.  Mr. Luna reported there was no recommendation 
on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr . Roybal.  
Mr. Shanor moved to amend, seconded by Mr. Case, by deleting the wording contained in item #6 
on page Exhibi t A-8 and inserting the wording as a new item #7 on page Exhibit A -9; amend 
wording on page Exhibit A -9 (last paragraph of subsection A -5, A.5.1, 5.1.1) to read “The 
Additional Services shall be performed only if authorized in writing by the City prior to their 
performance.  Consultant shall start activity only upon written approval of the City.  In order to 
provide adequate separation of responsibilities such that no one person controls all phases of a 
transaction involving expenditure of additional funds, additional signatures of the Mayor, the City 
Council President or his or her designee, and the City Engineering Department’s project manager 
will be required for approval of each Additional Service requested by the City.” and amend Exhibit 
B and C per red -lined conforming amendments (as previously explained by Mr. Rowland and 
included in the proposed substitute documentation) with regard to  changes to the Compensation 
Schedule and Project Schedule.  Explanation was provided on the intent of the changes involving 
adjustment to the UPRR permit process item (new #7 on page Exhibit A -9), guaranteed vs . not 
guaranteed contract value in the Compen sation Schedule, and extension of time frame in the 
Project Schedule.  Upon inquiry, Jim Voeller, City Engineer,  and Mr. Rowland confirmed they 
had reviewed and had no objections to the proposed amendments.  Upon inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, 
City Attorney, provided information on the meaning of stamped plans and an upcoming meeting 
with Benchmark.  Mr. Case commented for the record that it was his understanding that under the 
project descript ion on page Exhibit A-1, item #4, the project as it will go out to bid , and the 
drawings, will include a modern roundabout at E. Pershing and Christensen, and noted to go 
outside that scope would require approval by the mayor, a Council member and engineering staff.  
Mayor Orr agreed with Mr. Case’s statement.  Mr. Rowland advised that steady progress has been 
made with Benchmark.  Upon inquiry, Mark Escobedo, City Engineer ’s office, confirmed he is 
satisfied with the options provided and he didn’t believe anything would need to be added  to the 
bid and that flexibility for bid alternate options would be available based upon funding.  Comments 
followed in support of the agreement and moving forward with the project ; roundabout design; 
access proposed by the property owners off Tate Road, and issuing the bid soon.  Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Upon inquiry regarding Mr. Mason’s 
question regarding a T -intersection vs. a roundabout, Mayor Orr advised Exhibit A -1, item #4, 
which references a modern roundabout, answered the question.  Main motion as amended carried.  
Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”. 
(#6759) 
 
[CA] Contract for Services between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and the 
Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for the weekender community 
service program (fund ing through Joint Powers Board).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.    
(#6760) 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department, 
and State of Wyoming, Office of Homeland Security, for the purposes of administering Regional 
Emergency Response Team #7 (RERT #7).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6761) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement for Municipal Finance  Counsel Services between the 
City of Cheyenne and Kutak Rock, LLP – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification No. 8 to Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne, 
Community Recreation and Events Department, and RECCO Inc., d/b/a Five-R Company, for the 
Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Project, to increase the Guaranteed Maximum Price.  Mr. Luna moved 
to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Upon inquiry, Jason Sanchez, Community Recreation and 
Events, explained that modification costs were being covered by fundraising efforts of the Friends 
of the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Foundation.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#6219) 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 6 to Contract No. 4563 between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works 
Department, and Wyoming Cattle Co., LLC, for grazing on the Belvoir Ranch (revenue to City).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#4563) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6654 between the City of Cheyenne, 1% 
Construction Division, and Simon Contractors, to extend the completion date for the 20 17 City 
Overlay, Part 1 Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6654) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -3-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events Department, and Wasatch Railroad Contractors for the restoration of Big 
Boy 4004 Holiday Park Project (State Loan and Investment Board grant funds ).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $355,337.50). (#6762) 
 
 Under other business:  
 
 Frank Cole expressed concern with retaining Converse Avenue as a two lane road relative 
to the Converse Dell Range Intersection Traffic Safety Plan acted upon during the meeting, noting 
traffic volumes and encouraging further review prior to any future bidding for the project.   
 
 Jeff Dierksen, discussed traffic concerns on Pinto Lane , specifically traffic volum e and 
speed limits in the area; referenced a petition he submitted a year ago, and requested action from 
the governing body in mitigating concerns .  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, provided 
information on a proposed written response she was preparing to Mr. Dierksen, and c orridor and 
traffic studies that had been conducted , which doesn’t warrant any change in reducing the speed 
limit.  Comments were made on responding to Mr. Dierksen’s concerns and the petition; traffic 
planning; due diligence and studies that have been conducted; incr ease in speed limits in certain 
neighborhoods pursuant to Engineering review and state law; correlating problems with utilization 
of speed strips and bumps, and traffic and speed related issues in other residential neighborhoods. 
 
 Mr. Johnson stated he had been contacted by constituents as to why there are two police 
officers present during traffic stops.  In response, Police Chief Brian Kozak explained usually there 
is only one officer on routine stops but that often times a second officer is requested to assist or is 
in the area and stops to offer assistance. 
 
 Mr. White provided information on agenda item #18(a) (Resolution declaring opposition 
to the elimination or reduction of the Federal Historic Preservation Tax Incentives Program) and 
the reason for requesting the resolution be withdrawn from the agenda, which is due to timeliness 
of action anticipated on the proposed tax reform bill at the national level which may affect program 
funding.  He commented on past program benefits available to developers  investing in historic 
downtown properties, and expressed reduction of program funding will increase obstacles related 
to revitalizing downtown.  He encouraged those who have concerns to contact their Wyoming 
congressional delegation. 
  
 Mr. Case expressed appreciation to Public Works for finding an innovative and inexpensive 
solution to a curb cut issue at the corner Continental Drive and Meadow Drive. 
   
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeti ng was 
officially adjourned at 7:52 p.m. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 7, 2017 
 
 