MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-01-08 | CLIP_ID: 635 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 635

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 8, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Ca se, Bryan Cook,  Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott 
Roybal, Dr. Mark Rinne, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, 
and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 RECOGNITION OF DICKY SHANOR FOR HIS SERVICE AS CITY COUNCIL 
PRESIDENT FOR 2017.   Mayor Orr expressed appreciation to Mr. Shanor for his service as 
Council President in 2017 and presented him with a gavel plaque.  Mr. Shanor briefly reflected on 
the past year generally and thanked his family, co-elected officials and City staff for their support. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on t he agenda.)   Carol Intlekofer , City Clerk,  advised that Item #28(a) was 
inadvertently placed on the Consent Agenda  and as the item is an announcement she would be 
reading the item into  the record.  Mr. Luna moved to approve , seconded by Mr. White. Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of  the Governing Body on December 20, 2017.   Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by Mr . Cook.  
Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, provided information on a voucher payable 
to Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates , which  was postponed for action at the December 2 0, 2017  
Council meeting, stating services were provided in conjunction with a building remodel project to 
accommodate moving municipal court into the municipal building.  She explained funding for the 
project (6th Penny Sales Tax); anticipated future contract to come before the governing body, and 
emergency procurement procedures that were followed to meet the timeline to accommodate 
moving municipal court. Concern w as expressed over the process  of paying for professional 
services of this type (under t he $35,000 threshold) without a contract approved by the governing 
body when overall services to the same vendor related to a project will exceed that amount; what 
constitutes an  emergency situation , and further review of the process.  Mayor Orr provided 
information on the temporary housing of municipal court within the municipal building due to the 
building not being financially feasible as a permanent court location due to parking and ADA 
issues, and, in response to inquiry, stated a traffic/parking analysis was not conducted prior to the 
court moving into the building as funding was not available . Motion to approve carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a Public Hearing to determine whether compliance of a nnexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exists for all of Tracts 31 and 32 and that 
portion of James Drive intervening; and a portion of Tract 39, Hill Heights Addition; and adjacent 
portions of Gysel Place and Van Buren Ave.; situated i n Section 23, Township 14 North, Range 
66 West of the 6 th P.M., County of Laramie, State of Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to 
Van Buren Avenue, north of Dell Range Boulevard).   Eric Hammer, Planning and Development 
office, provided information on th e property requested by the landowner to be annexed , and 
reviewed requirements of and compliance with annexation conditions contained in state statutes.   
Upon inquiry, Mr. Hammer advised there have been several phone calls received from individuals 
requesting information  on the proposed annexation  but no formal comment filings have been 
submitted.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the public hearing having 
been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of Section 9, all of the W½ Section 14, all of Section 15, a portion of Section 16, and all of Section 
21; Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located to  
the southeast of the intersection of E. College Drive and Avenue C) (postponed from 12/20/2017).  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Roybal moved to postpone to January 22, 2018 at the request of staff, 
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
  
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenn e 
Unified Development Code (UDC),  amending Section 1.4.4.f., Industrial Use definition, of the 
UDC to clarify what land uses are subject to the Moderate Industrial and the Industrial use 
categories.  Susanna Montana, Planning and Development Department,  provided information in 
response to comments made and questions raised during the December 20, 2017 City Council and 
January 3, 2018  Public Services Committee meeting s, stating that concerns over where 
impoundment yards would be allowed have been further clarified in a proposed substitute  
ordinance dated January 8, 2018 .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on thir d and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated January 2, 2018, seconded 
by Mr. Case.  Motion to amend failed. Voting “no” – all members of the governing body.  Mr. 
Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated January 8, 2018, seconded by Mr. Cook. Upon inquiry, 
Ms. Montana explained the zoning category for downtown is CBD (Central Business District) and 
that impoundment lots would not be allowed in that category, and clarified where changes would 
be made in UDC sections regarding the new wording relating to impoundment yards. Motion to 
amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main m otion as amended 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4214) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, all of 
Tracts 31 and 32 and that portion of James Drive intervening; and a portion of Tract 39, Hill 
Heights Addition; and adjacent portions of Gysel Place and Van Buren Ave.; situated in Section 
23, Township 14 North, Range 66 West, of the 6th P.M., County of Laramie, State of Wyoming 
(located east of and adjacent to Van Buren Avenue, north of Dell Range Boulevard – referred to 
Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultural Residential 
to MR Medium-density Residential and MUB Mixed-use Business Emphasis for all of Tracts 31 
and 32; and a portion of Tract 39, Hill Heights Addition; situated in Section 23, Township 14  
North, Range 66 West, of the 6th P.M., County of Laramie, State of Wyoming (located east of and 
adjacent to Van Buren Avenue,  north of Dell Range Boulevard) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Vacating the 16 -foot alley situated in Block 329, 
Original City, and Federal Court located in Block 329, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Vacating that portion of the 16-foot alley right-of-way 
lying east of the Burlington Northern Railroad Spur Track right-of-way in Block 412, adjacent to 
Lots 1 thru 8, and 16 thru 22, Block 412, Original City, City of Ch eyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Sections 1.4.4.a and c, Section 5.1, Table 5 -1, 
Section 5.7.5, and Table 7-10 of the UDC to rename and clarify the definition for group dwelling, 
to combine and clarify the definitions for adult care – assisted living and adult care – nursing home 
land uses, combining assisted living facilities, nursing homes and group housing for specific use 
standards, clarifying where assisted living/nursing homes would be permitted, and adding 
residential and nonresidential zoning districts where group housing would be allowed as a 
conditional use – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds.  Reporting 
for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. White moved to 
amend by substitute dated December 20, 2017, seconded by Mr.  Luna. Motion to amend carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#5903) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s continuing participation in the Stat e 
Small Business Credit Initiative (‘SSBCI’) and Wyoming Smart Capital Network (‘WSCN’) 
Program; approving program changes through an amendment to the services agreement, including 
geographic boundaries, board, and the Credit Guaranty and Seed Capital Netw ork Program, and 
retaining the majority of the original ‘SSBCI’ rules as modified by the ‘WSCN’.   Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5904) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Pershing Marketplace, 2nd Filing, a replat of all of Lot 1, Block 1, Pershing Marketplace, 1st 
Filing, situated in Section 34, T.14N., R.66W., 6th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of N. College Drive and E. Pershing 
Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Cheyenne Hills Church Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a replat of a portion of Lot 1 Block 1 of Cheyenne 
Hills Church Subdivision being situated in a portion of the N½ NE¼ of Section 25, Township 14 
North, Range 66 West, of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south 
of and adjacent to US Highwa y 30, west of Christensen Roa d) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Treadway Subdivision, a replat of Tracts 1, 2, 3 & 4, Ultrea Subdivision, situated in Section 8, 
T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to W. Allison 
Road, east of Walterscheid Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute State Historic 
Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) grant agree ments for three 2018 CLG 
grants – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Announcing the City of Cheyenne’s intent to expend funds to enhance 
the Depot Plaza by constructing a water feature for economic development purposes, to include a 
historically important statue – referred to Finance committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Case, Mr. Laybourn 
and Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the Wyoming Region 7 Hazard Mitigation Plan for the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] County Preliminary Plat of Hawk’s Landing Sub division, a replat of a portion of Capitol 
Tracts, Tract 8 being situated in a portion of the NE¼ NW¼, Section 18, T13N, R66W, of the 6th 
Principal Meridian, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to York Avenue, 
south of College Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
  
 [CA] Service Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events 
Department, and Wyoming Beverage, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for non -alcoholic beverage 
concessions for the Ice and Events Center.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to 
exceed $50,439.00 annually). (#6774) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and 
Top-Flight Maintenance, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the provision of cleaning services fo r th e 
Cheyenne Public Safety Center.  Motion (pe r Consent Agenda) carried  (amount not to exceed 
$4,203.25 per month). (#6775) 
 
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of 
Transportation for epoxy striping (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives Division, and State of 
Wyoming, Department of Family Services, for kinship advocacy servic es for displaced, at -risk 
youth – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-12-18 for furnishing transit vehicle wraps for the Transit Division, 
and authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a Professional Services Agreement between 
the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, an d Wyoming Signs, LLC, Mills, Wyoming, in 
conjunction with the bid – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -15-18 for furnishing one new in -stock 71-passenger bus for the 
Community Recreation and Events Department, Latchkey Division (2 015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of RFP #13 -18 to provide a play system and safety surfacing in Holliday 
Park, and authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a Professional Services Agreement 
between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events Department, and Great Western 
Park and Playground, Inc., Wellsville, Utah, in conjunction with the RFP (Community 
Development Block Grant funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6552 between the City of Cheyenne and HDR, 
Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for additional design modifications, adjustment to construction 
engineering services, and any required additional services for the Prairie Avenue and Frontier Mall 
Intersection Improvements Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6066 between the City of Cheyenne and 
BenchMark Engineers, P.C., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for services in connection with the Christensen 
Road Overpass and Corridor Project (1% Specific Pu rpose Sales and Use Tax) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King Holiday on Monday, January 
15, 2018, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the 
Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 104, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows:  Finance 
Committee will meet Tuesday, January 16, 2018 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will 
meet Wednesday, January 17, 2018 at Noon. 
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Shawn Alexander express ed concern over burglar alarm  permitting and false alarm fees,  
and requested review of false alarm provisions. 
 
 Upon request by Mr. Johnson regarding status of the vacant Greenway Coordinator staff 
position, Mayor Orr explained the position will be opened for applications soon. 
 
 Mr. Johnson inquired as to the available number of cemetery spaces in City-owned 
cemeteries.  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised she would research with Cemetery grounds staff 
and provide information to the governing body. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:44 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 19, 2018 