MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-02-26 | CLIP_ID: 642 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 642

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 26, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.   Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott Roybal, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Absent – Bryan Cook.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City 
Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  Mayor Orr recognized members of Boy Scout Troop #150 
who were present at the meeting and who led the pledge of allegiance. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Luna moved to approve the Consent Agenda, seconded by 
Mr. Johnson.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 12, 2018.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on February 16, 2018.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for renewal applications 
for existing City liquor licenses and permits (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill 
licenses and microbrewery and satellite distillery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  There 
being no comments or input and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed 
the hearing and referred the applications to Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 10.52.200, Recreational vehic le, 
trailer-defined – Parking permitted in certain places, of Chapter 10.52, Stopping, Standing and 
Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Mr. Case, as sponsor of the ordinance, requested the it em be withdrawn from the 
agenda, citing the need to further review the topic.  Following query to members of the governing 
body and with no objection being voiced, Mayor Orr announced the item was being withdrawn 
from the agenda. 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 1.16.050, Off -Site improvements – 
Requirements, of Chapter 1.16, Annexation and Infrastructure Improvements, of Title 1, General 
Provisions, of the code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson) 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the Continuing Education Program offered by the Wyoming 
Association of Municipalities and Local Technical Services a/k/a Leadership Training Services, 
and authorizing the execution of an amended Contract for Services regarding the provision of such 
services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (Res #5918/Cont #6790) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to approve and file the Wyoming 
Division of Victim Services funding application State Fiscal Year 2019 and 2020, July 1, 2018 to 
June 30, 2020 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] Sweetgrass 1st Filing Preliminary Plat Subdivision consisting of unplatted lands situated 
in the NW¼ of Section 16 Township 13 North, Range 66 W est, 6th P.M., City of Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) to acknowledge Planning 
Commission’s recommendation to approve carried. 
 
[CA] Temporary Construction Easement Agreement with George M. Zak and Leslie S. Zak, for 
the deposit of spoil dirt in conjunction with the Christensen Road Railroad Overpass and Corridor 
Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6791) 
 
[CA] City of Cheyenne City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Christensen Road Right-of-Way Purchase 
Agreement with Holly L. Bruegman (1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $14,131.00). (#6792) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County, City of Cheyenne and the Board 
of Public Utilities for the purpose of purchasing a small unmanned aerial system and necessary 
software through the Cheyenne/Laramie County Geographic Information Systems Co operative, 
and providing rules for governing the operation of the system – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Trihydro Corporation, 
Laramie, Wyoming, for Happy Jack Landfill environmental m onitoring services. (Solid Waste 
fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Purchase Agreement and Settlement and Release of All Claims between the City of 
Cheyenne and Mary Rose Ramirez for acquisition of real property located at 2247 East 19th Street, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the Pershing Boulevard/Converse Avenue/19th Street 
Roundabout Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of RFP-14-18 for the new site of the City of Cheyenne Municipal Court (1% 
Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax).  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, reviewed the 
history of the May 2017 1% Specific Purpose ballot question, which voters approved for funding 
the new Municipal Court project; utilization of outside consultant services, pursuant to a Request 
for Proposals (RFP) process, to temporarily relocate the Court to the Municipal Building; issuance 
of an RFP requesting proposals for a new Municipal Court site; elements contained in the RF P, 
and evaluation criteria utilized by a consultant and the City’s project team in reviewing site 
proposals.  She noted six proposals were received for the following locations:  Carey  Building 
(f/k/a Fowler’s and Z’s building) at 308 W. 17th St. (2 proposals); Hynds Building at 1602 Capitol 
Avenue; Mayflower Building at 112 West 17 th Street; Teton Building at 1803 Capitol Avenue 
(which proposal was subsequently withdrawn), and a vacant lot at 18 th Street/Bent and O’Neil 
Avenues.  She explained the criteria  (i.e. same criteria used for all RFP proposals received)  
reviewed by the project team in evaluating a site adjacent to or upon the grounds of the Municipal 
Building complex, 2101 O’Neil Avenue,  which resulted in the team not recommending the site, 
noting the site would not meet current UDC (Uniform Development Code) parking requirements 
and concerns with insufficient drainage and other site obstacles.   Ms. Nemecek stated the project 
team is recommending the proposal submitted for the Carey Building for the purchase amount of 
$275,000.00.  In response to inquiries from the governing body, Ms. Nemecek provided detailed 
information on the RFP’s that had been issued; consultant services by Noel Griffith Jr. and 
Associates; RFP process and time frames; review of proposals, and City purchasing policies.  Also 
pursuant to inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney; Teresa Moore, Director of Community 
Recreation and Events, and Mayor Orr provided information on Municipal Building Complex and 
Ice and Events Cente r ADA compliance; need for funding an analysis of certain municipal 
buildings to compile a master renovation plan; purchase orders serving as a form of contract, and 
disclosure to the governing body of all proposals’ information not just the proposal recommended 
by the project team.  Noel Griffith, Noel Griffith Jr. and Associates, responded to queries on status 
of the Carey Building relative to water entry/damage; building structural soundness concerns, and 
contamination.  Wendy Volk, #1 Properties, advise d a proposal was submitted after the RFP 
deadline for 1920 Thomes Avenue, City Center Building site, and commented on the building’s 
square footage and parking lot availability.  Ben Trautwein, property owner representative, also 
advised a late proposal wa s submitted for 508 West 19 th Street, Pioneer Printing building site.  
Speaking in support of revitalizing the downtown were Astrid, Plains Hotel owner, and Dale 
Steenbergen, Executive Director, Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, who also expressed 
concern with finding viable public/private partnerships to fix downtown blight ed building  
problems.  Chuck West, Carey Building property owner representative, explained the two 
proposals that had been offered, one involving the Affinity Group, noting the Group  has until 
March 9th to decide whether to purchase the Carey Building.  Upon inquiry, Mr. West advised the 
property owner would be willing to provide a reasonable time frame in which to enter into a 
purchase contract with the City  if the Affinity Group did not decide to move forward with 
purchasing the building , and provided information on construction costs.  Blythe McAndrew, 
Historic Preservation Board, noted the Carey block’s historic significance and requested Board 
involvement related to historic aspects involving potential building demolition.  Joe Dougherty 
spoke in support of restoration of the Carey Building, due to its historic significance, vs. 
demolishing the building.  Jim Weaver, #1 Properties, discussed RFP content relative to no specific 
prices being required as related to a proposal, and Affinity Group’s proposal, which would include 
a “turn key” option, and suggested that additional proposals be accepted.  Expressing St. Mary’s 
school student safety and traffic concerns, the following commented in objection to the Municipal 
Court possibl y being located on property adjacent to or in the north parking lot area of the 
Municipal Building:  Joel Hickerson, Pat Lane, Nick Serkedakis, Chanda Spears, Natalie Bell and 
Marcus Crowl.  Mike Celese and Steve Borin commented in support of the Carey Building site.  
During comments, additional information was provided by Ms. Nemecek, Mr. Griffith and Mayor 
Orr.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White stated there was no recommend ation on the 
item from Committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to accept the proposal (i.e. submitted by Chuck West, 
#1 Properties, Inc. of Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $275,000.00), seconded by Mr. Luna.  
Discussion topics included:  RFP site review process and procedures; transparency; wording of 
ballot language; traffic; renovation of the Municipal Building; rejecting the proposal and reviewing 
additional options, and relocation of Municipal Court being a Court issue and not a downtown 
redevelopment issue.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal, Mr. White and Mayor 
Orr.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-7-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works 
Department, and W.L. Contractors, Inc., Arvada, Colorado, for the 2018 Traffic Signal Installation 
Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed 
$295,572.00). (#6793) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-9-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Planning and 
Development Department, and American Contracting of Wyoming, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
for the Warren Rest House Restoration, Phase 2, Project .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(amount not to exceed $37,687.00). (#6794) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -8-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, 1% 
Construction Division, and Reiman Corp. and STC Construction Co., Inc., a Joint Venture, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the FY 2018 Miscellaneous Concrete Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $414,087.13). (#6795) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -6-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events Department, and Reiman Corp., Cheyenn e, Wyoming, for the Lions Park 
Pavillion Project (Land and Water Conservation grant and Parks Projects funds)  – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -4-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events D epartment, and Borderline Fencing, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the 
Backstop Fence Removal and Replacement at Converse Athletic Complex Project (Cheyenne 
Community Recreation District and Parks Projects funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Renewal No. 1 to Contract No. 5980 between the City of Cheyenne and Warren 
Federal Credit Union for limited public right -of-way use for fiber optic communications system 
installation.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City in the amount of $750.00). 
(#5980) 
 
[CA] Contract Renewal No. 1 to Contract No. 6292 between the City of Cheyenne and the Girl 
Scouts of Montana and Wyoming for the lease of 45.93 acres of City-owned real property.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City in the amount of $200.00). (#6292) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6625 between the City of Cheyenne and 
Western Research and Development, Ltd., for additional design services for the FY 2017 -18 On-
Call Traffic Engineering Ser vices Project (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $33,222.00). (#6625) 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase , by Community Recreation and Events Department, a new 
Montrose with screen restroom building for Myler  Park from CXT, Inc., Spokane Valley, 
Washington (CDBG grant funds).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed 
$130,326.00). 
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Steve Earnshaw, Frontier United Methodist Church, stated he was speaking on behalf of a 
concerned group of individuals regarding residents and living conditions at the mobile home park 
located at 316 Central Avenue, which is involved in the City’s Fight the Blight program.  He 
voiced support for a sustainable solution and requested the City p rovide notice on its plans 
involving code enforcement so the group could assist where possible with residents’ needs.  Input 
from Mayor Orr and City Council members was provided in response to Mr. Earnshaw’s 
comments.  Donald James Perrott Macneil commented on due process and equal protection rights, 
and Sally Meeker urged the governing body to consider the people involved in the mobile home 
situation.  Mayor Orr and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, provided information on due process and 
the abatement process, and it was noted any future legal notices issued by the City on the matter 
could be provided to Mr. Earnshaw .  [City Clerk’s note:  During this portion of other business, 
Mayor Orr briefly left the meeting with Council President Rinne assuming duties of t he chair; 
duties were returned to Mayor Orr during comments and prior to the next item]   
 
 Mr. Laybourn complimented Mr. Case’s involvement with an abatement clean -up project 
for a property on Baldwin Drive. 
 
 Mr. Johnson inquired about recent alcohol catering permits issued for events at the Civic 
Center, and recent information on downtown parking permits as issued by the Downtown 
Development Authority.  In response, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, provided infor mation on the 
alcohol permits, and Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, provided information on parking 
violation warning notices that were currently being issued in the downtown area. 
 
 Mr. Case requested staff submit an update to City Council regarding status of the 
Christensen Road Project. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:50 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 10, 2018 