MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-03-12 | CLIP_ID: 644 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 644

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 12, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Ca se, Bryan Cook,  Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott 
Roybal, Dr. Mark Rinne, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, 
and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on February 19, 2018.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 26, 2018.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Cook declared a conflict of interest (personal interest in voucher payable to Mr. Cook) 
and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Cook returned to 
Chambers. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 1.16.050, Off -Site improvements – 
Requirements, of Chapter 1.16, Annexation and Infrastructure Improvements, of Title 1, General 
Provisions, of the code o f the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming . Reporting for Public Services 
Committee, M r. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson. Mr. 
Roybal moved to amend Section 1.16.050 (B) Section #4 by removing the language “…  at the 
time of the construction of the off-site infrastructure improvements” and in its place inserting “… 
in the amount deposited with the City consistent with this chapter.”, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  It 
was noted if the amendment was approved the section would read:  If such refund is paid and the 
recipient is no longer the current record property owner, such person or persons shall not be 
relieved from the responsibility for the cost of the infrastructure improvements in the amount 
deposited with the City consistent with this chapter.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend Section #3 to reflect s imilar 
amendment language regarding the amount deposited  with the City, sec onded by Mr. Roybal.  
Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” all members of the governing body.  Main motion, as twice 
amended, carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 [CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to approve and f ile the Wyoming 
Division of Victim Services funding application State Fiscal Year 2019 and 2020, July 1, 2018 to 
June 30, 2020.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5919) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Mountain View Homes Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a replat of Tracts 3 and 4 of Mountain View Homes 
Subdivision being situated in a portion of the SW¼ Section 12, Township 13 North, Range 67 
West, of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Laramie County, Wyomi ng (located west of and adjacent 
to Southwest Drive, north of West College Drive)  – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Creating the Municipal Court Bu ilding Process Review Committee – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County, City of Cheyenne and the Board 
of Public Utilities for the purpose of purchasing a small unmanned aerial system and necessary 
software through the Cheyenne/Laramie County Geographic Information Systems Co operative, 
and providing rules for govern ing the operation of the system.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (amount as specified in the MOU). (#6797) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Trihydro Corporation, 
Laramie, Wyomi ng, for Happy Jack Landfill environmental monitoring services (Solid Waste 
fund).  Craig LaVoy, Public Works Department, provided information on the number of proposals 
received through the Request for Proposals process and the recommendation to enter into  an 
agreement with TriHydro.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to approve in an 
amount not to exceed $153,930.00, seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. Luna moved to amend by substitute 
dated March 1, 2018 in an amount not to exceed $171,912.00, second ed by Mr. Johnson.  Upon 
inquiry, Mr. LaVoy explained the increase in the amount was due to the initial sampling amount 
numbers not being correctly multiplied relative to the number of tests required.  Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion , as amended, carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6798) 
 
 Purchase Agreement and Settlement and Release of All Claims between the City of 
Cheyenne and Mary Rose Ramirez for acquisition of real property located at 2247 East 19th Street, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the Pershing Boulevard/Converse Avenue/19th Street 
Roundabout Project (2007-2010 1% Sales Tax) .  Mary Rose Ramirez read a statement detailing 
her experiences and concerns as a homeowner and resident having a home adjacent to the Converse 
roundabout intersection.  Her concerns included: Personal safety; lack of parking; property 
access/egress; number of roundabout vehicle crashes; loss of property value, and pas t 
communications with the City that have not resolved her concerns.  Mr. Luna moved to approve 
in an amount not to exceed $185,000.00, seconded by Mr. Case.  Discussion included the following 
topics:  Roundabout signage; City sanitation worker and general safety concerns; “ righting a 
wrong”, other properties adjacent to the roundabout that had been purchased for the project, and a 
claim filed by Ms. Rami rez that had been d enied.  Upon inquiry, Ron Downey, City Treasurer, 
advised of the amount of project fun ds that were still available.  Mr. Case moved to amend by 
substitute dated March 5, 2018 which would increase the amount of compensation to $198,950.00, 
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Sections proposed to be changed pursuant to the proposed substitute were 
reviewed.  Discussion on the proposed amendment included:  Payment of Ms. Ramirez’ attorney 
fees; market analysis vs. property appraisal ; timing of the roundabout design involving the 
property; unsubstantiated documentation involving the amount to be paid by the City relative to 
attorney fees and personal loss, and property access concerns.  During discussion and upon inquiry, 
Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, provided information available regarding payment of attorney fees; 
roundabout design involving Ms. Ramirez’ property and two other properties the City purchased; 
history of Ms. Ramirez’ concerns expressed to the previous administration, and discussions that 
had been held with Ms. Ramirez and her attorney on the additional expenses being requested.  Ms. 
Hackl noted the amounts outlined in the proposed amendment did not include moving expenses.    
Ericka Smith, attorney for  Ms. Ramirez, advised state statutes pertaining to eminent domain 
scenarios provide for payment of attorney fees, and explained how the amount being requested in 
the substitute was computed.  Motion to amend failed (due to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” – Mr. Case, 
Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal and Mayor Orr.  Voting “no” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. 
Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White.  Mr. Shanor, seconded by Mr. Case, moved to amend Section 
2 (b) by including a sentence indicating the seller may retain and remove kitchen appliances 
including the refrigerator, stove, washer and dryer, and adding a new Subsection (e) which states 
the City also agrees to compensate seller for the following costs incurred in resolvin g this matter 
as supported by proper documentation: (i) reasonable relocation costs as may have been required 
by law; and (ii) reasonable attorney’s fees as may have been required by law.  During verification 
of wording of the motion, Dr. Rinne raised a point of information inquiring whether the phrase “as 
supported by proper documentation” was to be included in the motion with Mr. Shanor confirming 
that wording is intended to be part of the motion.  For clarification, Ms. Hackl inquired whether a 
defined dollar amount of compensation was intended to be included in the amendment  with Mr. 
Shanor explaining if the amendment passed an additional amendment could be made to include a 
“not to excee d amount”.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Hackl advised, outside of a court case, the closest 
legal application regarding attorney’s fees may be the eminent domain state statute s, and that 
nothing in law pertains to determining the amount of relocation expenses but th at legal research 
on the topic could be conducted.  Comment w as made on the governing body’s responsibility 
involving relocation cost s.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Smith provided information on attorney’s fees 
relative to whether a lawsuit were involved through inverse condemnation, which is  part of the 
eminent domain statutes, and stated that would not be the cause of action they would bring forward.  
Ms. Smith expressed there was nothing that would allow for r elocation costs as may be required 
by law, therefore, the amendment would “strip” Ms. Ramirez of those costs.   Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and 
Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  Mr. Cook move to amend the amendment by adding language that the 
costs (i.e. relocation costs and attorney’s fees) shall not exceed the amount of $15,000.00, 
seconded by Mr. Case.  Pursuant to Dr. Rinne raising a point of order, Mr. Cook restated his motion 
as a motion to amend instead of a motion to amend the amendment.  Comment was made on the 
intent of the amendment, which provides for dollar amount flexibility for costs which are currently 
unknown.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Mr. Johnson and Mayor Orr voting “no”.  As a clerical housekeeping measure, it was 
noted that references in Section 16 (h) indicating “Western Standard or Western Daylight Time” 
should be corrected to “Mountain Standard or Mountain Daylight Time” .  Following comments 
on handling this issue through the courts (judicial process) vs. the governing body, main motion, 
as twice amended, carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#6799) 
 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for the 
housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services Center located at the Archer 
Complex – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenn e, Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and 
Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] 2018–2019 Collective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne 
Firefighters Local Union No. 279, International Association  of Firefighters – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Josh Cossitt to provide tennis services and 
instruction at City-owned tennis facilities (revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HollyFrontier Cheyenne Refining LLC for 
designation of the title of sponsorship of SuperDay and the Tour de Prairie events  – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, and Laramie County 
School District No. 1 to provide transportation service for the Recreat ion Division “REC Camp 
Program” – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -6-18 for a co ntract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events Department, and Reiman Corp., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Lions Park 
Pavillion Project (Land and Water Conservation grant and Parks Projects funds) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $277,600.00). (#6800) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -4-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events Department, and Borderline Fencing, Inc., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the 
Backstop Fence Removal and Repl acement at Converse Athletic Complex Project (Cheyenne 
Community Recreation District and Parks Projects funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(amount not to exceed $149,580.00). (#6801) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -14-18 for furnishing one new 2017 -2018 low ground 
pressure/waste handling dozer for the City of Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste management)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -19-18 for furnishing 95 -gallon and 65 -gallon automated refuse 
carts for the City of Cheyenne Sanitation Division (Solid Waste management) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 Renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses and permits (retail, restaurant, 
limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses and microbrewery and satellite distillery permits) filed 
with the City Clerk’s office.   Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Mr. Luna 
moved to divide the question to provide for a separate vote on the renewal liquor license 
application filed by Keg, Inc., d/b/a D.T.’s Liq uor Mart and Tusker Bar , 3310 Ridge Road , 
seconded by Mr.  Case.  Mayor Orr advised a motion to divide the question was not debatable.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Mayor Orr stated as the 
motion carried, the governing body was now back on the main motion as divided to act upon the 
renewal liquor license application filed by D.T.’s Liquor Mart and Tusker Bar.  Upon inquiry, 
Office Josh Hedum, Police Department, provided information on annual compliance checks and 
the number of compliance failures involving D.T.’s.  Upon inquiry, Kevin Georges, Keg, Inc., 
provided information in response to non -compliance, employee involvement in the “failures”, 
employee TIPS certification training, and steps they have taken to address fu ture compliance 
issues.  He expressed concern with the compliance check process utilized by police officers, use 
of fake ID’s by underage individuals attempting to purchase alcohol, and unreliability of ID 
electronic scanners.  Mr. Georges verified local l iquor licensees utilize a communication “phone 
tree” and advised of training and topics of discussion, including deterrence of underage acquisition 
of alcohol, through the Laramie County Beverage Association.  Mayor Orr relinquished duties of 
the chair to Council President Dr. Rinne to allow her the opportunity to discuss the motion on the 
floor.  Discussion included:  Observation of youth on D.T.’s outdoor premises; TIPS training 
requirements and licensee responsibility, and objection to comments Mr. Georges had made during 
earlier discussion regarding police department compliance check practices.  Motion to approve the 
renewal liquor license application for Keg, Inc., d/b/a D.T.’s Liquor Mart and Tusker Bar carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr voting “no”.  
Following announcement of the vote, Dr. Rinne returned duties of the chair to Mayor Orr.  Dr. 
Rinne declared a conflict of interest (family member  interest in a license ) and vacated Council 
Chambers.  Mayor Orr stated the governing body was now back on the main motion to approve 
the remaining liquor license and permit renewal applications.  Discussion include: Availability of 
high quality fake ID’s through the internet and electronic ID readers/scanners.  Upon inquiry, Chief 
Kozak and Officer Hedum provided information on fake ID’s, effectiveness of ID scanners, holder 
of the fake ID being held responsible for use violations, Real ID Act and use of fake ID’s compared 
to other states, and benefit of licensees’ sharing of confiscat ed fake ID’s with the department.   
Main motion to approve the remaining liquor license and permit renewal applications carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following 
announcement of the vote, Dr. Rinne returned to Chambers. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase Motorola digital portable radios for the Cheyenne Fire and 
Rescue Department from Wireless Advanced Communications, Evans, Colorado (Homeland 
Security funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase a replacement engine for a loader for Street and Alley Division 
from Tri-State Truck & Equipment, Casper, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 26 , 2018 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a retail liquor license 
transfer of location application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Steamboat’s, LLC d/b/a 
Steamboat’s Wyoming Steak and Smoke House, from 1947 Dell Range Blvd. to 115 E. 17 th St., 
Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Mr. Case stated at the February 26, 2018 City Council meeting, the motion to accept the 
proposal for the new Municipal Court site from Chuck West, #1 Properties, Inc. of Cheyenne in 
an amount not to exceed $275,000.00 failed, and, having voted on the prevailing side and pursuant 
to Chapter 2.04 of City Code, moved to reconsider the vote on the main motion, seconded by Mr. 
Shanor.  For clarification of the February 26 th agenda item proposed to be reconsidered, Carol 
Intlekofer, City Clerk, read the agenda entitlement into the record as follows: “Consideration of 
RFP-14-18 for the new site of the City of Cheyenne Municipal Court (1% Specific Purpose Sales 
and Use Tax).”  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Case, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, 
Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor, Mr. White and Mayor Orr.  Voting “no” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn and 
Dr. Rinne.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend the main motion to read “that we accept the proposal from 
Chuck West, #1 Properties, Inc., of Cheyenne in an amount not to exceed $275,000.00 for t he 
purchase of the property located at the corner of 17 th St. and Carey Avenue, known as the Carey 
Building.  The closing on the property shall not occur until and unless an analysis of the site, along 
with estimates to demolish the building, remediate the  site and construct a one story building is 
completed, and such analysis concludes this can be completed within the $9,000,000.00 allowed 
by the ballot proposition.  If not, then that site will be rejected and a new RFP shall be issued 
seeking new proposal s.”  The motion was seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Shanor explained his 
reasons for proposing the amendment.  Upon inquiry regarding a letter received by governing body 
members on this date, Chuck West, #1 Properties, Inc., advised a previous contract involvin g the 
Affinity Group’s potentially purchasing the Carey Building property had been rescinded, and that 
the owner is reaffirming his RFP response to sell the property to the City in the amount of 
$275,000.00.  He noted a date in which the owner would receive an answer from the City on its 
decision to purchase the property was contained within the owner’s letter so the matter would not 
be “floating forever”.  Mr. West expressed his belief that the property owner would be open to a 
reasonable amount of time needed by the City to conduct its analysis.  Upon inquiry, Amy Allen, 
City Engineer, stated, based upon her previous experience, the time frame proposed by the property 
owner was “a bit tight”.  Upon inquiry concerning which RFP proposals received completely met 
all of the RFP minimum requirements, Craig La Voy, Public Works Department, advised he was 
not familiar with  specific proposal contents, and Steve Gaer, Assistant Director, Facilities 
Maintenance, stated only one proposal (i.e. Carey Building a/k/a former Fowlers Building) closest 
met the minimum requirements.  Discussion included: RFP  criteria and minimum requirements 
generally; proposed closing date; City Council procedures; property being vacant and dormant for 
several years, and no specific date for closing on the property included in the motion to amend.  
Upon request, Mr. Shanor re iterated the wording of his motion to amend.   Upon inquiry, Sylvia 
Hackl, City Attorney, expressed, based upon wording of the proposed amendment, the due date 
would be the closing date, however, with respect to the owner’s letter that the b uilding be under 
contract by March 26th with a closing date of April 30 th, it may or may not be possible to get a 
closing done by that date due to City Council’s governmental process in acting upon a purchase 
contract, and legal staff time to review and prepar e a contract document .  Ms. Hackl further  
expressed her belief that the City may need a minimum of another month to review conditions and 
prepare an agreement. 
 
  
 
Mr. West explained the property owner’s position relative to agreeing to take the property off the 
market to the City’s benefit, and owner’s willingness to work on a reasonable time table as long 
as the City is acting in good faith , and stated another mo nth may be considered reasonable.  
Discussion followed on constructability review pursuant to the proposed amendment and whose 
responsibility it would be to conduct and fund; services by Noel Griffith Jr. and Associates; use of 
1% Specific Purpose funds; past use of 1% funds relative to conducting project due diligence, and 
single story vs. two story facility and parking availability at the site.  During discussion, Mayor 
Orr provided information in response to comments and inquiry, and Ron Downey, City Treasurer, 
advised of potential funding sources that may be available for due diligence costs.  Joe Dougherty 
spoke in support of conducting due diligence if funding was available and the need to acquire cost 
information, historical aspects of the Carey Build ing, and stated an artist’s rendition should be 
provided to show the public what the new building would look like.  Motion to amend carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook and Mr. 
Laybourn voting “no”.  Pursuant to query, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, explained governing body 
meeting procedures involving a motion to reconsider in which the public previously had the 
opportunity to provide input on the main motion.  Discussion included: Rationale for remediation 
of the site; short term vs. long term “view” ; minimal impact of the Municipal Court office in the 
downtown area, and private/public partnerships involving downtown rehabilitation projects.  In 
response to a point of order called by Mr. Roybal, Ms. Intlekofer advised procedurally discussion 
on the main motion, as reconsidered and amended, by City Council members was in order.  Mr. 
Johnson requested consideration to hear comments from those in the audience who wished to speak 
on the motion with Mayor Orr a greeing to the request .  Offering public comments were Ma jor 
Dorr, who spoke against the proposed Carey Building location and in support of building the new 
Municipal Court on the north side of the Municipal Building property, or upon a vacant lot, and 
Pat Lane, St. Mary’s School, who spoke in support of the Carey Building site, and against building 
on Municipal Building property.   Main motion, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Case, 
Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor, Mr. White and Mayor Orr.  Voting “no” – Mr. 
Cook, Mr. Laybourn and Dr. Rinne. 
 
There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:35 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 23, 2018 