MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-03-26 | CLIP_ID: 646 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 646

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 26, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  COUNCIL PRESIDENT – Dr. Mark Rinne ; 
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, 
Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Absent: Mayor Marian J. Orr .  Also present: Carol 
Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney. In the absence of Mayor Orr, Council 
President Rinne chaired the meeting.  [City Clerk’s note:  As chair, President Rinne exercised his 
option, as entitled by state statute, to not cast a vote on agenda items].  The pledge of allegiance 
was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with the exception of Mr.  
Johnson voting “no”, and President Rinne who did not vote.  For informational purposes, President 
Rinne advised those present that the Reed Avenue Rail Corridor Master Plan resolution, included 
on the Consent Agenda, was being referred to Public Services Committee which would meet on 
April 3, 2018 at Noon in Room 104. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 12, 2018.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
President Rinne who did not vote. 
 
President Rinne opened a p ublic hearing for a retail liquor license transfer of location 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Steamboat’s, LLC d/b/a Steamboat’s Wyoming 
Steak and Smoke House, from 1947 Dell Range Blvd. to 115 E. 17 th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming.   
Scott Rupe, Steamboat’s Wyoming Steak and Smoke House , explained they are in negotiations 
with the property owner relative to the lease agreement for the restaurant’s current location , and 
indicated, at this time, they would like to move forward with the process to transfer the license 
location.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Rupe advised notification would be provided prior to the April 9 th 
City Council meeting if the transfer of location application would be withdrawn.  There being no 
further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, President Rinne closed the 
hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 1.16.050, Off -Site improvements – 
Requirements, of Chapter 1.16, Annexation and Infrastructure Improvements, of Title 1, General 
Provisions, of the code o f the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Johnson moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr . Case.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. 
Roybal stated the recommendation of the committee is to approve on third and final reading.  Upon 
inquiry, Ben Rowland, Assistant C ity Attorney, explained the process that would be utilized if a 
property were sold after a deposit had been made by the initial property owner, and noted the 
parties involved may negotiate between themselves relative to the deposit amount.  Comment was 
made regarding the refund process; infrastructure improvements and lack of implementation, and 
annexation of county pockets.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Rowland verified the ordinance change applies 
only to properties which have been annexed into the City involving instances where deposits have 
been made and infrastructure has not been put in.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” all members of 
the governing body present with the exception of President Rinne who did not vote. (#4221) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 8.56, Noise Control, Section 
8.56.060, Permit for relief from designated levels, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Mountain View Homes Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a replat of Tracts 3 and 4 of Mountain View Homes 
Subdivision being situated in a portion of the SW¼ Section 12, Township 13 North, Range 67 
West, of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent 
to Southwest Drive, north of West College Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5920) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Creating the Municipal Court Building Process Review Committee.  As 
sponsor of the resolution, Mr.  Laybourn requested the item be withdrawn from the agenda, noting 
he had comments he would like to make.  President Rinne advised comment could be made under 
other business.  Upon query and hearing no objection from City Council members, President Rinne 
stated the item was withdrawn from the agenda. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution No. 5808 by appointing the Mayor of the City of 
Cheyenne to serve on the Advisory Board of the participating municipalities of the Laramie State 
Small Business Credit Initiative (“SS BCI”) Consortium – referred to Finance Co mmittee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the revised City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Investment Policy 
and Portfolio Guidelines, February  26, 2018 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. 
Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2018 budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16-4-112 & 16 -4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Acknowledging receipt of the Reed A venue Rail Corridor Master Plan 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White)  
 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for the 
housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services Center located at the Archer 
Complex.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6806) 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and 
Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center.  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6807) 
 
[CA] 2018–2019 Collective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne 
Firefighters Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6808) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Josh Cossitt to provide tennis services and 
instruction at City-owned tennis facilities (revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(revenue to the City $600.00). (#6809) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HollyFrontier Cheyenne Refining LLC for 
designation of the title of sponsorship of SuperDay and the Tour de Prairie events .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City $25,000.00). (#6810) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understa nding between the City of Cheyenne, and Laramie County 
School District No. 1 to provide transportation service for the Recreat ion Division “REC Camp 
Program”.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6811) 
 
[CA] Agreement by and between the City of Cheyenne , Cheyenne Civic Center, and the 
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and 
Allied Crafts of the United States, Its Territories and Canada (IATSE),  Local 229, for stagehand 
labor – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 [CA] Consideration of Bid #E -14-18 for furnishing one new 2017 -2018 low ground 
pressure/waste handling dozer for the City of Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste management) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid submitted by Power Equipment, Casper, WY, 
in an amount not to exceed $353,117.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -19-18 for furnishing 95 -gallon and 65 -gallon automated refuse 
carts for the City of Cheyenne Sanitation Div ision (Solid Waste management ).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid submitted by IPL Inc., Forsyth, GA, in an amount n ot to 
exceed $72,172.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-22-18 for the City’s annual purchase of “Aggregates” (2015-2018 
1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-23-18 for the City’s annual purchase of “Hot Mix, Tack Oil and 
Cold Mix” (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase Motorola digital portable rad ios for the Cheyenne Fire and 
Rescue Department from Wireless Advanced Communications, Evans, Colorado (Homeland 
Security funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $38,703.68). 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase a replacement engine for a loader for Street and Alley Division 
from Tri-State Truck & Equipment, Casper, Wyoming.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(amount not to exceed $47,129.31). 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 9, 2018, at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the City of Cheyenne’s Annual 
Action Plan Fiscal Year 2018 -2019 prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community 
Development Office. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 9, 2018, at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance 
of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exists for Lot 14, Block 5, 
Homestead Addition, First Filing Replat, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of Homestead 
Avenue, north of the Cheyenne Greenway). 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 9, 2018, at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance 
of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exists for a portion of Lot 1, 
Block 1, Cheyenne Hills Church Subdivision and portions of the east half of Section 25, T.14N, 
R.66W., of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (locate d north of and including Pershing 
Boulevard, east of Farthing Road; also located south of Sage Road, east of Gunsmoke Road). 
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Commenting on the Municipal Court building project and the selected Carey Building site 
were:  Ed Melko, Astrid, Lois Phillips and Jim Byrd, State Representative (legislature).  Comments 
included: Building design to include a second floor “shell-out” space; utilizing additional funds, if 
needed, for the project from other projects; designing building to be similar in physical appearance 
as the historic block, and proposed location for the project being an i nappropriate choice and not 
contributing to revitalizing downtown.  
 
 Mr. Laybourn commented on the resolution withdr awn from the agenda  earlier in the 
meeting and his reasons for proposing the resolution to provide for a review committee for the 
Municipal Court project .  He expressed concerns with  revitalizing downtown; use of 6th Penny 
funds for demolition, remediation of environmental issues and design costs , and lack of current 
property owner financial contribution toward property improvements. 
 
 Mr. Johnson requested a memo of clarification from City Attorney staff regarding a  
Wyoming Supreme Court ruling related to firefighter union contract negotiations.  Sylvia Hackl, 
City Attorney, explained the ruling require s there be a quorum of the governing body present 
during negotiations, however, a Labor Management Committee was created last year as part of the 
approved current contract which provides for the committee to meet throughout the year and bring 
items before the governing body .  She stated negotiations were in complete compliance with the 
law and that she would prepare and provide a memo. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:43 p.m.  
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 6, 2018 