MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-04-09 | CLIP_ID: 648 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 648

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 9, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn (arriving at 6:10 p.m.), 
Mike Luna, Scott Roybal, Dr. Mark Rinne and Dicky Shanor. Absent: Jeff White.  Also present: 
Carol Intlekofer , City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was 
recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Johnson, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Roybal and Mr. Cook, Agenda Item #18 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve  remaining Consent Agenda i tems, seconded by Mr . Cook.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 26, 2018.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Cowboy 
Dodge, Inc.) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Johnson moved to approve payment of vouchers 
as presented, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to 
Council Chambers. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing for the City of Cheyenne’s Annual Action Plan Fiscal 
Year 2018 -2019 prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office.   
Deanne Widauf, Housing and Community Development, provided a brief overview of the history 
and purpose of the Community Development Block Grant program , noting the proposed plan is 
consistent with the 5-year Comprehensive Consolidated Plan, and stated the anticipated allocation 
funding amount is $398,442.00 with $1,000.00 in program income and $56,000 .00 in recaptured 
funding. Ms. Widauf explained the T ier system being utilized and reviewed information on the 
grant application process; public notifications and opportunities for input, and role of the Advisory 
Council in reviewing and recommending projects to be funded.  She stated nine projects are being 
proposed and discussed the category type, funding amount and purpose for each proje ct, and 
commented on program administration funding . Upon inquiry, Ms. Widauf advised the  
neighborhood involved in one of the projects (a street paving project) was located north of Dell 
Range, between Frontier Mall and Yellowstone Road.  [City Clerk’s note: Councilman Laybourn 
joined the meeting] Patrice Gap en, Housing and Community Development Advisory Council  
member, stated the number of applications submitted were more than what could be funded, and 
that the Advisory Council unanimously agreed on the projects to recommend.  Ms. Gap en also 
noted the area that will receive paved roads had previously been a county pocket.  Brief comment 
was made on county pockets.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing 
having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a p ublic hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exists for Lot 14, Block 5, Homestead 
Addition, First Filing Replat, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of Homestead Avenue, 
north of the Cheyenne Greenway).  Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development Department,  provided 
information on the property requested by the landowner to be annexed and reviewed requirements 
of and compliance with annexation conditions contained in state statutes.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Lloyd 
explained it was his understanding that a portion of the property utilized for vehicle storage is not 
used by the land owner, but by an adjacent property owner.  He stated if the proposed zone change 
in conjunction with the annexation is approved, it  would prohibit the use of the land for vehicle 
storage.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, 
Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a p ublic hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exists for a portion of Lot 1, Block 1, 
Cheyenne Hills Church Subdivision and portions of the ea st half of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., 
of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and including Pershing Boulevard, 
east of Farthing Road; also located south of Sage Road, east of Gunsmoke Road).   Seth Lloyd, 
Planning and Development Department, provided information on the property requested by the 
landowner to be annexed and reviewed requirements of and compliance with annexation 
conditions contained in state statutes.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of 
the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 8.56, Noise Control, Section 
8.56.060, Permit for relief from designated levels, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Astrid, The Plains Hotel,  expressed concern with vehicle noise 
levels and speeding in the area of The Plains Hotel, and questioned whether the proposed ordinance 
would negatively impact the situ ation.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Cook.  Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, 
explained the proposed ordinance is affiliated with an ordinance change last year which 
streamlined bus iness licensing processes, and that a change to this City Code section was 
inadvertently omitted from the previous ordinance, noting the proposed change is essentially a 
housekeeping measure.  She further explained the ordinance’s effect will result in the Police Chief 
being authorized to determine  conditions affiliated with  a noise permit instead of the Mayor.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Che yenne, Wyoming, Lot 14, 
Block 5, Homestead Addition, First Filing Replat, situated in the N½ NE¼ Section 4, T.13N., 
R.66W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of Homestead Avenue, north of the 
Cheyenne Greenway) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classifica tion from County MR Medium -Density 
Residential to NR-2 Neighborhood Residential - Medium-Density for Lot 14, Block 5, Replat of 
Homestead Addition, First Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of Homestead 
Avenue, north of the Cheyenne Greenway) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of Lot 1, Block 1, Cheyenne Hills Church Subdivision and portions of the east half of Section 25, 
T.14N., R.66W., of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and including 
Pershing Boulevard, east of Farthing Road; also located south of Sa ge Road, east of Gunsmoke 
Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County A -1, Agricultural and Rural 
Residential to MR, Medium -density Residential for a portion of Lot 1, Block 1, Cheyenne Hills 
Church Subdivision and portions of the east half of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., of the 6 th P.M., 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and including Pershing Boulevard , east of Farthing 
Road; also located south of Sage Road, east of Gunsmoke Road ) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Esta blished, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from Conditional MUR, 
Mixed Use Residential Emphasis to NB, Neighborhood Business for a parcel of land consisting of 
all of Block 1 6, Hellmans Addition Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming to be known as Peak 
Wellness Center (located at 510 West 29th Street, between O’Neil and Thomes Avenues) – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending, creating, or deleting various chapters and 
sections within Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Cheyenne City Code relating to 
adoption of the National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition  – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution No. 5808 by appointing the Mayor of the City of 
Cheyenne to serve on the Advisory Board of the participating municipalities of the Laramie State 
Small Business Credit Initiative (“SS BCI”) Consortium.  Motion ( per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#5921) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the revised City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Investment Policy 
and Portfolio Guidelines, February 26, 2018.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5922) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2018 budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16-4-112 & 16 -4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agend a) 
carried. (#5923) 
  
 RESOLUTION – Acknowledging receipt of the Reed Avenue Rail Corridor Master Plan. 
Speaking in support of the Master Plan were: Vicki Dugger, Downtown Development Authority; 
Cari Cuffney (who also voiced support on behalf of Danielle and Mark Cullins who could not be 
present); Dave Teubner, Warehouse Twenty One; Andrew Rose, property co-owner in the West 
Edge vicinity; Amy Spieker; Affie Ellis, State Senator, District 8, and Astrid, owner, The Plains 
Hotel.  Comments included the following topics:  Master Plan’s importance to development of the 
West Edge area; financial investments by business property owners; types of businesses that may 
be interested in locating in the West Edge; investing in revitalization of the downtown as well as 
the West Edge, and difference between acknowledging receipt vs. adoption of the plan.  Tony 
Lucero, A & C Feed, voiced his concerns regarding the Master Plan and future access to property 
he owns along the rail corridor.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to 
acknowledge receipt , seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Discussion followed on the 6 th Penny ballot 
question that was approved for  the Reed Avenue Corridor project; acknowledging receipt vs. 
adoption of the report; railroad easement that must be acquired, and moving forward with the 
Master Plan.  During discussion and upon inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, provided her 
interpretation of the difference between “acknowledging receipt” vs. “adoption” of the plan.  
William Powell Haley, property owner in the area, questioned the effect of a railroad easement 
relative to his property boundaries.  Providing information in response to in quiries were:  Tom 
Mason, Director, Metropolitan Planning Organization, noting the plan reflects a 35% preliminary 
design, and Troy Russ, Kimley-Horn and Associates, planning and design engineering consultants, 
who provided information on working with the railroad regarding an easement, and determining 
any private property access issues .  Mr. Laybourn moved to amend the pending motion from 
“acknowledging receipt” to “adopting”.  Motion died due to lack of a second.  Comment was made 
that funding for the project was in place through voter approval of the 6 th Penny ballot question.  
Motion to acknowledge receipt carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
(#5924) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plan 2018-2019 prepared 
by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development office – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION –  Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat 
for Hawk’s Landing Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Tract 8, Capitol Tracts, being situated in 
a portion of the NE¼ NW¼, Section 18, T13N, R66W, of the 6th Principal Meridian, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to York Avenue, south of West College Drive) – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Precluding the rental or use of the City’s athletic fields by Steve Avila 
or SAA Enterprises until those parties have repaid the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Mustangs 
Baseball for all losse s sustained from the 20 17 CABA World Series Tournament – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] Agreement by and between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Civic Center, and the 
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and 
Allied Crafts of the United States, Its Territories and Canada (IATSE),  Local 229, for stagehand 
labor.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6816) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne  and Rebecca Velez for 
concessionaire services at the Converse Softball Complex, the Brimmer Softball Complex, the 
Cheyenne Junior League Baseball Complex and the Powers Field Baseball Complex  (revenue to 
City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Youth 
Baseball for concessionaire services at the Dutcher Baseball Complex (revenue to City) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Chicago Dog House 
for concessionaire services at the Pioneer Park Baseball Complex (revenue to City)  – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District Number One to provide drainage improvements on Sunflower Road adjacent to 
Buffalo Ridge Elementary School (Ward II Contingency and Engineering Drainage Funds)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 3 to City Contract No. 6498 between the City of Cheyenne and 
DHM Design Corporation, Denver, CO, for professional services associated with the Civic Center 
Commons Project (FEMA Pre-Disaster Mitigation Grant and Wyoming Business Council Park 
Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 [CA] Consideration of Bid #E-22-18 for the City’s annual purchase of “Aggregates” (2015-2018 
1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept ed bid from Simon C ontractors, 
Cheyenne, WY). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-23-18 for the City’s annual purchase of “Hot Mix, Tack Oil and 
Cold Mix” (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from 
JTL Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, WY).  
 
[CA] Retail liquor license transfer of location application filed with the City Clerk’s O ffice for 
Steamboat’s, LLC d/b/a Steamboat’s Wyoming Steak and Smoke House, from 1947 Dell Range 
Blvd. to 115 E. 17th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase six Self Contained Breathing Apparatuses (SCBA) and affiliated 
equipment from L.N. Curtis & Sons, Salt Lake City, UT, for the Chey enne Fire and Rescue 
Department (Homeland Security funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase twenty 20 premium ice bumper cars from IBC I nternational, 
Steamboat Springs, CO, for the Community Recreation and Events Department, Ice and Events 
Center (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Major Dorr commented in support of Civic Center operational changes relative to a recent 
newspaper article, and expressed concern with loss of parking spaces in the west parking lot across 
from the Municipal Building and Civic Center as part of the Civic Center Commons Project. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:05 p.m. 
 
   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 20, 2018 