MEETING: First Regular Meeting | DATE: 2009-01-05 | CLIP_ID: 64 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 64

   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
 
Office of City Clerk
 
January 5, 2009
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne assembled for its first regular 2009 meeting on
this date at 6:30 p.m. in the Cheyenne Civic Center.  Purpose of the first regular meeting was to
recognize and administer oaths of office to those individuals who were elected, or re-elected, at the
most r ecent g eneral e lection t o s erve a s mu nicipal o fficials, a s w ell a s p rovide f or c ertain
administrative functions.  Ms. Mona Pearl served as mistress of ceremonies prior to the meeting being
officially convened.
Posting of Colors was provided by members of the Wyoming National Guard Joint Color
Guard, and a musical selection was performed by Ms. Patrice Pilivant with assistance by members of
Hands in Harmony.  Father Gary Ruzicka, St. Mary’s Cathedral, delivered the invocation.
The Honorable William U. Hill, Justice of the Wyoming Supreme Court, administered the oath
of elected office to Mayor-elect Richard L. Kaysen,  followed by administration of oaths of elected
office for the following newly elected and re-elected City Council members:  Amber Ash and Jimmy
Valdez, Ward I; Patrick Collins and Jack Spiker, Ward II, and Jim Brown and Don Pierson, Ward
III.
Mayor Kaysen officially called the first regular meeting to order at 6:50 p.m.  Those present
were: MAYOR - Richard L. Kaysen; COUNCIL MEMBERS - Ms. Ash, Mr. Brown, Ms. Broyles,
Ms. Case, Mr. Collins, Mr. Pierson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Spiker and Mr. Valdez.  Also present were Carol
Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Bob Nicholas, Acting City Attorney.  Following the pledge of allegiance,
Mayor Kaysen welcomed those present and provided comments on the community’s progress and
his vision for the City’s future.
ELECTION OF  CO UNCIL PRESI DENT F OR 2009.   M ayor Kaysen an nounced t hat
pursuant to City code, he would not be participating in voting for the election of Council President
and Vice President officers.  Mr. Brown moved to nominate and elect Mr. Collins as City Council
President for 2009, seconded by Mr. Pierson.  Dr. Rinne moved that nominations cease, seconded
by Mr. Valdez.  Motion to cease nominations carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body with the exception of Ms. Case voting “no” and Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.  Motion to
nominate and elect Mr. Collins carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.
ELECTION OF COUNCIL VICE PRESIDENT FOR 2009.  Mr. Pierson moved to nominate
and elect Ms. Broyles, seconded by Mr. Collins.  Dr. Rinne moved that nominations cease, seconded
by Mr. Pierson.  Motion to cease nominations carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing
body with the exception of Ms. Case voting “no” and Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.  Motion to
nominate and elect Ms. Broyles carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the
exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote.
APPROVAL OF APPOINTMENT OF CITY OFFICIALS (pursuant to Title 2 of the Code
of the City of Cheyenne) as follows: Guy E. Cameron, Chief of Fire and Rescue Department; Barbara
E. Dorr,  City Treasurer; Robert D. Fecht, Chief of Police Department; Paul S. Galeotos, Municipal
Court Judge; Randy K. Hays, Assistant City Treasurer; Carol A. Intlekofer, City Clerk/Assistant City
Treasurer; Ronnald J. Jeffrey, Juvenile Court Judge; Mark T. Moran, Municipal Court Judge; Rick
L. Parish, Parks and Recreation Director, and Daniel E. White, City Attorney.  Mr. Collins moved
to approve the appointments “en masse”, seconded by Mr. Spiker.  Motion  carried.  Voting “yes”
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Kaysen who did not vote (mayoral
appointments).  Justice Hill administered oaths of appointment to the above listed city officials.
Following a musical selection performed by Dr. Joe Harrell, with assistance by members of
Hands in Harmony, City Clerk Intlekofer announced that refreshments would be served in the Civic
Center lobby immediately following the meeting.
There being no further business for t he first r egular meeting, t he meeting w as o fficially
adjourned at 7:15 p.m.
 Submitted by,
 Carol Intlekofer, MMC
 City Clerk
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request.
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle
 January 10, 2009