MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-05-29 | CLIP_ID: 657 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 657

  
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 29, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  COUNCIL PRESIDENT – Dr. Mark Rinne ; 
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, 
Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White . Absent: Mayor Marian J. Orr .  Also present: Carol 
Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney. In the absence of Mayor Orr, Council 
President Rinne chaired the meeting.  [City Clerk’s note:  As chair  and with the exception of the 
vote taken on the main motion for Agenda Item #9, an ordinance on third and final reading , 
President Rinne exercised his option, as entitled by state statute, to not cast a vote on agenda items].  
The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Expression of Appreciation to the 2017 -2018 Mayor’s Youth Council and State of the 
Youth Address.  Jan Spires, Youth Alternatives and staff advisor to the Youth Council, expressed 
appreciation to Youth Council members, and introduced Julia Horst, Mayor’s Youth Council chair 
for 2017-2018.  Ms. Horst presented the State of the Youth address, and provided information on 
various accomplishments, projects and programs the group participated in throughout the year . 
Ms. Spires and Eric Fountain, Mayor’s Chief of Staff, presented Certificates of Appreciation to 
the following Youth Council members: Alexis Arp, Maggie Black, McCoy Bush, Ashen Doty, 
Raegan Downham, Dylan Fertig, Julia Horst, Keiran Loughran, Emily Lucero, Nickolas Metheny, 
Kaylee Sanchez, Ken itra Shanks, Dominick Singleton and Ga rrett Vickery. President Rinne 
expressed appreciation to the group and their parents for their participation  and support 
respectively. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on t he agenda.)  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded 
by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with 
the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no” and President Rinne who did not vote. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 14, 2018 .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on May 16, 2018 .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict (business interest in voucher payable to Cowboy D odge, 
Inc.) and vacated Council Chambers .  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs as 
  
presented, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present in Council Chambers with the exception of President Rinne who did not vote.   
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to Council Chambers. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee 
Schedule.  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, provided information about the proposed 
expansion (adding an additional route) of the yard waste program, and advised she had no objection 
to not expanding the program if that was the desire of the g overning body.  Ms. Nemecek, upon 
inquiry, discussed the 2014 HDR rate study and information on the yard waste program, which 
has about 375 future customers on a waiting list, and elements involved with adding one additional 
yard waste pick-up route.  Jeffrey Dierksen expressed concerns about the yard waste program and 
his belief that existing customers shouldn’t subsidize a new route. Upon inquiry by Mr. Dierksen, 
President Rinne advised the sanitation fee schedule is reviewed annually.  Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. White reported there was no recommendation on the item from the Committee.  
Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Mr. Shanor, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal,  moved to amend by adding  a Note 16 at the end of the schedule as 
follows: No revenues realized from the 5% sanitation fee increase may be used on payroll until 
such time as the construction and equipment objectives identified in the 2014 HDR st udy have 
been completed in full.  Discussion included: Construction and equipment objectives; solid waste 
enterprise fund; past fee increases; landfill expansion and closure costs; vehicle replacements and 
sanitation employee salary increases.   During discussion, Ms. Nemecek responded to questions 
involving sanitation and landfill operations, expenses and budget; anticipated future fee increases, 
and the landfill plan, and commented on the 3% pay for performance employee funds included in 
the FY2019 solid waste budget and the need to retain employees.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr.  Laybourn voting 
“no” and President Rinne who did not vote.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present (including President Rinne) with the exception of Mr.  
Johnson and Mr. Luna voting “no”. (#4229) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities.  Randy 
Hays, Board of Public Utilities (BOPU), submitted a hand -out (on file with City Clerk’s office) 
which he reviewed regarding the Board’s recommendation for a 3% rate increase for both water 
and sewer funds, and explained factors involved in proposing the rate  adjustments.  Mr. Hays 
provided information on how rates are assessed for multi-family vs single family residential units 
and, upon inquiry, noted the reasons for decreases in funding amounts for operational and 
maintenance, and capital expenditures affiliated with BOPU’s proposed FY2019 budget.  Jeff rey 
Dierksen questioned location identification of lead pipes relative to replacement of water mains, 
and the different rate tiers for multiple vs. single family residences with Mr. Hays providing 
information in response.  Astrid commented on fair allocation rate structures , suggesting rates be 
based upon the size of a residence, and reviewing older portions of the City to determine the 
location and replacement of lead pipes.  Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes’ – all members of the governing body present with the 
exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no” and President Rinne who did not vote. 
  
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2018 and ending June 30, 2019. Stephanie 
Lowe, President, Cheyenne Public Employees Association, spoke in support of the proposed 3% 
employee pay for performance funding contained in the budget, noting a performance based plan 
will assist with retaining employees.  Officer Manny Fardell a, Cheyenne Police Department, 
commented in support of competitive wages; consideration of needs vs. wants; 3% performance 
pay, and the value of employees.  Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Mr. Case moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Case moved to amend by removing 
$100,000.00 from reserves and placing it into the Abandoned Building line item, seconded by Mr. 
Cook.  Discussion included use of taxpayer’s funds vs. neighborhoods taking care of blighted 
properties through suc h mechanisms as property covenants; utilizing funding from recurring 
revenue instead of reserves; enforcing existing codes relative to blighted properties, and limited 
staffing levels currently existing for addressing nuisance violations and abatements thr ough the 
Code Enforcement office.  During discussion Ron Downey, City Treasurer, provided information 
on possible additional funding sources for the Fight the Blight program (i.e. Abandoned Building 
line item).  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, 
Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Shanor.  (President  Rinne did not vote).  
Mr. Case moved to amend by removing $21,000.00 from reserves and placing it into the Animal 
Shelter line item, seconded by  Mr. Cook.  Discussion included utilizing funding from recurring 
revenue instead of reserves, and Animal Shelter expenses and reduced hours in which it is open to 
the public.  During discussion and upon inquiry, Bob Fecht, Director, Cheyenne Animal Shelter , 
provided information on methods that had been reviewed to meet available budgetary funding vs. 
Shelter needs; decision to reduce hours, and plans to hire a second veterinarian.  Motion failed.  
Voting “no” – all members of  the governing body present except President Rinne who did not 
vote.  Discussion followed on departmental supplemental budget requests noted in the working 
budget book, specifically Fire and Rescue Department requests; amount of funding that would be 
needed to include supplemental reques ts in the budget; inclusion of revenue in the budget from 
proposed sale of city property that has not yet been approved for sale; funding from reserves vs. 
recurring revenue, and employee raises and benefits.  Upon inquiry during discussion, Chief Greg 
Hoggatt, Fire and Rescue Department, provided information on supplemental requests for his 
department involving equipment replacements; plans to create a life cycle value for equipment; 
lease/option to purchase equipment scenario; department overtime and trai ning; and response to 
calls through dispatch involving Fire and Rescue staff as well as ambulance response.  Mr. Shanor 
moved to amend by removing the approximately $771,818.00 proposed to be expended on merit 
(i.e. pay for performance) raises in the stand ard budget and removing the entire $6,534,851.00 
proposed in supplemental requests, seconded by Mr. Case.  Detective Aaron Willmarth, Police 
Protective Association, and Ms. Lowe commented in support of the value of City employees and 
pay for performance be nefits.  Discussion included the pay for performance plan, which is still 
being developed by the administration, and implementation timeframe.  Mr. Downey and Eric 
Fountain, Mayor’s Chief of Staff, provided information in response to inquiries regarding th e 
performance plan and status regarding implementation, with Mr. Downey noting that, if revenues 
are appropriated to do so, the budget could be supplemented at a later date to implement the plan.  
  
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook , Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna, Mr. 
Shanor and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal (President Rinne did not vote).  
Mr. Shanor moved to amend by adding the following expenditures into the standard budget 
request, seconded by Mr. Luna:  Add $16,2 68.00 in Facilities and Maintenance for what was 
identified as a FY2018 budgetary insufficiency; add in Police Admin proposed supplemental items 
of $65,156.00; add in Police Patrol proposed supplemental items of $292,471.00; Fire Admin add 
$45,126.00; Fire Training add $50,000.00; Fire Suppression add $125,000.00 for contractual wage 
adjustment and overtime; City Treasurer professional services add $30,000.00; to transfer an 
engineer position currently in the 5th penny budget to the City Engineer budget and add $33,000.00 
(other half in 5th penny funds); Planning and Development historic preservation grant matches add 
$6,000.00; economic support to Animal Shelter add $21,000.00, and add $50,000.00 for Fight the 
Blight efforts, for a total of approximately $741,021.00, and that the City Treasurer may make any 
adjustments needed due to any inaccuracies in the numbers enumerated in the amendment as well 
as if the expenditures do not add up to the proposed revenues the treasurer will reduce his sales tax 
estimate accordingly to match revenues to expenditures.  Discussion on the amendment included 
the following:  Verification of funding amount of $40,000.00 needed for the City Engineer 
position; areas included in funding for Police Admin and Police Patrol line item s, including two 
additional police officer positions, and clarification of Patrol funding amount of $292,473.00 not 
$292,471.00; Fight the Blight program funding sources, and resources for nuisance enforcement.  
Upon inquiry, Mr. Downey provided informatio n on potential Community Development Block 
Grant funds that may be available for the Fight the Blight program.  Upon inquiry during 
discussion, Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, stated her concurrence with the proposed 
amendment regarding the Facili ties and Maintenance budget but indicated an additional 
$10,000.00 is needed in the Public Works Admin budget for the City’s fleet vehicle pool costs .  
Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, Chief Hoggatt, and Mr. Downey also concurred with the 
proposed amendments relative to their respective budgets.  Mr. Downey clarified the general fund 
expenditure amount budgeted for merit based increases was $525,000.00 and the total of 
$771,818.00 for merit increases included other funds (i.e. 5th penny, 6th penny, sanitation and fleet, 
etc.).  Mr. Shanor moved to amend the amendment by adding $10,000.00 to the Public Works 
Admin budget and increasing the amount of $33,000.00 to $40,000.00 for the City Engineer 
position line item, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Downey advised adjustment would 
need to be made to the budget (due to previously approved amendment and the proposed 
amendments, if approved) to add an additional $525,000.00 in expenditures to the general fund.  
Motion to amend the amendment carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no” and President Rinne who did not vote.  
Motion to approve the amendment, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no” and President Rinne who 
did not vote.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Downey advised with the amendments the general fund budget 
was short by $246,525.00.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend as follows, seconded by Mr. Case:  Create 
a one-time revenue line item with an amount of $1,000,000.00 from res erves; create a one -time 
expenditure line item with $1,000,000.00 from reserves to be spent as follows:  $629,000.00 to 
Fire Suppression for self-contained breathing apparatus and other necessary equipment as deemed 
necessary by the Fire Chief; the remainder, approximately $371,000.00, to be spent at the Mayor’s 
discretion only on items identified in the proposed 2019 supplemental budget and of those items, 
only ones that are not payroll related; that the City’s total full -time employee count be limited to 
  
570 for FY2019, and for the Mayor to find the $246,525.00 in recurring revenues and recurring 
expenditure decreases to balance the general fund budget as well as to account for the other funds 
that were removed for merit raises to find another expenditure in those line items other than the 
merit raises.  Discussion included Fire Chief discretion and authorization to utilize the $629,000.00 
as he deemed appropriate.  Friendly amendment was offered by Mr. Roybal and accepted by Mr. 
Shanor and Mr. Case, as the maker and second to the motion to amend, to add “at his discretion” 
at the end of the phrase “as deemed necessary by the Fire Chief”.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no” 
and President Rinne who did not vote. 
 
Following a 10 -minute recess, President Rinne reconvened the meeting at 8:41 p.m.  
Motion to approve the budget ordinance as amended four times carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body prese nt with the exception  of Mr. Johnson voting “no” and 
President Rinne who did not vote. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 2.2.2 Planned Development Plan, Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, Section 5.1.3 
Official Zoning Map, and Section 5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from Laramie County Sweetgrass Planned 
Unit Development (PUD) to City of Cheyenne Sweetgrass PUD for 2,349.54 acres of land known 
as the Sweetgrass Land Area, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of 
College Drive and east of Avenue C) .  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on second reading with revised ma p, seconded by Mr . Luna.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of President Rinne 
who did not vote. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne for Fiscal Year 2018-2019 – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2018-2019 – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Repealing in its entirety Chapter 12.16, Trees and 
Shrubs, and creating a new Chapter 12.16, Trees, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, 
of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. 
Johnson and Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle 
Ridge, 13th Filing, a replat of a portion of Tract A, Saddle Ridge 12th Filing, a portion of Lot 1, 
Block 1, Cheyenne Hills Church Subdivision and a portion of the east half of Section 25, T.14N., 
R.66W., of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and including 
Pershing Boulevard, east of Farthing Road; also located south of Sage Road, east of Gunsmoke 
Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5928) 
  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Woods Landing Estates, 2nd Filing, a replat of Tract 1, Woods Landing Estates, situated in the 
SE¼ of Section 14, T.14N., R.66W., of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located 
northwest of the intersection of Storey Boulevard and Whitney Road ).  Motion ( per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#5929) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Expressing the City of Cheyenne’s desire and commitment to facilitating 
commercial passenger air service at the Cheyenne Regional  Airport both now and in the future . 
Mr. Johnson declared a conflict of interest (business interest) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. 
White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to amend the “Now therefore 
be it resolved” clause by adding the words “safe and reliable” in the 3 rd line following the word 
“support”, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Wendy Volk, Cheyenne Regional Air Focus Team (CRAFT), 
provided information on CRAFT ; spoke in support of the resolution and commented on 
community benefits involving local passenger air service.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers with the exception of President  
Rinne who did not vote .  Discussion included:  P urpose of the resolution ; new voter approved 
airport terminal currently under construction; local partnerships/stakeholders; facilitating air 
passenger service for economic development and community benefits, and widespread community 
collaborative efforts to provide commercial passenger air service.  It was noted that if the resolution 
was adopted, payment would not be allocated until discussions between all partnership and 
stakeholders were completed.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present in Council Chambers with the exception of President Rinne who did 
not vote .  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Johnson returned to Council Chambers. 
(#5930) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department 
of Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Program Grant to provide the local 
match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit program, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C. § 5311.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5931) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 
Sweetgrass 1st Filing Subdivision situated in the N½ of Section 16, Township 13 North, Range 66 
West, of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of College Drive and 
east of Avenue C) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the continuation of the Optional One Percent Sales Tax for 
calendar years 2019 through 2022 and pledging that all revenues derived from this tax will be used 
for projects described in this Resolution – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – To establish uniform procedures, fees, costs, and charges for inspecting, 
copying, and producing public records – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution No. 5680 pertaining to adoption of a revised 
Cheyenne-Laramie County Board of Health fee schedule for v arious services and inspectio ns – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving sanitary sewer service, by User’s Agreement, with Rocky 
Mountain REI, LLC, a county tract in SE¼, SW¼, Section 26, Township 14 North, Range 66 West 
of the 6t h P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
White) 
 
[CA] Standard Service Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Information Technology 
Division, and CenturyLink Sales Solutions, Inc., for Primary Rate Interface (PRI) 
telecommunications services for the City’s telephone system .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6842) 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Little America Hotels & Resorts, Inc., 
for placement of a billboard advertising sign on the Belvoir Ranch (revenue to the City).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6843) 
 
[CA] User Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events 
Department, and Cheyenne Stampede Junior “A” Hockey, LLC, for hockey practices and games 
to be held a t the City -owned Ice and Events Center (revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6844) 
 
[CA] Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AM Signal, Littleton, Colorado, 
for traffic signal control software and affiliated hardware (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $247,158.56). (#6845) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Asbestos and 
Technical Services, Inc., for services for the demolition and disposal of the residential structure 
located at 815 Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount 
not to exceed $43,000.00, seconded by Mr. Case.  Upon inquiry, Eric Fountain, Mayor’s Chief of 
Staff, explained potential long-term community and neighborhood benefits of re -developing the 
property may off-set demolition costs.  Ron Downey, City Treasurer, concurred that the chance of 
recouping demolition costs would be minimal . Discussion included:  Public health and safety 
issues involving blighted properties within the community, and status of any liens upon the 
property.  Mr. Fountain stated the only known lien on the property was a tax lien.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson 
voting “no” and President Rinne who did not vote. (#6827) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Noel Griffith Jr. & 
Associates Architects for analytical and design  engineering for the construction of a new 
Municipal Court at 308 West 17 th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming (1% Specific Purpose Sale s Tax).  
Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, explained the importance of acquiring a professional 
consultant for the project and reviewed the project’s timeline of events resulting in the agreement 
being submitted for the agenda.  She provided information on the Phase I environmental site 
assessment; recommendation to have a structural engineer conduct an assessment,  and the st ate 
  
asbestos program, and responded to inquiries regarding the project, condition of the building and 
contract services provided by TriHydro.  Discussion included:  Acquiring additional information 
prior to making a determination on the agreement; a nalysis and assessment of abatement costs; 
estimated overall project cost; services from a structural engineer and developing a scope of work 
relative to a structural assessment ; asbestos abatement , and terms of the property purchase 
agreement relative to the closing timeframe.  During discussion, Ms. Nemecek and Amy Allen, 
City Engineer, provided information on structural engineer services vs. environmental engineer 
services, and coordination with the state asbestos program staff.  Noel Griffith, Noel Griffith Jr. & 
Associates Architects,  explained the fees and services involved with the proposed agreement; 
stated there is a structural engineer affiliated with his firm  who c ould conduct the structural 
assessment and help determine the asbestos remediation issue but they need a contract first to move 
forward.  He expressed his belief the entire project should be able t o be completed with in the 
amount of funding available  and, upon inquiry, advised he would be able to provide an estimate 
for the financial cost of acquiring a structural engineer assessment and anticipated asbestos 
removal cost prior to the next City Council meeting.  Upon inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, 
advised the property purchase and sale agreement wasn’t fully executed by both parties until today, 
so timeframe requirements  contained in the purchase agreement haven’t started yet, and she is 
working with the property owner’s agent on a closing schedule.  Mr. White reported there was no 
recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.   Mr. Roybal moved to approve  (in the 
amount of $657,500.00), seconded by Mr. Case. Mr. Shanor moved to postpone to June 11, 2018, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal. Comment followed in support of the postponement to allow time for Mr. 
Griffith to assist with a potential amendment to the agreement.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of President Rinne who did 
not vote. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropoli tan 
Planning Organization, and Kimley Horn, Denver, Colorado, for the East Dell Range Boulevard / 
U.S. 30 Corridor Study - 2018 (MPO planning funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc., for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping, and other activities 
during the 2018 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Chey enne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses 
owned by the Laramie County School District Number One to be used and operated for public 
transportation services during the 2018 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of U nderstanding between Cheyenne Frontiers Days, Inc., the City of 
Cheyenne and Laramie County School District Number One, for buses owned by the Laramie 
County School District Number One to be used and operated for public transportation services 
during the 2018 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for land 
owned by the United States Department of the Air Force located at F.E. Warren Air Force Base to 
  
be used and operated as a parking lot for public transportation services during the 2018 Cheyenne 
Frontier Days celebration -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/services for 
animal control and animal shelter services -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6793 between the City of Cheyenne and W.L. 
Contractors, Inc., for the 2018 Traffic Signal Installation Project to extend the completion  date 
(2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 9 to Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne, 
Community Recreation and Events Department, and RECCO, Inc., dba Five -R Co., for the 
Cheyenne Botanic Gard ens Project to increa se the guaranteed maximum price -- referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-10-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works 
Department, and Modern Electric Co., Casper, Wyoming, for the 2018 Traffic Signal Upgrades 
Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept ed bid in an 
amount not to exceed $448,019.75). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-11-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering 
Department, and Simon Contractors, for the 2018 Chip Seal #1 Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax). 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $880,800.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of RFP-16-18 for a contract for furnishing and installing a parking acc ess, 
permit and revenue control system – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the June 14, 2018 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Membership Business Meeting to be 
held in Pinedale, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (Councilman Dicky Shanor, 
Official Voting Delegate; Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, Alternate Voting Delegate). 
 
 Appointments of John Brewster and Susan Brown to the Historic Preservation Board.  Mr. 
Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present with the exception of President Rinne who did not vote.   
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday , June 11, 2018 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a restaurant liquor 
license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Mancuso’s LLC d/b/a Esther’s, 2114 
Warren Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, June 11, 2018 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, for proposed budgets for the City of 
Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2019. 
 
  
 Under other business:  
 
 Mr. Johnson provided an update on the Depot Plaza splash pad fundraising efforts to date, 
and Mr. Case advised there will be a fundraiser at Danielmark’s Brewery on June 9,  2018 
benefitting the project. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 9:34 p.m. 
   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 9, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  