MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-06-11 | CLIP_ID: 659 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 659

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 11, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White .  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, 
and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Roybal, and pursuant to supp ort received 
by Mr. Cook  and Mr. White , Agenda Item #18 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon 
request by Mr. Johnson, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook and Dr. Rinne, Agenda 
Item #30(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining 
Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 29, 2018 .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. 
Johnson voting “no”. 
  
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor 
license filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Mancuso’s LLC d/b/a Esther’s, 2114 Warren Avenue, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been 
met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for proposed budgets 
for the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2019.   There being no 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended b y the Board of Public Utilities.  
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes’ – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#4230) 
  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2018 and ending June 30, 2019. Stephanie 
Lowe, President, Cheyenne Public Employees Association  (CPEA), spoke in support of the 
proposed 3% allocation affiliated with implementation of  a merit based pay plan, citing the need 
for competitive wages, and commented in support of services provided by City employees.   She 
noted CPEA  will be working with the administration on implementing the pay plan.  Susan a 
Montana also spoke in favor of being able to reward employees through a merit increase program 
and encouraged support for the 3% evaluation plan.  Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Dr. Rinne moved to 
amend by initiating a 3% merit-based pay increase for all non-uniformed employees allocated only 
after adoption and implementation of a merit-based pay increase plan to be taken from individual 
funds as appropriate from the general fund, seconded by Mr. Luna.  D r. Rinne moved to amend 
the amendment by adding the following language after the word “plan” in the 3rd line: “as approved 
by the Governing Body”, seconded by Mr. Case.  Upon inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, 
confirmed no merit pay raises will be given until the pay for performance plan is approved by the 
governing body.  Discussion included: Time frame in which the Mayor anticipates submitting the 
plan to the governing body; patterning the plan upon the recent plan implemented by the Board of 
Public Utilities (BOPU) and sharing of resources on the performance plan between BOPU and the 
City; concern with approving funding for the plan prior to approval of the plan by the governing 
body; purpose of the plan to provide an evaluation system not just a monet ary increase system, 
and implementation of the plan by December 31, 2018.  During discussion, Dr. Rinne raised a 
point of order that comments should be limited to the motion to amend the amendment on the floor 
with Mayor Orr ruling comments could continue.   During discussion, Darrin Hass, Deputy 
Director, Human Resources, stated compilation and implementation of the plan is on an aggressive 
schedule with an anticipated implementation date of December 31, 2018.  Motion to amend the 
amendment carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comment of clarification 
was made that not all employees may receive a 3% increase under the new plan.  Motion to amend, 
as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Dr. Rinne moved t o 
amend by initiating the on-going maintenance of the downtown trees in the amount of $110,000.00 
which includes one full-time arborist and a portion of a 45 -foot aerial lift truck to be taken from 
5th penny sales tax fund overage collections, seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Discussion topics 
included:  Concern with paying a salary position from 5 th penny funds; new arborist position and 
affiliation with the ordinance amending the tree chapter in City Code also on the current agenda 
(Item #13), and removal of th e position in the past budget.  Upon inquiry, Ron Downey, City 
Treasurer, stated 5 th penny funds are an addition to the general fund and provided a brief 
explanation of future funding.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Case, Mr. Johnson, 
Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor and Mayor Orr.  Voting “no” – Mr. Cook, Dr. 
Rinne and Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by increasing the full -time employee cap 
number from 568 to 570 to include an additional arborist for the Forestry Division  and a senior 
heavy equipment operator for the Compost Division, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Discussion followed and included 
the following topics:  S upplemental department budget re quests; deferred maintenance needs ; 
  
funding amount of $250,000.00 contained in the proposed Public Works budget for on -going 
maintenance needs, and keeping the former “model” of a budget line item for capital improvements 
and deferred maintenance in the ge neral fund .  During discussion and upon inquiry, Vicki 
Nemecek, Director of Public Works, confirmed solid waste department employees were included 
in the 570 employee count; Mr. Downey advised any monies left in the current capital 
improvements fund budget  would be transferred to reserves at the end of the current fiscal year 
but could be reallocated through re-appropriation, and Mayor Orr provided information generally 
on the budget and proposed funding of $250,000.00 as a start in addressing maintenance needs.  
Mr. Shanor moved to amend by moving $250,000.00 from the facilities maintenance line item 
contained in the propose d Public Works budget; r e-create the capital improvement line item for 
the FY2019 budget and carry over any remaining balance in that line item from this fiscal year 
into next year’s budget, and include the $250,000.00 in the FY2019 capital improvement line item 
for use toward deferred maintenance and identified needs affiliated with departmental FY2019 
supplemental budget requests, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mayor Orr advised the funding was 
placed in the Public Works budget as that department oversees faci lities, which has the greatest 
maintenance needs.  Discussion included:  Average amount of funding in the capital improvement 
line item; retaining $78,000 in the Public Works facilities budget for payment of annual 
maintenance requirements and other necess ities for facilities; remaining funds in the capital 
improvement line item for the current budget; need for the state legislature to reform the tax system 
to allow for more stable funding sources for municipalities to address infrastructure needs; 
prioritizing maintenance needs for use of the funding; current Capital Improvement Plan (CIP), 
and providing the Mayor and department directors flexibility in requesting real -time 
recommendations for use of the money as opposed to “locking into” the CIP.   During discussion 
and upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek advised the $250,000.00 was an additional request to the budget 
and that $78,000.00 should remain in the facilities maintenance line item to pay for annual 
maintenance responsibilities and other facilities maintenanc e necessities.  Mr. Downey provided 
information on the amount of funding in the current budget for capital improvements 
($820,000.00) that would go into reserves but could be re -appropriated and the amount of 
$328,765.00 for capital improvements in the proposed FY2019 budget.  Mayor Orr commented on 
the lack of adoption of the CIP by the governing body.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  
The following is a summary of the proposed budget , including the aforementioned amendments : 
General Fund, $ 53,750,797; Weed and Pest, $58 3,147; Youth Alternatives Grants, $ 635,008; 
Development Impact Fees, $ 151,200; Recreation Programs, $1,1 59,555; Community 
Development Block Grant, $ 398,422; Law Enforcement Grants, $ 221,584; Transportation 
Planning, $870,097; FTA Transit Grant, $2, 447,162; Juvenile Justice, $ 73,037; Special Friends, 
$77,394; Speci fic Purpose Option Tax, One Percent Sales Tax 2015 -18, $11,185,325; Youth 
Activities/Ropes, $18,000; Golf Facilities, $201,000; Fleet Maintenance, $3,949,084; Solid Waste 
Management, $16,573,784; Civic Center, $ 2,177,792; Ice & Events Center, $644,760; Perpetual 
Care, $2,000; Total City, $9 5,119,148; Water Enterprise, $2 4,070,900; Sewer Enterprise, 
$13,081,450; Total Appropriation, $132,271,498. (#4231) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 2.2.2 Planned Development Plan, Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, Section 5.1.3 
Official Zoning Map, and Section 5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Unified 
  
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from Laramie County Sweetgrass Planned 
Unit Development (PUD) to City of Cheyenne Sweetgrass PUD for 2,349.54 acres of land known 
as the Sweetgrass Land Area, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (locat ed south of 
College Drive and east of Avenue C) .  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. (#4232) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne for Fiscal Year 2018-2019.  Mr. White moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, it was noted the only change 
from the previous ordinance was the fiscal year dates.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2018-2019.  Mr. White moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, it was noted the only change 
from the previous ordinance was the fiscal year dates.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Repealing in its entirety Chapter 12.16, Trees and 
Shrubs, and creating a new Chapter 12.16, Trees, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, 
of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Discussion topics included:  Past maintenance responsibility for care 
of trees in the downtown area; tree replacement costs; expertise that is needed involving 
maintenance knowledge and diseased and dangerous trees; funding of a new staff position in Urban 
Forestry affiliated with the ordinance; Urban Forestry guidelines , purpose and promulgation (i.e. 
Wyoming Administrative Procedure Act) of same; City forestry staff services on public and private 
property; use of revenue from fees that are generated; improved notification process to property 
owners; local arborists’ knowledge of the proposed ordinance, and simplified provisions and 
additional flexibility provided through the proposed ordinance.  During discuss ion, Alessandra 
McCoy Fakelman, Assistant City Attorney, and Mark Ellison, City Forester, provided information 
in response to inquiries.  Motion to approve carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Shanor voting “no”. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending various chapters and sections contained 
within Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
pertaining to notarization of applicant signatures – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
White) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 5.12.140, Persons under the age of 
twenty-one (21) years – Restrictions – Provisions, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt 
Beverages, of the Code o f the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis 
to CB Community Business for Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Simpson Estates, Cheyenne, Wyoming 
(located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Col lege Drive and Cheyenne Street) – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR Medium-Density Residential to 
MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis for Lots 1 -5, Block 19, North Cheyenne, 2nd Filing, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Yellowstone Road and 
Prairie Hills Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 
Sweetgrass 1st Filing Subdivision situated in the N½ of Section 16, Township 13 North, Range 66 
West, of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of College Drive and 
east of Avenue C).  Susana Montana, Planning and Development office, provided information on 
a conceptual design for a portion of the greenway path involving ADA compliance and a tunnel to 
be constructed under College Drive near Laramie County Community College.  Discussion 
included future phases for the Sweetgrass development project and governing body review , and 
continuity of greenway paths in the vicinity .  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#5932) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the continuation of the Optional One Percent Sales Tax for 
calendar years 2019 through 2022 and pledging that all revenues derived from this tax will be used 
for projects described in this Resolution.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5933) 
 
 RESOLUTION – To establish uniform procedures, fees, costs, and charges for inspecting, 
copying, and producing public records.  Mr. White reported there was no recommendation on the 
item from Finance Committee.  Mr. White, as sponsor of the resolution, explained a new resolution 
(Agenda item #23) addressing the same topic was being introduced on the current meeting agenda 
and it was his intent to not adopt this resolution but to consider the new one instead.  Mr. Case 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution No. 5680 pertaining to adoption of a revised 
Cheyenne-Laramie County Board of Health fee schedule for v arious services and inspections .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5934) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving sanitary sewer service, by User’s Agreement, with Rock y 
Mountain REI, LLC, a county tract in SE¼, SW¼, Section 26, Township 14 North, Range 66 West 
of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5935) 
 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – To establish uniform procedures, fees, costs, and charges for inspecting, 
copying, and producing public records – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1 , 2018 and endin g June 30, 2019 – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the 
Fiscal Year beginning July 1 , 2018 and ending June 30, 2019 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the expedient redevelopment of the building located at 1602 
Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, commonly referred to as the historic Hynds Building, and 
the lot adjacent to and west of the Hynds Building known as The Hol e – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Roybal and Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving a First Amendment to Indenture of Trust and certain other 
documents and matters related to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Refunding Revenue Bonds (St. 
Mary’s School Project) Series 2015 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Noel Griffith Jr. & 
Associates Architects for analytical and design engineering for the cons truction of a new 
Municipal Court at 308 West 17 th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming (1% Specific Purpose Sale s Tax).  
Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, advised, per previous discussions regarding the services 
agreement, estimated cost of construction and building condition concerns, Mr. Griffith’s firm has 
executed a separate contract with the City to provide a budget analysis, and structural and asbestos 
assessment, and requested non -approval of the proposed Professional Services Agreement.  Mr. 
White reported there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Dr. Rinne 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne,  Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization, and Kimley Horn, Denver, Colorado, for the East Dell Range Boulevard / 
U.S. 30 Corridor Study - 2018 (MPO planning funds) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried  
(amount not to exceed $97,145.00). (#6849) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc., for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping, and other activities 
during the 2018 Che yenne Frontier Days celebration.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6850) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses 
owned by the Laramie County School District Number One to be used and operated for public 
transportation services during the 2018 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6851) 
  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Cheyenne Frontiers Days, Inc., the City of 
Cheyenne and Laramie County School District Number One, for buses owned by the Laramie 
County School District Number One to be used and operated for public transportation services 
during the 2018 Che yenne Frontier Days celebration .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6852) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne  Frontier Days, Inc., for land 
owned by the United States Department of the Air Force located at F.E. Warren Air Force Base to 
be used and operated as a parking lot for public transportation services during the 2018 Cheyenne 
Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6853) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/services for 
animal cont rol and animal shelter services .  Bob Fecht , Director, Cheyenne Animal Shelter, 
advised he requested postponement of the item at the last Finance Committee meeting as the 
FY2019 budget involving funding for the Shelter had not yet been approved, and since the budget 
ordinance was approved earlier in the current meeting, he requested consideration to approve the 
agreement with an amended funding amount due to budget ordinance action.  Mr. White moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to postpone to June 25, 2018, seconded by 
Mr. Luna.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Laybourn.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, 
Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor, Mr. White and Mayor Orr.  
Mr. Shanor moved to amend by changing the dollar amount in Section 4(b) fro m $24,916.67 per 
month and $299,000.00 as the not to exceed amount to $26,666.67 per month and a not to exceed 
amount of $320,000.00, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of M r. Johnson voting “no”.  Main motion as 
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. 
Johnson voting “no”. (#6854) 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Information Technology Division, and 
Xerox by Xerox Agent XESI for a high volume pr oduction black and white copier – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for the 
use of the Cheyenne Civic Center for youth education concerts – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Temporary Construction Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
and E.J. Harmon a/k/a Joe Harmon, for construction purposes in connection with the construction 
of the Christensen Road Corridor and Overpass (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax)  – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Data Transfer 
Solutions, LLC, Fort Collins, Colorado, for the Pavement Condition Survey Project (2015 -2018 
1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Purchasing and Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, 
and WatchGuard, Inc., Allen, Texas, fo r in-car and body-worn camera systems, components and 
peripheral devices and related software and support services – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6793 between the City of Cheyenne and W.L. 
Contractors, Inc., for the 2018 Traffic Signal Installation Project to extend the completion date 
(2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6793) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 9 to Contract No. 6219 between the City of Cheyenne, 
Community Recreation and Events Department, and RECCO, Inc., dba Five -R Co., for the 
Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Project to increa se the guaranteed maximum price .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $91,723.21). (#6219) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6305 between the City of Cheyenne and RBC 
Global Asset Management (U.S.), Inc. to extend the contract term for managing the City’s 
investment portfolio – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Consideration of RFP-16-18 for a contract for  furnishing and installing a parking access, 
permit and revenue control system.   Captain Nathan Buseck, Police Department, reviewed the 
project’s history, including reorganization of the parking patrol staff, parking structure permits and 
parking enforcement which are now a part of Police Department operations.  Captain Buseck 
provided information on proposed improvements and processes through implementation of the 
proposed new system, citing new technologies that will be incorporated; Parking Transition Team; 
public communications on the proposed system; RFP responses and elements of the recommended 
proposal to be accepted that will provide better enforcement and revenue management and more 
user convenience to customers; anticipated contract costs;  revenue assistance for paying parking 
structure revenue bonds, and use of license plate reader cameras and affiliated software.  Vicki 
Nemecek spoke in support of the new system; Astrid, owner of the Plains Hotel, expressed 
concerns about parking in the d owntown area, and Thomas Reddington expressed his belief that 
free parking should be considered.  Upon inquiries by governing body members, Captain Buseck 
responded with additional information on current parking enforcement and parking permit 
procedures, clarifying that the fee structure was not changing, and components of the proposed 
new updated system involving technology.  Mr. White moved to approve (proposal from Passport 
Labs, Inc., Charlotte, North Carolina) in an amount not to exceed $574,002.58, se conded by Mr. 
Case.  Discussion included system costs vs . unknown revenue amounts that may be generated 
through use of the new system; current manual “chalking” that is conducted for enforcing overtime 
parking violators; purpose of the new system , and post poning the item to receive additional 
information.  Mr. Case moved to postpone to June 25, 2018, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. 
Reddington inquired about public comment opportunities if the item were postponed with Mayor 
Orr advising of the dates and times of the next Finance Committee and City Council meeting.  
Upon inquiry, Logan Sharpe, City Attorney’s office, advised a postponement would not affect 
provisions of the RFP and affiliated contract.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. 
Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna and Dr. Rinne.  Voting “no” – Mr. Roybal, 
Mr. Shanor, Mr. White and Mayor Orr. 
 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -28-18 for furnishing new computers and operating systems for 
the City of Cheyenne through the Information Technology Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-29-18 for furnishing 18 police vehicles with equipment installed 
for the Cheyenne Police Department (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -26-18 for furnishing one new 2019 cab and chassis, 4x4 with 
utility body installed for the City of Cheyenne, Traffic Di vision (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) -- 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Appointment of Frank Gerstenkorn to the City of Cheyenne Personnel Commission.   Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (Mayoral appointee). 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, June 25, 2018 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of retail 
liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Stults Management LLC d/b/a The 
Office Bar and Eatery, 1600 E. Pershing Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by 
Robert Moberly d/b/a Bob’s Place, 1600 E. Pershing Blvd.). 
 
 Announcement was made that two Calcuttas, benefitting Cheyenne area charities, will  be 
held as follows:  Thursday, July 19, 2018 beginning at 7:00 p.m. at the Redwood Lounge, 2105 
East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the 2018 Cheyenne Frontier Days 
Wild Horse Races, and Friday, July 27, 2018 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in t he Headquarters tent 
located in front of the Old West Museum, 4601 North Carey Avenue, Frontier Park, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming (10% of proceeds to bona fide charities). 
 
 Under other business:  
 
 Mr. Laybourn expressed appreciation for efforts made for budget pla nning sessions with 
staff in preparation of the FY2019 budget .  Mayor Orr thanked City Council members for their 
participation in the additional budget work sessions.   
 
Mr. Johnson expressed appreciation to those who attended the fundraiser at Danielsmark  
for the Depot Splash Pad Project, and Mr. Case noted approximately $2,000 has been raised so far 
in private funding toward the project. 
 
Mr. Johnson commented on issues current , as well as past, governing bodies and 
administrations face regarding the econ omy, budgets and municipal funding; community issues, 
and decision making, and thanked co-governing body members and City staff for their efforts. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:58 p.m. 
   
  
        Submitted by, 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 27, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  