MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-06-25 | CLIP_ID: 661 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 661

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 25, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott 
Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Absent: Rocky Case.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City 
Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, announced agenda item #26(d) was 
inadvertently placed on the Consent Agenda and, therefore, sh ould not be included as a Consent 
Agenda item.  Mr. Johnson declared a conflict of interest (personal interest in Consent Agenda 
item #19) and vacated Council Chambers.  Upon request by Mr. Roybal, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Roybal and Mr. White, Agenda Item #20 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Upon request by Mr. White, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook and Dr. Rinne, Agenda 
Item #18 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining Consent 
Agenda items, seconded by Mr.  Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body  present in Council Chamber s with the exception of Dr.  Rinne voting “no”.  
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Johnson returned to Council Chambers. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 11 , 2018.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Cowboy 
Dodge, Inc.) and vacated Council Chambers.   Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs 
as presented, seconded by  Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal 
returned to Council Chambers. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a transfer of retail 
liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Stults Management LLC d/b/a The 
Office Bar & Eatery, 1600 E. Pershing Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming (License currently held 
by Robert Moberly d/b/a Bob’s Place, 1600 E. Pershing Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  There 
being no comments or input and  purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the 
hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
non-uniformed employees of the City of Che yenne for Fisc al Year 2018 -2019.  Reporting for 
  
Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr.  
Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4233) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2018-2019.  Mr. White moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr . Cook.  Mr. White moved to  amend by 
substitute dated June 18, 2018, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, 
explained the substitute is due to the recently approved FY2019 budget which changed Exhibit B 
affiliated with Sergeant salary increases and the Department’s pay for performance plan.  Motion 
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.   Main motion as 
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4234) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING repealing in its entirety Chapter 12.16, Trees and Shrubs, 
and creating a new Chapter 12.16, Trees, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. White moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present with the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”. (#4235) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending various chapters and sections contained 
within Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
pertaining to notarization of applicant signatures.  Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Luna. Motion carried.   Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer , City Clerk,  explained 
removing the notarization requirement will not affect the ability to conduct  required applicant 
background checks.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 5.12.140, Persons under the age of 
twenty-one (21) years – Restrictions – Provisions, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt 
Beverages, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. White moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr.  Johnson. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments,  
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis 
to CB Community Business for Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Simpson Estates , Cheyenne, Wyoming 
(located at the southwest corner of the intersection of College Drive and Cheyenne Street). Ginger 
Brown, Coffey Engineering and Surveying, speaking on behalf of the developer, advised the zone 
change request is for a new express carwash business; stated measures will be taken to avoid 
vehicle congestion , and indicated the business will be utilizing  a water reclamation system.   
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Orr noted that construction for the business has not 
yet started.  Comment was made concerning drainage and traffic.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present. 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Sect ion 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR Medium -Density Residential to 
MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis fo r Lots 1 -5, Block 19, North Cheyenne, 2nd Filing, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Yellowstone Road and 
Prairie Hills Drive).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson. 
Upon inquiry, Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development Department, advised phone calls had been 
received inquiring about the proposed project (residential and commercial development) , but no 
one from the public made comment at the last Public Services Committee meeting.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson 
voting “no”. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 8.40.070, Food Stands or Pushcarts-
Mobile Food Trucks-Mobile Food Units-Temporary Parade Vendors-Business License Required-
Application, of Chapter 8.40, Food and Food Service Establishments, of Title 8, Health and Safety, 
of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, by creating a new Section 8.40.070(D) exempting 
lemonade stands operated by minor s under the age of eighteen (18) years from the provisions of 
this section – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Creating Section 15.08.031, Building Permit Fees – 
Exceptions for Incentivization Program, of Chapter 15.08, International Building Code Adopted, 
of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred 
to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
 RESOLUTION – To establish uniform procedures, fees, costs, and charges for inspecting, 
copying, and producing public reco rds.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  
Mr. White moved to amend the “Be  It Further Resolved” clause by changing the language of the 
last item, last line under Section 1 , Research or compilation services-Fee, to read “Actual staff 
time if above $150” , seconded by Mr.  Luna.  Upon inquiry, Mr. White explained the intent of 
calculating staff time is to utilize an employee’s hourly salary wage.  Motion to amend carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson and 
Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. (#5936)  
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1 , 2018 and endin g June 30, 2019.  Vicki Dugger, 
Executive Director, Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority, explained an adjustment to the 
proposed budget has been submitted due to changes in the downtown tree maintenance and parking 
subsidy programs, and pursuant to discussion at the Finance Committee meeting.  Ms. Dugger 
provided information on development incentives; proposed DDA re-branding; DDA 
administrative st affing level, and budget items funded through mill levy  monies.  Discussion 
included the following topics:  Changes to budget items included in a proposed substitute budget; 
development incentives and re -branding.  Upon inquiry by S ylvia Hackl, City Attorn ey, Ms. 
Dugger confirmed the parking subsidy line item had been removed from the revenue and 
expenditure area.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by M r. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to 
  
amend by substitute , seconded by Mr. Roybal.   Motion to amend  carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present  with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  
Discussion continued on the budgeted amount for re-branding; downtown infrastructure needs; 
governing body authority to approve the DDA’s annual budget; current status of any Memorandum 
of Understanding (MOU) between the City and DDA , and DDA projects involving City 
departments.  Mr. Laybourn moved to postpone the item to July 9, 2018, seconded by Dr. Rinne .  
Upon inquiry, Ms.  Dugger, Alessandra McCoy, Assistant City Attorney, and Robert Briggs, 
Director of Planning and Development, provided information on past MOU’s and a draft MOU 
that has been prepared as a work plan.  Discussion included DDA funds being spent equitably ; 
comment in support as well as non-support of  postponement; DDA strategic plan information 
provided during FY2019 budget workshops; DDA board members, as well as other boards 
affiliated with the City, being appointed by the governing body; DDA budget year based on a fiscal 
year, beginning July 1st, and, if the item is postponed, funds not being distributed from the City 
Treasurer on that date until the DDA budget is approved.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “yes” 
– Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.  Voting “no” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Luna, 
Mr. Roybal, Mr. White and Mayor Orr.  Mr. Laybourn moved to amend by striking $30,000 for 
re-branding from the DDA budget, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Laybourn advised, 
in conjunction with his amendment, it was his intent to instead place the amount of $30,000 in the 
Depot Plaza summer events budget.  Following brief comment, Dr. Rinne withdrew his second to 
the motion to amend.  Comments continued on DDA mill levy funding for certain budget items; 
re-branding; downtown impr ovements and infrastructure, and whether the governing body has 
oversight of DDA funds following adoption of the DDA budget.  During discussion, Ms. Dugger 
provided further information on re -branding plans and Ron Downey, City Treasurer, confirmed 
the City’s FY2019 includes $110,00.00 for the downtown tree program to be provided through the 
City.  Mr. White called for the question (to limit debate), seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing present with the except ion of Mr. Laybourn voting 
“no”.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#5937) 
 
[City Clerk note:  Due to a prior commitment, M r. Shanor vacated Council Chambers and was 
absent for the remainder of the meeting.] 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the 
Fiscal Year beginning July 1 , 2018 and ending June 30, 2019 .  Motion ( per Consent Ag enda) 
carried. (#5938) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Supporting the expedient redevelopment of the building located at 1602 
Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, commonly referred to as the historic Hynds Building, and 
the lot adjacent to and west of the Hynds Building known as The Hole.  Mr. White moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Roybal moved to postpone to July 9, 2018, seconded by Mr. Luna.  
It was noted postponement would allow time for a development plan on the project to be reviewed 
by the Planning Commission prior to action on the resolution.  Discussion followed and included:  
Probable changes to the resolution; suggestion that a City Council work session be held on the 
topic; public/private partnering and re-development of the property.  Motion to postpone carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving a First Amendment to Indenture of Trust and certain other 
documents and matters related to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Refunding Revenue Bonds (St. 
Mary’s School Project) Series 2015.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5939) 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application for federal funding through 
the Transportation Alternatives Program administered by the Wyoming Department of 
Transportation for the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of the City of Cheyenne and Frontier Days 
Multi-Use Path Project – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for North 
Gate Village, a replat of Lots 1 -5, Block 19, North Cheyenne, 2nd Filing, Che yenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Yellowston e Road and 
Prairie Hills Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Information  Technology Division, and 
Xerox by Xerox Agent XESI for a high volume pr oduction black and white copier.  Motion ( per 
Consent Agenda carried. (#6856) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for the 
use of the Cheyen ne Civic Cent er for youth education concerts.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (amount not to exceed $6,500.00). (#6857) 
 
[CA] Temporary Construction Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
and E.J. Harmon a/k/a Joe Harmon, for construction purposes in connection with the construction 
of the Christensen Road Corridor and Overpass (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $1,058.00). (#6858) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Data Transfer 
Solutions, LLC, Fort Collins, Colorado, for the Pavement Condition Survey Project (2015 -2018 
1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed  $124,820.00). 
(#6859) 
 
[CA] Purchasing and Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, 
and WatchGuard, Inc., Allen, Texas, for in -car and body-worn camera systems, components and 
peripheral devices and related software and support services .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (amount not to exceed $769,647.00). (#6860) 
 
[CA] Greenway Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District No. 1 for the purposes of constructing and maintaining a Greenway segment to be 
known as the Avenues Connector (WYDOT Transportation Alternatives Program grant) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and 
Laramie County, Wyoming, to provide public transportation services to Laramie County 
  
Community College and for an area of Laramie County immediately adjacent to the City (Revenue 
to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie County to provide 
Human Service agencies with the final installment of 2011-2014 1% Sales Tax overage money – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness, Alcohol Receiving Center, to 
provide alcohol and drug detoxification services to individuals – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor to provide a safe and secure 
environment to families who have been affected by abuse – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne  Housing Authority to provide 
supportive senior services – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Paycom, Inc., to outsource employee payroll 
and provide software for core Human Resource functionality – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6305 between the City of Cheyenne and RBC 
Global Asset Management (U.S.), Inc. to extend the contract term for managing the City’s 
investment portfolio.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6305) 
 
 Consideration of RFP-16-18 for a contract for furnishing and installing a parking access, 
permit and revenue control system.   Captain Nathan Buseck, Police Department, reviewed the 
purpose for implement ing a new system  which will assist with management of the City’s two 
parking structures and East surface lot, and provided information on a validated parking option for 
businesses; positive community business feedback for the new system; parking fees; system cost, 
including annual maintenance fees; accountability for users and uniform assessment, and types of 
permit users and revenue generation.   Astrid, owner, Plains Hotel, expressed concerns with 
expenditure cost for the system vs. benefits; supporting a “fragile downtown”, and cost of parking 
fines and parking rates.  Alane West reiterated comments she had made on the topic at the Finance 
Committee meeting, and suggested employees/property owners be allowed to park on upper levels 
in the parking structures and re -striping one-way streets to assist with on -street parking.  John 
Dinneen commented in support of the new system, citing recommendations and observations made 
in the Kimley-Horn downtown parking study, and stated the new system will provide better data 
and reports for future decisions related to downtown parking strategies.  Mr. White moved to 
approve the proposal submitted by Passport Labs, Inc., Charlotte, North Carolina , in an amount 
not to exceed $574,002.58, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Discussion followed in support of the new 
system and various affiliated features, and the different types of data that will be provided through 
the system.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#6861) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -28-18 for furnishing new computers and operating systems for 
the City of Cheyenne through the Information Technology Di vision (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  
  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept ed bid from Dell Marketing L.P., Round Rock, 
Texas, in an amount not to exceed $37,016.24).  
 
 Consideration of Bid #E-29-18 for furnishing 18 police vehicles with equipment installed 
for the Cheyenne Police Depa rtment (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Lieutenant Rob Dafoe, Police 
Department, provided information on the annual bid to replace vehicles, noting the bid includes 
three new vehicles, and advised it is a “turn key” bid , meaning the bid includes acquisition of 
vehicles with equipment also installed for better warranty provisions.  Upon inquiry, Lt. Dafoe 
explained the depar tment is working toward a fleet comprised of trucks instead of passenger 
vehicles, which should have a longer use life.  Mr. White advised there was no recommendation 
on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to accept the bid submitted by Spradley 
Barr Motors, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $797,400.00, seconded by Mr . Johnson .  
Comments were made that Community Service Officers ’ utilization of trucks will assist with 
response to vehicle collisions (hauling of equipment needed to assi st with debris clean -up) and 
transporting of bicycles, etc. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. 
 
 Consideration of Bid #E -26-18 for furnishing one new 2019 cab and chassis, 4x4 with 
utility body installed for the City of Cheyenne, Traffic Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax). Vicki 
Nemecek, Director of Public Works, explained the bid is for a replacement of a sign installation 
truck and that three vehicles will be submitted as trade-ins, and discussed vehicle problems with 
the current truck resulting in costly repairs.  Discussion followed on utilizing one of the trucks to 
be traded -in for Forestry in association with the downtown tree maintenance program.  Upon 
inquiry, Ms. Nemecek explained she had visited with Jason Sanchez, Deputy Director, Community 
Recreation and Events, who advised the current tower truck is not compatible for Forestry use due 
to its size and lack of maneuverability in certain downtown areas.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Sanchez 
confirmed the truck only has a single boom and is too large for working in downtown traffic areas.  
Mr. White moved to accept the bid submitted by Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, in an amount 
not to exceed $103,627.00, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Ms. Nemecek offered that purc hase of a 
new truck could be approved without trading-in the 2003 GMC truck.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
remove the 2003 GMC truck as a trade-in, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Comment was made that if the 
2003 GMC could not be utilized by Forestry it could be used as a trade-in for the new Forestry 
truck for the downtown tree maintenance program.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Dr. Rinne voting 
“no”.  Main motion as amended carried .  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present.  
 
Following a brief recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 8:24 p.m. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-25-18 for furnishing new refuse vehicles for the City of Cheyenne, 
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-30-18 for furnishing one new 2019 77-passenger bus for the City 
of Cheyenne, Latchkey Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-15-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works 
Department, and Containment Systems, LLC, Birmingham, Alabama, for the City of Cheyenne 
Landfill Permanent Litter Fence Project (Solid Waste Management f und) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Mancuso’s LLC 
d/b/a Esther’s, 2114 Warren Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.   
 
Appointment of Daniel Holbrook to the Downto wn Development Authority Board.   Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White. During inquiry on Board member composition 
(per City Code) , Chuck West advised Mr. Holbrook is a commercial property appraiser, who 
doesn’t own property in the DDA District, and that the majority balance of Board members leasing 
or owning property in the downtown district will be maintained.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote 
(Mayoral appointee). 
 
Reappointments of Scott Cowley and Dema Jo Gilbert to the Cheyenne/Laramie County 
Economic Development Joint Powers Board, and Allison Anderson, Richard Berry and Ronn 
Jeffrey to the Laramie County Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr . White.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (Mayoral appointees). 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, July 9, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a restaurant liquor 
license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for The Ridge Restaurant LLC d/b/a The 
Ridge Restaurant, 1820 Ridge Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, July 9, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public 
comments on a proposed trade of a portion of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne at 2303 
Westland Road, for a portion of real property owned by Roger E. Gill and Alec Yurgilevich at 
2305 Westland Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, July 9, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public comment 
and input on the “Development Plan for the Hynds/Hole (H2) Project” as proposed by the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority. 
 
 Under other business:  
 
 Jeff Dierksen questioned stormwater run -off drainage issues for some county residents 
allegedly due to a private residential development project within the City and whether the City 
would be addressing the situation.  Mayor Orr advised communication is planned with the County 
Engineer, and a City -County Joint Stormwater Drainage Committee may be formed  to discuss 
issues generally involving stormwater drainage.  Mr. Dierksen also commented on lead water pipes 
  
still in use by the Boar d of Public Utilities, and trash and debris along the Greenway path, 
suggesting a Keep Cheyenne Beautiful campaign be implemented.  Information in response was 
provided on BOPU water testing requirements, Greenway clean -up future plans, and trash 
containment requirements and pick -up services provided by Sanitation staff.  During comments 
on lead water pipes, Mark Court provided information regarding ph water levels. 
 
 Mark Court expressed concerns with recreational vehicles parked on residential streets and 
affiliated safety issues.  Frank Cole stated that certain neighborhoods have property covenants in 
place that prohibit RV parking in certain places; commented on oversized vehicles, trailers , etc. 
obstructing traffic signs, and suggested these types o f vehicles and equipment not be allowed to 
be parked on streets. 
 
 Mr. White congratulated City staff and volunteers for the great SuperDay event held during 
the past weekend. 
 
 Mr. Johnson commented on various topics, including the recent U.S. Supreme Cou rt 
opinion involving non-discrimination; advised of an upcoming Depot Plaza splash pad fundraising 
event, and expressed concern with a hedge blocking an intersection line-of-sight. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the me eting was 
officially adjourned at 8:59 p.m. 
   
        Submitted by, 
  
  
 
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 6, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  