MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-07-09 | CLIP_ID: 663 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 663

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 9, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne (arriving 
at 6:06 p.m.) , Scott Roybal, and Jeff White . Absent: Pete Laybourn and Dicky Shanor . Also 
present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance 
was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Roybal moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded 
by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 25, 2018.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Cowboy 
Dodge, Inc.) and vacated Council Chambers.   Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs 
as presented, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to 
Council Chambers. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor 
license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for The Ridge Restaurant LLC d/b/a The 
Ridge Restaurant, 1820 Ridge Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming.   There being no comments or input 
and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr  closed the hearing a nd referred the 
application to Finance Committee. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input on a proposed trade of 
a portion of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne at 2303 Westland Road, for a portion of 
real property owned b y Roger E. Gill and Alec Yurgilevich at 2305 Westland Road, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Jack Studley, City Surveyor, advised th e proposed trade is for City acquisition of a 
third parcel of land in the vicinity, and that property appraisals of the land have been completed 
and valuation amounts are within $1,000 of each other.  There being no further comments or input 
and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input  on the “Development 
Plan for the Hynds/Hole (H2) Project” as proposed by the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
  
Authority.  Vicky Dugger, Executive Director, Downtown Development Authority, explained the 
plan is related to a resolution also on the meeting agen da and presentation of the plan meets 
statutory requirements, and requested support for the resolution.   [City Clerk note:  Dr. Rinne 
joined the meeting in progress] Chuck West also spoke in support of the plan, the affiliated 
resolution and the proposed Project, noting he had been a member of the planning group involved 
in developing the plan.  John Volk expressed concerns with the City helping out of town developers 
when local downtown business owners have expended their own funds to enhance or remodel their 
properties.  He reviewed his knowledge of the Hynds building ownership and obstacles and 
limitations involved with building renovation; suggested the current owner of the Hynds should 
donate the building to the City; questioned the current sales value of the building, and, upon 
inquiry, discussed the benefits of the Christensen Road project as a public transportation network.  
Georgia Rowswell spoke in support of the H2 development project and use of the Hynds building 
for Arts Space programs and Lights On activities, citing Colorado’s Space to Create initiative.  Mr. 
White raised a point of clarification regarding purpose of the public hearing vs. future action on 
the affiliated resolution with Mayor Orr ruling that comments being made were relevant to the 
hearing topic.  Major Dorr spoke in opposition of the proposed project and expressed objection to 
“bailing out” the current owner of the Hynds.  Frank Cole and Dick Mason also spoke in opposition 
to the development plan, noting infrastructure problems with the building and high renovation 
costs, and utilizing City monies proposed for project assistance to instead be used to pay the City’s 
debt on the downtown parking structure.   Terry Kreuzer referred to Ms. Rowswell’s comments 
and encouraged use of the building for cultural and arts purposes, suggesting that gra nts could be 
pursued to assist with renovation costs.  Donn Edmunds commented on the cost of building 
renovation and stated the City needs to look at its other responsibilities .  There being no further 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending various chapters and sections contained 
within Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
pertaining to notarization of applicant signa tures.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4236) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 5.12.140, Persons under the age of 
twenty-one (21) years – Restrictions – Provisions, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt 
Beverages, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. White moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#4237) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis 
to CB Community Business for Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Simpson Estates, Cheyenne, Wyoming 
(located at the southwest corner of the intersection of College Drive and Cheyenne Street).  Ginger 
Brown, Coffey Engineering and Surveying, speaking on behalf of the developer, advised the zone 
change request is for a new express carwash business.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, 
Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  
  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present  with the exception of Mr . Johnson 
voting “no”. (#4238) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2. 1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR Medium-Density Residential, to 
MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis for Lots 1-5, Block 19, North Cheyenne, 2nd Filing, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Yellowstone Road and 
Prairie Hills Drive).  Margaret Thompson spoke in opposition to the zone change; questioned what 
is allowed within a MUB zone, and suggested her proposal for use of the property, which she had 
previously submitted to the City (on file with office of City Clerk), be considered which would 
involve a “tiny” house concept as a low income /affordable housing option .  Susana Montana,  
Planning and Development D epartment, explained a MUB zone allows for both residential and 
commercial development and there is no percentage ratio requirement between the two uses , and 
that the land owner plans to demolish  an existing apartment complex.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr . Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Cook and Mr.  Johnson voting 
“no”. (#4239) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 8.40.070, Food Stands or Pushcarts-
Mobile Food Trucks-Mobile Food Units-Temporary Parade Vendors-Business License Required-
Application, of Chapter 8.40, Food and Food Service Establishments, of Title 8, Health and Safety, 
of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, by creating a new Section 8.40.070(D) exempting 
lemonade stands operated by minors under the age of eighteen (18) years from the provisions of 
this section.  Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. White 
moved to amend by substitute that reflects amendments approved at the July 2, 2018 Finance 
Committee meeting, seconded by Mr.  Luna.  It was explained the substitute ordinance involves 
moving the exemption wording from Section 8.40.070(D) to Section 8.40.010 (D), Purpose, and 
changes the wording to read as follows “Minors under the age of eighteen (18) years operating a 
beverage stand selling lemonade, iced tea or similar beverages on property owned, leased or rented 
by their parents or legal guardians are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.”  Clarification 
was made t hat the current City code involving this type of youth activity is not being enforced , 
and comment was expressed that future amendments m ay be needed to Chapter 8.40 relative to 
potential state legislation  changes.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Creating Section 15.08.031, Building Permit Fees – 
Exceptions for Incentivization Program, of Chapter 15.08, International Building Code, of Title 
15, Buildings and Construction, of the Code o f the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. Vicki Dugger, 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority, spoke in support of the program and commented 
on high return of investments.  Joe Patterson, Guardian Development  Company, commented on 
concerns with costs of development for those within as well as outside of the program development 
area and in opposition to permit fee waivers, citing the need for more City building department 
staff and revising the UDC (Unified Development Code) to reduce parking and landscaping 
  
requirements to aid developers.  Robert Briggs, Director of Planning and Development, provided 
information on the proposed Incentivization Program involving waiver of building fees for 
development within the program area ; return on investment s; estimated budgeted revenues from 
building permit fees and current downtown projects, and confirmed the resolution ha s a program 
sunset clause of June 30, 2019.  Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
Johnson.  Discussion included possible limitation of the incentivization program to commercial 
private projects; sunset clause; program being a pilot program to spur development and 
redevelopment in the downtown area; waiver amount being limited to $100,000.00, and a request 
for additional permit revenue information being provided by Mr. Briggs at the next Finance 
Committee meeting.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing present with 
the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”. 
 
RESOLUTION – Supporting the expedient redevelopment of the building located at 1602 
Capitol Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, commonly referred to as the historic Hynds Building, and 
the lot adjacent to and west of the Hynds Building known as The Hole. Vicky Dugger, Cheyenne 
Downtown Development Authority, spoke in support of the resolution and advised this is the first 
time DDA has participated in a project of this type.  She noted the intent of redevelopment 
assistance involves investment in the downtown and resulting higher property valuation, and 
advised all qualified projects submitted will be carefully vetted and considered and that she has 
received a letter of support for the project from Cheyenne LEADS .  Upon inquiry, Ms. Dugg er 
explained a Request for Qualifications/Request for Proposals was still b eing developed and 
provided information on the process to involve the City and other stakeholders for input and 
comment; phases envisioned for the project; purpose and membership composition of a Special 
Technical Review Committee that will be formed; comm unity vetting process, and role of the 
realtor involved in marketing the sale of the building relative to no realtor fee being paid through 
the process.  Upon further inquiry, Ms. Dugger confirmed the City’s expenditure of $750,000.00 
will not go toward reducing the property’s sales price.  Chuck West confirmed the City’s funding 
will not be expended until certain conditions are met.  Brian Tyrrell questioned the anticipated 
time frame for project development, noting limitations affiliated with the Hynds building and cost 
to renovate.  John Volk questioned the market price being asked for sale of the building so those 
submitting proposals know the cost to potentially acquire the property.  Mr. White moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Mr. White moved to  amend by substitute dated July 2, 2018 which 
provides for clerical clarifications by renumbering items #2 to #3 under the Now, Therefore, Be It 
Resolved clause and adding a new item #2 to read “Provide the Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand 
Dollars ($750,000.00) for the Project only upon Governing Body review and approval of  the 
proposed development plan”, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Ms. Dugger stated DDA supports the 
amendment.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
Discussion included the following topics:  Community unawareness of the project; recent project 
article in the local newspaper; looking at all options and avenues for use of the building; 
relationship of the building and The Hole; background on creation of the redevelopment plan; lack 
of parking issues involving former property redevelopment efforts and past City funding 
commitment in the same financial amount in which the funding option had expired; public/private 
partnering; supporting DDA’s new economic development direction; improving property tax 
values; City’s low risk-reward ratio involving the project, and the current listing price being asked 
for the Hynds building.  Mr. West advised, upon inquiry , that the listed price for the Hynds 
  
property is $2.2 million and the LEADS (The Hole parcel) property was $400,000.00, and 
provided information on DDA’s ability to negotiate  a sales price .  Main motion as amended 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#5942) 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application for federal funding through 
the Transportation Alternatives Program administered by the Wyoming Department of 
Transportation for the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of the City of Cheyenne and Frontier Days 
Multi-Use Path Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5940) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for North 
Gate Village, a replat of Lots 1 -5, Block 19, North Cheyenne, 2nd Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Yellowston e Road and 
Prairie Hills Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5941) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting “The Development Plan for the Hynds/Hole (H2) Pro ject” 
presented by the Downtown Development Authority of the City of Cheyenne – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Roybal and Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Granite Springs Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Tract 3, Prosser Tracts, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located northeast of and adjacent to the intersection of Avenue C and Jefferson Road) 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Willow Heights, a replat of Lot 14, Block 5 and a portion of adjacent 
rights-of-way, Homestead Addition, First Filing Replat, and a plat of a portion of NE½, NE¼, 
Section 4, T13N, R66W, of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between 
Homestead Avenue and the Greenway, west of North College Drive) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Greenway Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District No. 1 for the purposes of constructing and maintaining a Greenway segment to be 
known as the Avenues Connector (WYDOT Transportation Alternatives Program grant).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6864) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Di vision, and 
Laramie County, Wyoming, to provide public transportation services to Laramie County 
Community College and for an area of Laramie County immediately adjacent to the City.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City $81,375.00). (#6865) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie County to provide 
Human Service agencies with the final installment of 2011 -2014 1% Sales Tax overage money .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $183,500.00). (#6866) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness, Alcohol Receiving Center, to 
provide alcohol and drug detoxification services to individuals .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (amount not to exceed $114,955.00). (#6867) 
  
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor to provide a safe and secure 
environment to families who have been affected by abuse.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(amount not to exceed $17,500.00). (#6868) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of C heyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide 
supportive senior services . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried  (amount not to exceed 
$50,00.00). (#6869) 
 
 Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Paycom, Inc., to outsource employee payroll 
and provide software for core Human Resource functionality . Ron Downey, City Treasurer, 
provided information on the proposed contract which would outsource approximately 85 -90% of 
the City’s payroll process; staff “punch in/punch out” working time software tracking an d data 
collection procedures; benefits of contract services and elements of the software program, which 
will reduce the City’s liability and eliminate one staff position, helping with the cost of outsourcing 
services.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Case.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Downey 
explained there will be  an initial set-up fee, then monthly fee s based on the amount of City 
employees.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#6870) 
 
[CA] Contract for Services  between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and 
Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for crisis center services at the 
Juvenile Service Center (revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract for Services between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and the 
Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for the Weekender Community 
Service program (revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division, and 
Veolia Inc., Henderson, Colorado, for hazardous waste disposal services at the Cheyenne 
Household Hazardous Waste Facilit y (Solid Waste Management fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division, and 
Onsite Electronics Recycling, LLC, Fort Collins, Colorado, for electronic recycling services at the 
Felix Pino Transfer Station Waste Facility (Solid Waste Management fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Land Exchange Agreement for the proposed trade of a portion of real property owned by 
the City of Cheyenne at 2303 Westland Road (estimated appraised value of $15,228.75), for a 
portion of real property owned by Roger E. Gill and Alec Yurgilevich at 2305 Westland Road 
(estimated appraised value of $16,563.94), Cheyenne, Wyoming (Community Development Block 
Grant fund – Cheyenne Capitol Basin Flood Control Project) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and 
the University of Wyoming Police Department for law enforcement extraterritorial a ssistance – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Following a brief recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 8:13 p.m. 
 
 Consideration of Bid #E-25-18 for furnishing new refuse vehicles for the City of Cheyenne, 
Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management fund) .  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works, provided 
information on vendors and equipm ent being recommended by staff, noting the recommended 
vendors (2) met minimum bid specifications at the lowest cost, and explained bidding procedures 
that had been followed, including a mandatory pre -bid meeting, follow-up meetings, adjustment 
to specifications, and the exemption request process.  Jeff Ketelsen, Elliot Equipment, advised he 
was present to answer any questions.  Mr. White moved to accept the bid from Peterbilt of 
Wyoming, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $2,811,674.00, and the bid from Floyd’s Truck 
Center, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exc eed $338,160.00, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Comment 
was made concerning the bid submitted by Elliott Equipment and potential consideration of tha t 
bid which could result in estimated saving s of $379,000.00 to the City.  In response, Bryan Bell, 
Director of Fleet Maintenance, provided information on bid specifications for certain types of 
refuse truck(s) and packer equipment involving bids by Elliott Equipment; staff’s mechanical and 
maintenance knowledge of past equipment; vendor bid specification exceptions that were not 
requested by Elliott Equipment, and staff development of bid specifications.  Dennis Bell, 
Sanitation Mechanic Foreman, provided information on past equipment involving Labrie 
equipment; advised the bid submitted by Elliott Equipment was the first City staff learned about 
the Shu -Pak equipment  (proposed by Elliott ), and that , following review of bids,  staff’s 
recommendation was to a ccept bids that met specifications.   Discussion included the different 
types of equipment involved in the bid; content of bid specifications; vendor exception requests; 
differences in bids submitted , and mandatory pre-proposal meeting. During discussion and upon 
inquiry, Mr. Ketelsen confirmed his attendance at the pre -bid meeting and commented on bid 
amendments.  Upon inquiry regarding whether there was a cost affiliated with not being able to 
provide Sanitation services if the purchase of equipment was not approved, Ms. Nemecek stated it 
was difficult to ascertain a dollar amount as staff wouldn’t know how long the current equipment 
will last, noting the equipment involved in the bid was due for replacement.   Mr. Case moved to 
amend by accepting the bid from Elliott Equipment for the dual arm side loading refuse trucks in 
the amount of $249,856.00.  Motion died due to lack of a second to the motion.  Discussion 
followed on rejecting all bids; integrity of the RFP process ; bidding proced ures, and revamped 
bidding process recently implemented by the City Purchasing office, and Fleet Maintenance staff 
knowledge and experience.   Motion to accept the bids submitted by Peterbilt of Wyoming, 
Cheyenne, and Floyd’s Truck Center, Cheyenne, carried .  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Case and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-30-18 for furnishing one new 2019 77-passenger bus for the City 
of Cheyenne, Latchkey Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Lewis Bus Group, North Salt Lake City, Utah, in an amount not to exceed 
$89,500.00). 
 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-15-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works 
Department, and Containment Systems, LLC, Birmingham, Alabama, for the City of Cheyenne 
Landfill Permanent Litter Fence Project (Solid Waste Management f und).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $265,000.00). (#6871) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-12-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering 
Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, for the 2018 City Chip Seal #2 P roject (2015-
2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-13-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering 
Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, for the 2018 Pavement Rehabilitation; 20th Street 
and Mountain Road Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # S-1-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, for the Mylar Park 
Restroom Prep Work Project (Com munity Development Block Grant) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Transfer of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Stults 
Management LLC d/b/a The Office Bar & Eatery, 1600 E. Pershing Boulevard, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming (License currently held by Robert Moberly d/b/a Bob’s Place, 1600 E. Per shing 
Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.   
 
Appointment of Patrick Brody to the Community Action of Laramie County Board.   Mr. 
Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (Mayoral appointee). 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, July 23, 2018 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a restaurant liquor 
license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Central Cafe, LLC d/b/a Central Cafe, 
3920 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, WY. 
 
 Under other business,  Bob Norris  expressed appreciation to members of the governing 
body for their service to the community; Mr. Johnson thanked the Economic Development Joint 
Powers Board and Laramie County Community College for their recent monetary donations to the 
Depot Plaza splash pad project, and Mayor Orr recognized Robert Briggs, out going Director of 
Planning and Development, for his service to the City. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:50 p.m. 
   
        Submitted by, 
  
 
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC  
        City Clerk 
  
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 20, 2018 