MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-07-23 | CLIP_ID: 665 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 665

  
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 23, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  COUNCIL PRESIDENT – Dr. Mark Rinne ; 
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook  (arriving at 6:03) , Richard Johnson, Pete 
Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Absent: Mayor Marian J. Orr.  
In the absence of Mayor Orr, Council President Rinne chaired the meeting.  [City Clerk’s note:  
As chair and with the exception of the vote taken on the main motion for Agenda Items #8 and 9, 
ordinances on third and final reading, President Rinne exercised his option, as entitled by state 
statute, to not cast a vote on agenda items].    Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia 
Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded by 
Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of  the Governing Body on July 9 , 2018 .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Cowboy 
Dodge, Inc.) and vacated Council Chambers.   Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs 
as presented, seconded by  Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal 
returned to Council Chambers. 
 
President Rinne opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant 
liquor license application filed w ith the City Clerk’s office for Central Cafe, LLC d/b/a Central 
Cafe, 3920 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, WY.  Mike Kubasti and Bob Jensen spoke in favor of the 
application and commented on how the business is a great addition to the neighborhood. [Mr. Cook 
joined the meeting in progress] Katy Rinne, Central Cafe, explained the business would like to 
offer a small selection of beer and wine only to their customers.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Rinne stated 
they intend to remain a family friendly e nvironment and will follow city and state liquor license 
dispensing and employee TIPS training requirements.  There being no further comments or input 
and purpose of the hearing having been me t, President Rinne closed the hearing and referred the 
application to Finance Committee. 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 8.40.010, Purpose – Authority – 
General Provisions, of Chapter 8.40, Food and Food Service Establishments, of Title 8, Health and 
Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, by creating a new Subsection 8.40.010(d) 
exempting beverage stands selling lemonade, iced tea or similar beverages, operated by minors 
under the age of eighteen (18) years, from the provisions of  this chapter.  Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  
Main carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4240) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Creating Section 15.08.031, Building Permit Fees – 
Exceptions, of Chapter 5.08, International Building Code, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, 
of the Code o f the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.   Vicki Dugg er, Downtown Development 
Authority, spoke in favor of the ordinance for redevelopment purposes, noting it should result in 
increased property valuation s and property tax revenue .  Dick Mason  inquired whether the 
ordinance would implement a fee waiver  and if there was a conflict with City Code Section 
2.36.010 (B) that indicates  Building Safety Department staff  must ensure the collection of plan 
review, building permit, inspection and related fees.  It was clarified the ordinance would provide 
a waiver of building permit fees pursuant to provisi ons of the ordinance .  Upon inquiry, Sylvia 
Hackl, City Attorney, stated as a general rule in the interpretation of ordinances, the more specific 
ordinance will govern.  It was advised the ordinance contains a “sunset” clause of June 30, 2019 
and the fee w aiver pertains only to building permit fees, not plan review and other fees.  Chuck 
West spoke in favor of the ordinance and stated this is a pilot program with a monetary limit  and 
it will help assist tenants who are responsible for improvements.  Mr. White moved to approve on 
third and final  reading, seconded by Mr.  Luna.  Discussion included support for infill 
redevelopments; reviewing regulatory hurdles that may also assist development ; fees based on 
valuation of projects, and City staff responsible for  making final decisions regarding approval of 
a fee waiver.  During discussion and upon inquiry, Alessandra McCoy Fakelman, Assistant City 
Attorney, provided information on how building permit fees are assessed and the “cap” on the 
amount of fee waiver per project as outlined in the ordinance.  She noted the City’s current Chief 
Building Official had approved the ordinance, and that an application process would be utilized 
with applications approved by the Interim Planning and Development Director.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Cook voting 
“no”. (#4241) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Repealing Section 9.12.080, Electric Fences Prohibited, 
of Chapter 9.12, Offenses Against Property, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code o f 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Adopting “The Development Plan for the Hynds/Hole (H2) Project” 
presented by the Downtown Development Authority of the City of Cheyenne .  Vicki Dugg er, 
Downtown Development Authority, explained the resolution is a partner to a previous resolution 
(Resolution #5942) recently passed by the governing body and commented in support of the 
resolution.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by 
Mr. Case.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by adding the following language at the end of the “Be It 
Further Resolved” clause:  This Resolution does not trigger Section 2 of the “Now Be It Resolved” 
clause contained in Resolution No. 5942; that the up to $750,000.00 commitment of City funds 
  
indicated in Resolution No. 5942 is not triggered until a developer is selected, a completion bond 
is obtained, a development agreement i s approved by the DDA and the governing body, and that 
paragraph #3, Project Framework, Timing and Flow, of the DDA Development  Plan, attached as 
Exhibit A, is amended by adding Councilman Pete Laybourn as a member of the Technical Review 
Committee, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#5943) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Granite Springs Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Tract 3, Prosser Tracts, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located northeast of and adjacent to the intersection of Avenue C and Jefferson Road).  
Bill Fehringer, CEPI, agent for the applicant, explained the action is to clean up property line issues 
involving encroachment.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt with staff condition #1, seconded by Mr.  
Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#5944) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Acknowledging the receipt of the feasibility study for  the Cheyenne 
Municipal Courts, and authorizing the City Attorney to expediently pursue all actions required to 
complete the purchase of the real property located at 308 West 17th Street, in the City of Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
 Preliminary Plat for Willow Heights, a replat of Lot 14, Block 5 and a portion of adjacent 
rights-of-way, Homestead Addition, First Filing Replat, and a plat of a portion of NE½, NE¼, 
Section 4, T13N, R66W, of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between 
Homestead Avenue and the Greenway, west of North College Drive).  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt 
with staff conditions #1 through 8, seconded by Mr.  Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. 
 
 [CA] Contract for Services  between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and 
Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for crisis center services at the 
Juvenile Service Center (revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6878) 
 
[CA] Contract for Services between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and the 
Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for the Weekender Community 
Service program (revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6879) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division, and 
Veolia Inc., Henderson, Colorado, for hazardous waste disposal services at the Cheyenne 
Household Hazardous Waste Facilit y (Solid Waste Management fund).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $200,000.00). (#6880) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division, and 
Onsite Electronics Recycling, LLC, Fort Collins, Colorado, for electronic recycling services at the 
Felix Pino Transfer Station Waste Facility (Solid Waste Management fund).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $160,000.00). (#6881) 
 
  
[CA] Land Exchange Agreement for the proposed trade of a portion of real property owned by 
the City of Cheyenne at 2303 Westland Road (estimated appraised value of $15,228.75), for a 
portion of real property owned by Roger E. Gill and Alec Yurgilevich at 2305 Westland Road 
(estimated appraised value of $16,563.94), Cheyenne, Wyoming (Community Development Block 
Grant fund – Cheyenne Capitol Basin Flood Control Project) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6882)  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and 
the University of Wyoming Police Department for law enforcement extraterritorial a ssistance.  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6883) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie 
County for Juvenile Probation Services. (revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works 
Department, and Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects, Cheyenne, for analytical and design 
engineering for the construction of a new Municipal Court. (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-12-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering 
Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, for the 2018 City Chip Seal #2 P roject (2015-
2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $1,115,396.00). 
(#6884) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-13-18 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering 
Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, for the 2018 Pavement Rehabilitation; 20th Street 
and Mountain Road P roject (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(amount not to exceed $1,891,928.74). (#6885) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -1-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, for the Mylar Park 
Restroom Prep Work Project (Com munity Development Block Grant).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $45,363.23). (#6886) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-2-19 for furnishing two new 2019 transfer trailers for the City of 
Cheyenne Sanitation Division. (Solid Waste Management fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for The Ridge 
Restaurant LLC d/b/a The Ridge Restaurant, 1820 Ridge Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming.   Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried.   
 
 Under other business, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Case complimented an off-duty City employee 
who assisted with an issue at Sun Valley Park during the recent Neighborhood Night Out event.   
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:32 p.m. 
  
   
 
        Submitted by, 
  
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 2, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  