MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-08-13 | CLIP_ID: 667 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 667

  
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 13, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor 
and Jeff White.  Absent:  Richard Johnson and Pete Laybourn.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City 
Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Roybal moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded 
by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 23, 2018 .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Cowboy 
Dodge, Inc.) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Case moved to approve payment of vouchers as 
presented, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Mr. Case moved to divide the question to allow for separate 
action on the voucher payable to the Wyoming Association of Municipalities in the amount of 
$46,155.88 for Fiscal Year 2019 WAM membership dues as a result of recent comments published 
by the media regarding the merits of the City of Cheyenne’s membership status, seconded by Mr. 
Cook.  Mayor Orr noted the motion was not debatable.  Motion to divide the question carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the gov erning body present in Council Chambers.  Due to recent 
information on the membership dues topic received by City Council members, Mr. Case moved to 
postpone action on the voucher payable to the Wyoming Association of Municipalities to August 
27, 2018, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Motion to approve payment of remaining vouchers, 
excluding the voucher payable to the Wyoming Association of Municipalities, car ried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following 
announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to Council Chambers. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Repealing Section 9.12.080, Electric Fences Prohibited, 
of Chapter 9.12, Offenses Against Property, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code o f 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal reported there was no recommendation from the 
Public Services Committee on the item  due to the lack of a second to the motion .  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Comment was made in support of 
approving the ordinance on second reading to allow for continuing discussion .  Motion carried.  
  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Cook and 
Mr. Shanor voting “no”. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Acknowledging the receipt of the feasibility study for  the Cheyenne 
Municipal Courts, and authorizing the City Attorney to expediently pursue all actions required to 
complete the purchase of the real property located at 308 West 17th Street, in the City of Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5945) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Mineral Royalty Capital 
Construction Account grant application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the 
Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne to purchase fifty dual band portable radios, twenty dual 
band mobile radios and the necessary accessori es for Cheyenne Fire and Rescue – referred to 
Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. WHITE) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie 
County for Juvenile Probation Services. (revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6891) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works 
Department, and Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects, Cheyenne, for analytical and de sign 
engineering for the construction of a new Municipal Court.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(amount not to exceed $697,500.00). (#6892) 
 
[CA] Rental Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events 
Department, and Cheyenne Capitals Youth Hockey Association for use of the Ice and Events 
Center (revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
Leslie Burch, for crime victim assistance ser vices (Wyoming Division of Victim Services grant)  
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
Brenda Johnson, for crime victim assistance services (Wyoming Division of Victim Ser vices 
grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
Jessica A. Fritz, for crime victim assistance services (Wyoming Division of Victim Services grant) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
Desiree M. Vigil, for crime victim assistance services (Wyoming Division of Victim Services 
grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, and the Wyoming Department of Transportation 
for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation grant to assist in providing local match for operating 
  
funds for the Cheyenne Transit Program for FY 2019  (WYDOT grant) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
  
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6743 between the City of Cheyenne and River 
Oaks Communications Corporation for drafting and negotiation of Charter Communications Cable 
Franchise renewal and CenturyLink Cable Television franchise a greements to extend the 
completion date – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-2-19 for furnishing two new 2019 transfer trailers for the City of 
Cheyenne Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Management fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accept ed bid from Ameri -Tech Equipment, Casper, WY, in an amount not to exceed 
$186,254.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -3-19 for furnishing two new 2018 -2019 John Deere Pro -Gators 
for the City of Cheyenne, Cemetery Division (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -4-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events Department, and Anthony Carr & Son Painting, for the Historic Union 
Pacific Depot Restoration: Win dows Project (grants and City funds)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Central Cafe, 
LLC d/b/a Central Cafe, 3920 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, WY.   Dr. Rinne declared a conflict of 
interest and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in Council Chambers.  
Following announcement of the vote, Dr. Rinne returned to Council Chambers.  
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, August 27, 2018 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether 
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for the S½ 
E½, Tract 1, Skyline Tracts, and that portion of Brimmer Road right -of-way adjacent to said S½ 
E½ of Tract 1, Laramie County, Wyoming, situated in SE¼ SE¼, Section 18, Township 14 North, 
Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., County of Laramie, State of Wyoming  (located northwes t of the 
intersection of Storey Boulevard and Powderhouse Road). 
 
 Under other business:   
 
 Earl Janack shared his observations and concerns regarding the 2017 change to City Code 
provisions involving street musicians and the requirement to obtain the con sent of the owner or 
manager of the premises in front of the place where a street musician proposes to perform.  Mr. 
Janack commented on difficulties and scenarios he has encountered as a street performer; difficulty 
in obtaining the required consent from owners or managers; available locations, and activities he 
believes should require a City noise permit.  Mayor Orr suggested review of the City Code could 
be conducted by the governing body with a separate meeting or response to Mr. Janack. 
  
 
 Joe Dougherty expressed his observation that items relating to the new Municipal Court 
building acted upon earlier in the meeting as Consent Agenda items was inappropriate as it did not 
afford public comment on the items involving $9 million in expenditure of public fu nds.  
Following comments and upon inquiry, Mr. Dougherty advised he had spoken with some members 
of the governing body about his concerns involving the new Municipal Court building site and 
historic value of the property but had not specifically requested a City Council member to request 
removal of the items from the Consent Agenda.   Also under other business, it was noted that 
requests to remove an eligible item from the Consent Agenda can always be made to City Council 
members, and that opportunity for public input on the Municipal Court building location topic had 
been made available for the past several months. 
 
 Introductions of Scott Roberts, new planner with the Planning and Development 
Department, and Joe Chenchar, new Assistant City Attorney with th e City Attorney Department, 
were made. 
 
 Mr. White expressed appreciation to staff for their work on behalf of the City during this 
year’s Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting  was 
officially adjourned at 6:30 p.m. 
   
 
        Submitted by, 
    
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 24, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  