MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-08-27 | CLIP_ID: 669 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 669

  
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 27, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, 
and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Roybal moved to approve Consent Agenda items, seconded 
by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 13, 2018.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by  Mr. Case.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input to determine whether 
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for the S½ 
E½, Tract 1, Skyline Tracts, and that portion of Brimmer R oad right-of-way adjacent to said S½ 
E½ of Tract 1, Laramie County, Wyoming, situated in SE¼ SE¼, Section 18, Township 14 North, 
Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., County of Laramie, State of Wyoming  (located northwest of the 
intersection of Storey Boulevard and Powderhouse Road).  Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development 
office, provided information on the property requested by the landowner to be annexed , and 
reviewed requirements of and compliance with annexation conditions contained in state statutes.   
Inquiry was made regarding property ownership.  There being no further comments or input and 
purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the public hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Repealing Section 9.12.080, Electric Fences Prohibited, 
of Chapter 9.12, Offenses Against Property, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code o f 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal advised 
there was no recommendation on the item from the Committee.  There being no motion to approve, 
Mayor Orr announced the item died. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 5.12.020, Definitions, and Section 
5.12.030, Licenses and permits – Types, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, 
  
of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
pertaining to special malt beverage (annual) permits – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. White) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the S½ 
E½, Tract 1, Skyline Tracts, and that portion of Brimmer Road right -of-way adjacent to said S½ 
E½ of Tract 1, Laramie County, Wyoming situated in SE¼ SE¼, Section 18, Township 14 North, 
Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., County of Laramie, State of Wyoming (located northwest of the 
intersection of Storey Boulevard and Powderhouse Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County LR Low-Density Residential 
to LR Low-Density Residential for the S½ E½, Tract 1, Skyline Tracts, Laramie County, Wyoming 
(located northwest of the intersection of Storey Boulevard and Powderhouse Road) – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 5.1.5.b to increase the size of Semi-attached 
Dwelling (“Duplex”) lots in the MR Medium-Density Residential zone district – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Mineral Royalty Capital 
Construction Account grant application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the 
Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne to purchase fifty dual band portable radios, twenty dual 
band mobile radios and the necessary accessori es for Cheyenne Fire and Rescue.  Mayor Orr 
advised it would be more advantageous to the City to enter into a lease/purchase agreement for the 
radios instead of applying for the grant, which is a very competitive process.  Chief Greg Hoggatt 
explained the provider of the radios is currently offering a discount in addition to the state (local 
government) discount the City receives, and by acquiring through a lease/purchase agreement the 
radios could be acquired sooner.   Discussion included Fire and Rescue equipment inventory and 
life-cycle of equipment in conjunction with the next budget preparation cycle; length of agreement 
for payments; technical assistance and warranty included with the agreement, and funding source 
for the purchase from 5th Penny sales tax overage.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White 
advised there was no recommendation on the item from the Committee.  There being no motion to 
approve, Mayor Orr announced the item died. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2019 budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113 – referred to Finance Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the recommendations of the Cheyenne Broadband Task Force, 
which will serve as a catalytic event to facilitate accelerated deployment of ubiquitous, affordable, 
  
high-speed internet access – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal, 
Mr. White) 
 
  Rental Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events 
Department, and Cheyenne Capitals Youth Hockey Association for use of the Ice and Events 
Center (revenue to City).  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6896) 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
Leslie Burch, for crime victim assistance services (Wyoming Division of Victim Services grant).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (base salary amount of $48, 878.52 plus eligible benefits). 
(#6897) 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
Brenda Johnson, fo r crime victim assistance services (Wyoming Division of Victim Services 
grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (base salary amount of $35,859.12 plus eligible 
benefits). (#6898) 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
Jessica A. Fritz, for crime victim assistance services (Wyoming Division of Victim Services grant).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (base salary amount of $31,200.00 plus eligible benefits).  
(#6899) 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
Desiree M. Vigil, for crime victim assistance services (Wyoming Division of Victim Services 
grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (base salary amount of $14,400.00 plus eligible 
benefits). (#6900) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, and the Wyoming Department of Transportation 
for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation grant to assist in providing local match for operating 
funds for the Cheyenne Transit Program for FY 2019  (WYDOT grant).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6901) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 for school resource officers for the 2018-
2019 school year and summer school 2019 – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
[CA] Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No. 6743 between the City of Cheyenne and River 
Oaks Communications Corporation for drafting and negotiation of Charter Communications Cable 
Franchise renewal and CenturyLink Cable Television franchise agreements to extend the 
completion date .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $15,000.00).  
(#6743) 
 
 Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract No. 6839 between the City of Cheyenne, 
Engineering De partment, and Reiman Corp, for the Civic Center Commons Park Project (1% 
  
Specific Purpose Sales Tax, WBC, SLIB, BOPU, FEMA funds).   Mayor Orr referred the item to 
Finance Committee.  Amy Allen, City Engine er, provided an explanation for the modification 
request, noting funding involves the transfer of force account funds and would not affect the overall 
budgeted amount.  Ms. Allen advised site problems were encountered by the contractor involving 
sheet piling and the modification will help get the walls to the desired depth, and reported FEMA 
had recently approved a six month extension for the project .  Mr. White reported the Finance 
Committee had reviewed the item under other items for the agenda at its August 20, 2018 meeting, 
therefore, provisions of City Code Title 2 had been met.  Mr. White moved  to approve, seconded 
by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6839) 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 4 to Contract No. 2985 between the  City of Cheyenne and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming-Laramie County, State of Wyoming Joint Powers Board, for use of premises 
within Frontier Park – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -3-19 for furnishing two new 2018 -2019 John Deere Pro-Gators 
for the City of Cheyenne, Cemetery Division (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Stolz Equipment, Casper, Wyoming, in an amount not to 
exceed $42,600.00) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -4-19 for a con tract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events Department, and Anthony Carr & Son Painting, for the Historic Union 
Pacific Depot Restoration: Windows Project (grants and City funds) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not exceed $127,159.00). (#6902) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -2-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events Department, and ISC Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Civic 
Center Hand Rails and Sightline Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax, Civic Center funds) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -5-19 for furnishing one new 2017 -2018 front end wheel loader 
with less than 10 hours (rebid) for the Street and Alley Di vision (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] City of Cheyenne Annual Employee Performance Evaluation Plan – Report to the 
Governing Body – referred to Committee of the Whole. 
 
[CA] Annual report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements  made to the 
building located at 4801 Central Avenue, as well as any improvements/repairs made to the golf 
course as required by Lease Agreement No. 2833 between the City of Cheyenne  and the Airport 
Golf Club, Inc. – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Labor Day holiday on Monday, September 3, 
2018, the regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the 
Municipal Building, Room 104, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance 
Committee will meet Tuesday, September 4, 2018 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee 
  
will meet Wednesday, September 5, 2018 at Noon.  Committee of the Whole will meet 
Wednesday, September 5, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers. 
 
 Under other business:   
Grady Lee Fitzgerald III expressed concerns with a change some hotels are making to 
remove one of two interior security door locks in guest rooms and requested City Council consider 
addressing the issue as a public safety concern .  Mayor Orr advised his concerns were noted and 
would be relayed to Visit Cheyenne. 
 
Mr. Laybourn commented on the recent successful Edge Fest celebration and congratulated 
all involved with planning of the event. 
 
Mr. Johnson invited the public to attend the September 8th re -dedication ceremony of the 
Clark Hose bell, which has been relocated to Fire Station 2, located near the intersection of 
Walterscheid and Fox Farm Rd. 
 
Mayor Orr noted the building at 815 Capitol Avenue has  been razed as part of the Fight 
the Blight program.   
  
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:29 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 7, 2018 
 
 
 
 
  