MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-09-10 | CLIP_ID: 671 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 671

  
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
September 10, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, 
and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Mayor Orr called for a m oment of silence in remembrance of the late  Chris Green, who 
was a Traffic Division employee at the time of his death. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Johnson, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Shanor and Mr. Roybal, Agenda Item #22 (a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. 
Luna moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 27, 2018.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Cowboy 
Dodge, Inc.) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs 
as presented, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to 
Council Chambers. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 5.12.020, Definitions, and Section 
5.12.030, Licenses and permits – Types, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, 
of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
pertaining to special malt beverage (annual) permits.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the S½ 
E½, Tract 1, Skyline Tracts, and that portion of Brimmer Road right -of-way adjacent to said S½ 
E½ of Tract 1, Laramie County, Wyoming situated in SE¼ SE¼, Section 18, Township 14 North, 
Range 66 West of the 6th P.M ., County of Laramie, State of Wyoming (located northwest of the 
  
intersection of Storey Boulevard and Powderhouse Road) .  Reporting for Public Services 
Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Case.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County LR Low-Density Residential 
to LR Low-Density Residential for the S½ E½, Tract 1, Skyline Tracts, Laramie County, Wyoming 
(located northwest of the intersection of Storey Boulevard and Powderhouse Road).  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 5.1.5.b to increase the size of Semi-attached 
Dwelling (“Duplex”) lots in the MR Medium-Density Residential zone district.  Mr. Roybal moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Vacating the 9th Street right-of-way lying west of Snyder 
Avenue between fractional Block 523, all of Blocks  524 and 573, and fractional Block 574, 
Original City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(SPONSOR – MR. ROYBAL) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2019 budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16-4-112 & 16-4-113.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded 
by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#5946) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Adopting the recommendations of the Cheyenne Broadband Task Force, 
which will serve as a catalytic event to facilitate accelerated deployment of ubiquitous, affordable, 
high-speed internet access.  Eric Trowbridge, Array  School of Technology and Design , and 
chairperson of the Broadband Task Force, explained the educational programs offered by Array 
which correlate with the importance of reliable internet infrastructure within the community.  Mr. 
Trowbridge reviewed the purpose and objectives of the Task Force.  He discussed internet 
investment, creating a competitive environm ent, low cost deployment for private companies and 
laying a technology foundation for the future, and outlined the six recommendations proposed by 
the Task Force.  Speaking in favor of the Task Force initiatives were:  Ben Rowland, former 
member of the Task Force; Abby Peterson; Austin Hein, Wyoming Liberty Group; Adam Marsh; 
Bria Hammock; Vicki Dugger, Downtown Development Authority; Craig Boal, Language I/O ; 
Evan Asher; Cortney Thompson, Task Force member, and Thomas Pettigew.  Topics discussed by 
the speakers included:  Task Force recommendations  and steps needed to carry out the 
recommendations involving governing body review and approval; inadequate local internet speeds 
and features hindering home business and employment op portunities; concerns with publicly vs. 
privately operated broadband; financial costs and future policies that may affect the City and 
taxpayers; incentivizing private company investments; supporting technology growth in the 
community; recommendations as a first step in pursuing further research and options; competitive 
  
elements involving private providers; frustration with current internet provider services; WiFi and 
internet services for the downtown business area; need for basic reliable internet; benefi t of 
infrastructure to support Internet of Things op portunities; transparency by the City  in providing 
information on franchise agreements , and clarification that the recommendations do not include 
the City providing internet services.  Also commenting on the resolution were Dale Steenbergen, 
Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, expressing the importance of the topic for local businesses and 
moving forward cautiously to examine costs, and including private sector businesses and others in 
future discussions relative to the recommendations.  In response to inquiry, Mr. Steenbergen stated   
fair and reasonable costs to private businesses  should be considered .  Eric Rasmussen, Charter 
Communications, Task Force member, stated Charter would like to “be at the table” to talk about 
moving forward with the recommendations and to help with solutions, and advised Charter offers 
a reduced rate services program for low income families.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Rasmussen explained 
his reasons generally for casting a “no” vote on the r ecommendations as a member of the Task 
Force, noting concerns with the need for more data and competing with government.  He referred 
to information he had previously provided to governing body members and commented on the 
“dig once” recommendation, indicating the need to review scenarios involving different situations, 
such as when new subdivisions are developed within the City.  Mr. Roybal reported there was no 
recommendation on the item from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Discussion included the following topics:  Reed Avenue Corridor 
serving as a possible pilot plan area; public/private partnerships; review and research of options 
and details related to the recommendations; better broadband capability wit hin the community , 
and benefits of being a progressive community.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by striking the word 
“adopting” in the resolution entitlement and replacing it with “acknowledging receipt of  the 
recommendations of the Cheyenne Broadband Task Fo rce …”; changing the 5 th Whereas clause 
to read “Whereas, in response to the Mayor’s request for recommendations, the CBTF has 
submitted a memorandum including six (6) recommendations which will enable the City to 
facilitate deployment of broadband infrast ructure, five (5) of those recommendations being as 
follows: …”; amending the Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved clause to read “Now, Therefore, Be It 
Resolved by the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, that the five (5) 
recommendations of the CBTF listed herein are acknowledged.”, and striking the remainder of the 
section; and adding a Be It Further Resolved clause that reads  “Before the City takes any steps , 
other than research and studying, on any of these five (5) concepts, individual evidence -based 
proposals will be brought forward to the governing body for approval .”, seconded by Mr. Case.   
Discussion on the amendment included adopting vs. acknowledging receipt of the CBTF 
recommendations; five, not six, of the  concepts proposed being acknowledged; explanation that 
the additional recommendation involved the City’s hiring of a full-time employee to facilitate 
broadband deployment and to develop the City’s long-term broadband strategy; pilot project area; 
details to be “fleshed out” through further research and discussions; draft wireless communications 
ordinance which is in progress; resolutions being non-binding and serving as statements of intent; 
steps envisioned in pursuing recommendations; obtaining outside assistance in correlation with the 
sixth recommendation, and staff reports constituting “evidence -based” research .  During 
discussion and upon inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, expressed her opinion involving use of 
the word “adopting” vs. “acknowledging receipt of” the resolution.  Motion to amend failed (due 
to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.  Voting 
“no” – Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal, Mr. White and Mayor Orr.  Brief discussion 
  
continued on the main motion.  Mr. Shanor mo ved to amend the 5 th Whereas clause to read 
“Whereas, in response to the Mayor’s request for recommendations, the CBTF has submitted a 
memorandum including six (6) recommendations which will enable the City to facilitate 
deployment of broadband infrastructure, five (5) of those recommendations being as follows: …”;  
amending the Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved clause to read “Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved by 
the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, that the five (5) recommendations of the 
CBTF listed herein are a dopted.” [and striking the remainder of the section ]; and adding a Be It 
Further Resolved clause that reads “Before the City takes any steps, other than research and 
studying, on any of these five (5) concepts, individual evidence -based proposals will be brought 
forward to the governing body for approval.”, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Discussion included 
historical practice of acknowledging receipt of reports; cost effectiveness of hiring a broadband 
staff position vs. a consultant; recent hi ring of a broadband expert by the Wyoming Business 
Council and information from the expert that had been received by governing body members; 
potential opportunity to hire a chief technology officer for the City in the future and funding of 
same, and future actions on the recommendations coming before the governing body for approval.  
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Mr. Shanor voting “no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Shanor voting “no”. (#5947) 
 
 Following a brief recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 8:15 p.m. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Miller 
Addition, 4th Filing, a replat of all of Block 2, Miller Addition, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located east of Townsend Place, North of Carlson Street) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. ROYBAL)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Stafford-Davis Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Tract 62, Allison Tracts, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located north of Prosser Road, east of Walterscheid Boulevard ) – referred to Public 
Services Committee.  (SPONSOR – MR. ROYBAL) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 
Nishigawa Annex Subdivision, a replat of all of Lots 3 and 4 and the West 44 feet of Lot 2, Block 
393, Original City, situated in the SE1/4 SW1/4 of Section 31, Township 14N, Range 66W, of the 
6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of W. 17 th Street 
and O’Neil Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. ROYBAL) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing a street name change from “Prairie Avenue” to “Back Way” 
for the portion of the street located between Dell Range Boulevard and the undeveloped section of 
Prairie Avenue, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to Publ ic Services 
Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. ROYBAL) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Acknowledging the receipt of the Preliminary Cost Models for a second 
level on the Cheyenne Municipal Court Building to be located at 308 West 17 th Street and 
supporting the dedication of fun ds to design and build a finished second level on the Ch eyenne 
Municipal Court Building – referred to Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. WHITE) 
  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheye nne Police 
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 for school resource officers for the 2018-
2019 school year and summer school 2019. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. (#6905) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and the Wyoming 
Department of Transportation for D.U.I. Mobile Command Task Force enforcement and 
educational activities (Highway Safety Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 4 to Contract No. 2985 between the City of Cheyenne and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming-Laramie County, State of Wyoming Joint Powers Board, for use of premises 
within Frontier Park.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#2985) 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 6709, Human Services Agreement, between the City of 
Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie County to extend the termination date for the Community 
School Pilot Program (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Renewal for Contract No. 6794 between the City of Cheyenne, Planning and 
Development Department, and American Contracting of Wyoming, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
for the Warren Rest House Restoration, Phase 2 Project, to extend the completion date – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -2-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events Department, and ISC Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for  the Civic 
Center Hand Rails and Sightline Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax, Civic Center funds).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6906) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -5-19 for furnishing one new 2017 -2018 front end wheel loader 
with less than 10 hours (rebid) for the Street and Alley Di vision (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase Motorola portable radios for the Cheyenne Fire and Rescue 
Department from Wireless Advanced Communications, Evan s, Colorado. (2015 -2018 1% Sales 
Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 City of Cheyenne Annual Employee Performance Evaluation Plan – Report to the 
Governing Body .  Stephanie Lowe, President, Cheyenne Public Employees Association, 
encouraged support for the plan and noted concerns with the City’s outdated compensation 
schedule and inflation; “fitting” employees into a perfect bell curve, suggesting the curve could be 
adjusted later if needed, and conducting honest and fair evaluations.  Reporting for Committee of 
the Whole, Dr. Rinne moved to approve the plan, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Discussion included 
a suggestion to change the timing of evaluations to instead be held at 90 days, six months and then 
annual evaluations due to manhours involved under the current proposed plan; concerns with 
utilizing a bell curve as a measurement process; who will ultimately be approving employee 
  
increases under the plan, and  putting a cap on wages, related with merit -based pay, at market 
midpoint and not the maximum due to budgetary concerns .  Darrin Hass, Human Resources 
Director, responded to inquiries and explained the role of department directors who have been 
meeting to develop the plan.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
[CA] Annual report to the City of Cheyenne regarding capital improvements made to the 
building located at 4801 Central Avenue, as well as any improvements/repairs made to the golf 
course as required by Lease Agreement No. 2833 between the City of Cheyenne  and the Airport 
Golf Club, Inc.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve the a ppointment of Jaci Wells to the Historic Preservation 
Board, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (Mayoral appointment). 
 
[CA] Report of Community Facility Fees for Fiscal Year 2017 -2018 – referred to Finance 
Committee 
  
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 24, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a restaurant liquor 
license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for The Golden Egg of Che yenne, Inc. d/b/a 
Epic Egg, 2300 Carey Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 24, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of retail 
liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc. d/b/a 
Cheyenne Frontier Days, 1230 West 8 th Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by 
Steamboat’s, LLC d/b/a Steamboat’s Wyoming Steak House, 115 E. 17th St.). 
 
 Under other business:   
 
 Jeff Dierksen  questioned whether the C ity ha s a policy , process or procedures that 
addresses petitions  that are submitted to the City .  Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, advised that 
petitions filed with the City Clerk are shared with the governing body, however, that does not 
necessarily mean the governing body will act on a petition.  She noted exceptions to this are 
pursuant to any petition processes outlined by City Code, Wyoming Statutes, the UDC or other 
regulations.  Mr. Dierksen referenced two petitions he had submitted involving traffic issues in his 
neighborhood, noting the second one had not been addressed.  Mayor Orr expressed she was aware 
of the petitions citing traffic concerns on Pinto Lane, advised of a traffic stu dy that had been 
conducted and acting on data that is received from the study, and indicated, at some point in the 
future, the issue could be revisited based on changing conditions.  It was noted re-zoning changes 
pursuant to state statute and the Neighbor hood Traffic Management Program involve formal 
petition processes. 
 
 Evan Asher expressed his frustration concerning Sanitation’s yard waste program and 
unavailability to be on an active list to receive services, and negative customer service experience 
  
he had encountered.  Mayor Orr advised money was approved for additional yard waste cans and 
route and that the bins were unable to be acquired during the current season and that, hopefully, it 
should be implemented next spring.  It was noted that past discu ssion on the topic during budget 
preparation included adding one additional route for the yard waste program but there were not 
enough subscribers at the time warranting the cost of an additional route. 
 
 Mr. Johnson noted the Request for Proposals for the  Depot Plaza Splash Pad Project had 
been issued and was available on the City’s website, and thanked those who attended the recent 
re-dedication of the Clark Hose fire bell held at Fire Station No. 2. 
  
 Mayor Orr called for a moment of silence in recognition of the September 11, 2001 national 
tragedy. 
 
 There being no  further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:36 p.m. 
   
 
        Submitted by, 
   
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 21, 2018 