MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-09-24 | CLIP_ID: 673 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 673

  
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
September 24, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, 
and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Luna, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Johnson and Mr. Cook, Agenda Item #21 (a)  was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon 
request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Luna and Mr. Cook, Agenda Item 
#16 was moved from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining Consent 
Agenda items, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 10, 2018.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried.   
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Cowboy 
Dodge, Inc.) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs 
as presented, seconded by  Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal 
returned to Council Chambers. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a restaurant liquor 
license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for The Golden Egg of Cheyenne, Inc. d/b/a 
Epic Egg, 2300 Carey Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming.   Michael Moriarty, applicant, advised upon 
inquiry that current restaurant operational hours will remain the same.  He explained the restaurant 
is rebranding, which will involve new menu items and they wish to include the offering of certain 
types of alcoholic beverages.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the public 
hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the public hearing and referred the application to 
Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a transfer of retail 
liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc. d/b/a 
Cheyenne Frontier Days, 1230 West 8 th Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by 
  
Steamboat’s, LLC d/b/a Steamboat’s Wyoming Steak House, 115 E. 17th St.).  Tom Hirsig, CEO 
Cheyenne Frontier Days, explained timing of the application (requesting transfer of ownership and 
location of Steamboat’s license) coincides with CFD’s new headquarters and conference center 
building currently under construction.  Mr. Hirsig reviewed potential events and activities that are 
planned to be held at the new building and proposed areas for sales and consumption , and 
explained the benefits of CFD being able to apply for temporary alcohol catering permits allowed 
under a retail license .  During discussion and in response to inquiries, Mr. Hirsig  provided 
information on the intent of CFD to not compete with other liquor licensees; CFD investing money 
to bring more visitors to Cheyenne ; providing a small package liquor store environment to meet 
City Code operational requirements; dedication of staff to manage activities involving the liquor 
license; space within the new building dedicated to CFD’s volunteer Committees ; anticipated 
annual number of rental events envisioned at the building; that CFD h as no plans to implement a 
full-service restaurant operation; that the Buckle Club will remain where it is; that they do not plan 
to apply for catering permits to sell alcoholic spirits “on the track”, and paid TIPS trained staff, 
not volunteers, conducting sales under the license with the possible exception of utilizing CFD 
volunteers (TIPS trained) for certain CFD sponsored events.  Upon inquiry regarding a recent 
violation report issued by the Police Chief involving malt beverage sales violations during this 
year’s annual CFD event, Mr. Hirsig advised issues will be addressed and they will be working 
closely with Police Chief Brian Kozak.  Upon query, Carol Intlekofer, City Clerk, explained City 
Code requirements regarding the definition of “operational”,  stating the requirement is that a 
licensee must offer for sale on an ongoing weekly basis to the general public alcoholic liquor and 
malt beverages and that “weekly” means at least one eight -hour day within a week beginning on 
Sunday.  U pon further inquiry, Ms. Intlekofer explained recent temporary malt beverage and 
alcohol catering permits that had been issued in conjunction with performances at the Civic Center.  
Questions and comments from the governing body included the following topics:  Past practice of 
the governing body to consider the best economic use of a liquor license when reviewing retail 
liquor license applications; impact, if any, involving local malt beverage distributors; competition 
with other current retail liquor licensees; CFD sponsors hip relationship; Police Chief’s violation 
report, and proposed retail package liquor store .  There being no further comments or input and 
purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the public hearing and referred 
the application to Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 5.12.020, Definitions, and Section 
5.12.030, Licenses and permits – Types, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, 
of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
pertaining to special malt beverage (annual) permits.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. Luna moved to amend, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson, by inserting the following sentence at the e nd of Section 5.12.030 (A) 
(14) (a): “As used in this section, auditorium setting means an area designated for the primary 
purpose of seating an audience to view or partake in an event or entertainment.”.  Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “yes” all members  of the governing body.  Upon inquiry, Carol Intlekofer, City 
Clerk, provided information on proposed plans for an application for this type of permit to be 
submitted by the City of Cheyenne for use at the Civic Center, advising the City is only allowed 
to hold one permit in its applicant name, and the permit would be limited to one location (i.e. Civic 
Center) which will prohibit the City from applying for any future temporary malt beverage permits 
  
if the application is approved, through the usual applicat ion, public hearing and review process, 
by the governing body.   Upon inquiry, Teresa Moore, Director of Community Recreation and 
Events, advised a future conversation is probable involving eligible licensees to apply for 
temporary catering permits to provide wine or other non-malt based products at the Civic Center.    
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4242) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the S½ 
E½, Tract 1, Skyline T racts, and that portion of Brimmer Road right -of-way adjacent to said S½ 
E½ of Tract 1, Laramie County, Wyoming situated in SE¼ SE¼, Section 18, Township 14 North, 
Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., County of Laramie, State of Wyoming (located northwest of the  
intersection of Storey Boulevard and Powderhouse Road) .  Seth Lloyd, Planning and 
Development, explained the difference between when an annexation ordinance becomes effective 
(upon publication) vs. when annexed boundaries are recognized by entities providing services to 
the area based upon the filing of the annexation map, and advised the annexation map for this 
parcel has been submitted.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. (#4243) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County LR Low-Density Residential 
to LR Low-Density Residential for the S½ E½, Tract 1, Skyline Tracts, Laramie County, Wyoming 
(located northwest of the intersection of Storey Boulevard and Powderhouse Road).  Dr. Rinne 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Chris Lovas, 
AVI Engineering, agent for the applicant, stated the reason for the zone change request is for the 
property owner to be able to connect to City water and sewer services.  It was confirmed no change 
to current use of the property was pla nned.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4244) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 5.1.5.b to increase the size of Semi-attached 
Dwelling (“Duplex”) lots in the MR Medium-Density Residential zone district.  Dr. Rinne moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4245) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Vacating the 9 th Street right -of-way lying west of 
Snyder Avenue between fractional Block 523, all of Blocks 524 and 573, and fractional Block 
574, Original City of C heyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Miller 
Addition, 4th Filing, a replat of all of Block 2, Miller Addition, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located east of Townsend Place, North of Carlson Street).  M otion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#5948) 
  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Stafford-Davis Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Tract 62, Allison Tracts, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located north of Prosser Road, east of Walterscheid Boulevard).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#5949) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 
Nishigawa Annex Subdivision, a replat of all of Lots 3 and 4 and the West 44 feet of Lot 2, Block 
393, Original City, situated in the SE1/4 SW1/4 of Section 31, Township 14N, Range 66W, of the 
6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of W. 17 th Street 
and O’Neil Avenue).  Casey Palma, Steil Surveying Services, agent for the applicant, explained 
an updated revised map had been submitted; that site plans have been submitted with waiver 
requests, which were under review and would be determined later, and spoke in favor of moving 
forward with the revised map.  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt with revised plat map dated September 
12, 2018, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to adopt with revised plat map carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. (#5950) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing a street name change from “Prairie Avenue” to “Back Way” 
for the portion of the street located between Dell Range Boulevard and the undeveloped section of 
Prairie Avenue, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.   Jordan Evans, GIS Cooperative, 
provided information on the purpose of the street name change, which is a request from the 
Combined Communications (dispatch) Center, to alleviate conflict with other street areas named 
Prairie Avenue off Dell Range  and Powderhouse Road relative to emergency responders.  Dr. 
Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Case.  Concern was expressed regarding the proposed 
name of “Back Way”, and current east /west portions of Prairie Avenue.  Dr. Rinne moved to 
amend by naming the section to the east of Powerhouse Road as East Prairie Avenue, and the area 
west of Powerhouse Road as West Prairie Avenue, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Chief Greg Hoggatt, 
Fire and Rescue Department, expressed concern that geographically the City  has an east/west 
“point” based on Central Avenue and changing the dividing point to Powderhouse for just this 
street section may affect block numbers and emergency response.  Mr. Evans stated the amendment 
would affect some resident addresses and suggested postponement of the item could be considered 
to review suggestions  for a street name other than “Back Way”.  Amy Allen, City Engineer, 
provided information on the Prairie Avenue intersections involved, and expressed she was open to 
other street name suggestions other than “Back Way”.  Discussion included naming of street s 
pursuant to City Code provisions.  Upon inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, advised she would 
like time to review applicable City Code provisions.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” – all 
members of the governing body.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Evans revie wed information elements the 
Combined Communications Center receives relative to calls for service.  Dr. Rinne moved to 
postpone to October 8, 2018, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Acknowledging the receipt of the Preliminary Cost Models for a second 
level on the Cheyenne Municipal Court Building to be located at 308 West 17 th Street and 
supporting the dedication of funds to design and build a finished second level on the Ch eyenne 
Municipal Court Building .  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, stated a commitment by 
  
the governing body is necessary to move forward with the second story to facilitate appropriate 
engineering, structural and design decisions , and noted adoption of the resolution involves 
acknowledging receipt of the preliminary cost models for a second level and states the g overning 
body’s commitment to dedicate necessary funds to design and finish the second level.  She advised, 
pursuant to inquiry at the Finance Committee meeting, the City Treasurer had submitted a memo 
to governing body members on funding availability for the project relative to use of 6 th penny 
overage sales tax funds, and that a question was posed relative to legal interpretation of the phrase 
“acknowledging receipt”.  Ron Downey, City Treasurer, advised 6 th penny sales tax overage 
cannot be spent on general government (ie: salaries or general maintenance), or anything that was 
not approved on the ballot by voters.  In response to inquiry, Mayor Orr provided information on 
possible sale of a portion of City -owned Swan  Ranch (which may assist with project costs) 
pursuant to an interest expressed by Dyno Nobel to expand their footprint, noting the City would 
be required to surplus the property and offer it through the bidding process, and that the parcel has 
been surveyed and appraised and there were no short term plans for use of the property by the City.  
Noel Griffith, Noel Griffith Jr. and Associates Architects, stated a study for space utilization within 
the new Municipal Court building still needs to be conducted  and provided information on site 
parking; aesthetic elements involving the building’s façade; timing of UDC (Unified Development 
Code) and Development review , and removal of the building from the Historic Preservation 
Board’s contributing structures list.  Mr. Luna advised there was no recommendation on the item 
from Finance Committee.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Comment followed 
on financial concerns involving a commitment to finish the second level.  Dr. Rinne moved to 
amend by removing the word “finished” from the second section of the Resolution’s Now 
Therefore Be It Resolved clause, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Discussion topics included:  Unknown 
use of the second level; designing the second level as a “shell” space only at this time; potential 
future finishing costs; revenue streams identified for the project, and $1.1 million dollar difference 
between shell-out and a finished product.  During discussion, Mr. Griffith advised finishing the 
second level at a later date may be more expensive but could be done at any time and provided 
information on mechanical and electrical needs, including elevator and stairways, relating to 
designing a “shell” (empty) space, and elements considered to be included, or not included, in an 
unfinished “shell”.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek stated use of the second floor could be determined 
later and that the main issue is whether to contract services to design a “shell” or “finish” space, 
noting the Con struction Manager At Risk (CMAR) will be recommended for selection on 
September 28th with a contract then being presented.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – 
Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Shanor.  Voting 
“no” – Mr. Johnson, Mr. White and Mayor Orr.  [City Clerk note:  As a clerical correc tion in 
conjunction with the approved amendment, the word “finished” w ill also be removed from the 
Resolution entitlement.]  Further discussion included cost concerns and other municipal capital 
facilities and maintenance needs and responsibilities; “shell” design based upon budget proposals 
received, and potential future sale of the Swan Ranch parcel.  Main motion as amended carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#5951)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Terminating the agreement between the City of  Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for Animal Contr ol and Animal Shelter Services – 
referred to Committee of the Whole. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and the Wyoming 
Department of Transportation for D.U.I. Mobile Command Task Force enforcement and 
educational activities (Highway Safety Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6909) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, and the City of Casper, Casper Police Department, for law enforcement 
extraterritorial assistance – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Industrial and Economic Development Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development  (LEADS) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 6709, Human Services Agreement, between the City of 
Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie County to extend the termination date for the Community 
School Pilot Program (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6709) 
 
[CA] Contract Renewal for Contract No. 6794 between the City of Cheyenne, Planning and 
Development Department, and American Contracting of Wyoming, LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
for the Warren Rest House Restoration, Phase 2 Project, to extend the comple tion date.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $37,687.00). (#6794) 
 
 Consideration to purchase Motorola portable radios for the Cheyenne Fire and Rescue 
Department from Wireless Advanced Communications, Evans, Colorado (2015 -2018 1% Sales 
Tax).  Chief Greg Hoggatt, Fire and Rescue Department, advised the purchase amount approved 
by the Finance Committee did not include financing interest as the radios will be leased.  Mr. Luna 
stated it was brought to his attention that the Finance Committee inadvertently recommended to 
approve in an amount not to exceed $446,889.52, however, that amount  did not include interest 
charges.  Mr. Luna moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $517,310.95 which includes the 
interest charges, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried .  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-4-19 for furnishing ice control product for the City of Cheyenne, 
Public Works Department (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Report of Community Facility Fees for Fiscal Year 2017 -2018.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal moved to approve the reappointment of Dr. Earl B. Kincheloe to the Cheyenne 
Housing Authority, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (Mayoral appointment). 
  
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held October 8, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether 
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for a portion 
  
of the west half, of the west half of Section 17, T14N, R66W, of the 6th Principal Meridian, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Powderhouse Road, north of Spirit Lane). 
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Jeff Dierksen  discussed how the governing body addresses pet itions (which are not 
otherwise addressed by law or City requirements), suggesting the governing body implement a 
procedure to openly discuss and act upon petitions that are received, and questioned whether the 
location of lead pipes in the City’s water sy stem has been identified.  Response comments were 
made by members of the governing body regarding the handling of citizen requests and complaints 
and responses to same by individual members of the governing body ; uniformity and standards 
concerns involving a formal policy, and concern with developing a threshold as it may pertain to 
one resident or numerous residents.   Mr. Laybourn, City Council liaison to the Board of Public 
Utilities (BOPU), advised he would pass on the inquiry concerning lead pipes to the BOPU. 
 
 Mr. Johnson expressed appreciation to the organizers, donors and volunteers involved in 
the Rooted in Cheyenne tree planting event  over the weekend , and also to the coordinators, 
organizers, volunteers and participants who assisted with or partic ipated in the community’s first 
marathon event on September 23. 
 
 Mr. Case expressed appreciation to the Fire and Rescue Department relative to involvement 
with Bob Quick’s Journey, a bicyclist riding across the country who was recently traveling through 
Cheyenne. 
 
 Mr. Luna commented on a concern he had received regarding unauthorized “residents” at 
the vacated Hitching Post property and requested follow-up on the issue. 
 
 There being no  further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:54 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  October 5, 2018 
 
 