MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-10-22 | CLIP_ID: 681 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 681

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
October 22, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott 
Roybal and Dicky Shanor.  Absent:  Dr. Mark Rinne and Jeff White.  Also present: Carol 
Intlekofer, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Cook and Mr. Johnson, Agenda Item # 10 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr.  
Luna moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 8, 2018.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried.   
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Cowboy 
Dodge, Inc.) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr.  Johnson moved to approve payment of vouchers 
as presented, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to 
Council Chambers. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 12.24, Art in Public Places, of Title 
12, Stre ets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
pertaining to the Art in Public Places Committee .  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Case  
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Votin g “yes” – 
all members of governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READI NG – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of the west half, of the west half of Section 17, T14N, R66W, of the 6th Principal Meridian, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Powderhouse Road, north of Spirit Lane) .  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Votin g “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
  
Development Code, changing th e zoning classification from County A -1 Agricultural and Rural 
Residential to MUR Mixed -Use Residential Emphasis for a portion of the west half, of the west 
half of Section 17, T14N, R66W, of the 6th Principal Meridian Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west 
of an d adjacent to Powderhouse Road, north of Spirit Lane ) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Designating Arts Cheyenne as the Local Arts Agency fo r the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Case moved to adopt, seconded by  Mr. Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Bill 
Lindstrom, Executive Director, Arts Cheyenne, reviewed the history and purpose of the association 
and described public arts services envisioned to be provided by Arts Cheyenne through the 
resolution and an affiliated Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).  Upon further inquiry, Mr. 
Lindstrom provided information on :  Proposed Arts Cheyenne services related to an ordinan ce 
currently before the governing body  (Agenda Item #7) , the resolution and MOU,  which would 
authorize Arts Cheyenne to serve as the City’s Art in Public Places Committee; the resolution and 
MOU; communication with City staff on community development proje cts; public/private 
partnering and engaging the community to define and enhance Cheyenne’s public arts 
environment.  Discussion included the following topics:  Developing guidelines as set forth in the 
MOU; past Art in Public Places projects; funding consideration for the next fiscal year budget, and 
public/private partnering.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. (#5954) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Providing for the review and approval of the South Cheyenne Water & 
Sewer District’s Federal SLIB Chapter 3 Mineral Royalty grant application before the Wyoming 
State Loan and Investment Board for the emergency repair of the existing sanitary sewer siphon  
crossing of Crow Creek Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5955) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Declaring Cheyenne a City of Kindness and Generosity .  Geri Maria 
Johnson commented in support of the resolution.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
Johnson.  Discussion included the following topics: Following the “golden rule”  philosophy; 
encouraging a kind and generous community; concern with legislating the topic  and setting 
community morality decisions through a resolution; Compassionate Cheyenne organization efforts 
and past discussions; resolution serving only as a stateme nt of opinion; remarks contained in a 
recent local newspaper article and offense to the remarks taken by some governing body members; 
expressions of both support and opposition to the resolution, and intimidating comments that had 
been made involving support for the resolution.  Motion failed (due to a tie vote).  Voting “yes” – 
Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Roybal.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Luna, Mr. 
Shanor and Mayor Orr. (#5956) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for South 
Park Estates, 10th Filing, a replat of Lots 1, 2, 5, and a portion of Lot 3, Block 1, South Park Estates, 
6th Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Partoyan Drive and 
Walterscheid Boulevard, north of I-80) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal) 
 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Hope Subdivision, 4 th Filing, a replat of Lot 2, Block 1, Hope Subdivision, 2 nd Filing, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of E. Nation Road and S. 
Avenue B-6) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Proclaiming ‘Cheyenne Anthem’ as the official song  for the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives Division, and State of 
Wyoming, Department of Family Services, for kinship advocacy services for displaced, at -risk 
youth.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6915) 
 
[CA] Minimum Revenue Guaranteed Payment agreement between the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, and the Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team, c/o Cheyenne LEADS .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $600,000.00). (#6916) 
 
[CA] Grant Award between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Wyoming Office of 
Homeland Security to purchase protective gear for the SWAT team.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6917) 
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and FCI Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, for 
the pre-construction and construction phase services for Cheyenne Municipal Courts Building (1% 
Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Joe Dougherty questioned the scope of services and the City’s 
financial commitment affiliated with the agreement .  In response, Vicki Nemecek, Director of 
Public Works, advised the purpose of the agreement is to hire FCI as the Construction Manager 
At Risk (CMAR) for the project with compensat ion in the amount of $21,485.00 for pre -
construction services and a stipulated maximum fee of $1,246,043.00 for construction phase  
services.  Brandon Munz, FCI Constructors, stated the contract at this time is only authorizing pre-
construction services involving budgeting front work to establish the GMP (Guaranteed Maximum 
Price).  Noel Griffith, Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects, architect for the project, advised 
FCI will be very involved in the project design and at about 50% completion of the design and 
working drawings, the governin g body will be presented with the GMP information .  Comment 
followed on finding funding related to the second floor plans for the building and process and 
topics to be discussed during the pre -construction services phase.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Munz 
provided information on the process to arrive at the GMP amount, which will result in a proposed 
amendment for governing body approval; stated typically, if there isn’t any major change in the 
scope of services, the final dol lar amount comes in under the estimated GMP, and value 
engineering will be one of the elements discussed during the pre -construction process.  Mr. Case 
reported there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Roybal moved 
to approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. Case moved to  amend by substitut e dated October 22, 
2018, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Ms. Nemecek noted the substitute includes the construction costs 
for the first ($6.4 million ) and second ($4,138,750.00) floors of the building, f or a total 
construction budget of  $10,538,750.00, and also includes Exhibit A (CMAR fee proposal ) and 
Exhibit B (CMAR fee structure).  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek clarified the number ing of pages 
contained in the agreement vs. the exhibit pages.  Comments followed in support of the agreement 
  
and previous work by FCI on past City projects, and timeliness in moving forward with the project.  
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main motion 
as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#6918) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract #6427 between the City of Cheyenne, Fire and 
Rescue Department, and Physio -Control, Inc., Redmond, Washington, for renewal maintenanc e 
services for factory-authorized inspection and repair services of LIFEPAK devices.   Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $51,949.80). (#6427) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract #6892 between the City of Cheyenne, Public 
Works Department, and Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for design 
engineering of a second level shell and core to the Cheyenne Municipal Court Project (1% Specific 
Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Contract #6854, Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for Animal Control and Animal Shelter Services – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-7-19 for furnishing two new 2018 -2019 rough mowers for the  
City of Cheyenne Golf Division.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid from Stotz 
Equipment, Evansville, Wyoming, in an amount not to exceed $109,500.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase 76 Self Contained Breathing Apparatuses (SCBA’s) along with 
accessory equipment from L.N. Curtis & Sons, Salt Lake City, Utah, for the Chey enne Fire and 
Rescue Department.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept bid in an amount not to exceed 
$620,665.00) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-6-19 for furnishing one new 2018-2019 motor grader for the Street 
and Alley Division (2015 – 2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Appointment of Alexis Arp, Maggie Black, Ashen Doty, Darby Downham,  Raegan 
Downham, Dylan Fertig, Julia Horst, Keiran Loughran, Marie Lucas, Emily Lucero, Lars 
Quinlivan, Kenitra Shanks, Dominick Singleton and Marty Zhang to the 2018 -2019 Mayor’s 
Youth Council.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion c arried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not 
vote (Mayoral appointments). 
 
 Report from the Cheyenne Animal Shelter Board pursuant to Resolution No. 5953.  Randy 
Reed, attorney for the Animal Shelter Board, provided information pertaining to directives 
contained within the resolution, noting discussions between himself and Sylvia Hackl, City 
Attorney, and referencing an affiliated memorandum that had been s ubmitted to governing body 
members relating to a proposed amendment to the City’s contract with the Animal Shelter, which 
had been referred to Finance Committee earlier in the meeting (Agenda Item #17 (c)).  Upon 
inquiry, Mr. Reed  stated his understanding that additional Animal Shelter costs pursuant to the 
directives would be in addition to the monies the City is paying the Shelter under the current 
  
agreement, and the cost of implementing the directives may be spread between t he governmental 
entities receiving animal shelter services.  Comments included concern with additional costs to the 
City pursuant to information contained in the aforementioned memorandum and probable further 
discussion on the topic at the next Finance Committee meeting. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 13, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a special malt beverage 
annual permit application filed with the City Clerk’s office for The City of Cheyenne d/b/a  City 
of Cheyenne – Civic Center, 510 W. 20th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Veterans Day holiday and City offices being 
closed on Monday, November 12, 2018, the regularly scheduled City Council meeting will instead 
be held on Tuesday, November 13, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil 
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
Under other business: 
 
Tom Mason, Director, Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization, provided an update 
on the MPO’s planning projects for the Dell Range and US Highway 30 corridor, and the Whitney 
Road plan.  Mr. Mason reviewed the physical areas involved and the status of  each plan ; 
anticipated completion dates for the plans, which will then come before the gover ning body, and 
funding availability.  He  advised traffic data will be reviewed  to assess the need to make any 
intermediate, short-term traffic solution recommendations for US 30 and Whitney Road, and Dell 
Range and Whitney Road, due to the projects’ propos ed actual construction starting time frame.  
During his comments, Mr. Mason submitted a handout containing information about the projects 
(on file with City Clerk’s office).  Mayor Orr advised she requested Mr. Mason provide the report 
due to the number of  serious accidents in the area over the weekend and shared that 
communications have been made with state and county project partners in pledging commitment 
to review data from the accidents to discuss any stop-gap traffic measures that may be taken since 
construction on the projects isn’t slated until 2021 to 2024.  Mayor Orr also stated communication 
with the school district had also been made regarding Dakota Crossing and the Safe Route to 
Schools (school crosswalk area) .  Comments followed on the need fo r moving the projects 
forward; concern with traffic volume impact and incidents, and length of time it has taken to 
develop the plans.  Mr. Mason commented on crash and traffic data and increased traffic volumes 
in these areas over the years.  Mr. Case offered to be a contact point for interested residents on the 
topic.  Donn Edmunds expressed concern with “poor drivers” who do not safely operate vehicles; 
increased traffic volume on small lane roads due to residential subdivision growth, and traffic 
patterns.  Wendy Volk stated moving forward with the City’s Christensen Road Overpass project 
in a more timely manner would perhaps help with traffic issues in the vicinity.  Upon inquiry, Amy 
Allen, City Engineer, advised the bid issuance date for the Christensen Road project is tentatively 
set for January 8, 2019.  Mayor Orr expressed financing, designing and planning for big projects 
involve a lot of time and she is in discussions regarding utilizing  a project manager to assist in 
overseeing large projects.  [City Clerk note:  During comments, Mr. Roybal, due to an unforeseen 
circumstance, excused himself from the meeting at 7:14 p.m.] 
 
  
Mr. Johnson commented on the pending retirement of City Clerk Carol Intlekofer, noting 
her encouragement, assistance and sharing of knowledge during his term of office, and expressed 
appreciation for her many years of service to the City.  Governing body members recognized Ms. 
Intlekofer with a round of applause. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer, MMC 
        City Clerk 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  November 1, 2018 
 
 