MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-11-13 | CLIP_ID: 683 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 683

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
November 13, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott 
Roybal and Jeff White.  Absent:  Dr. Mark Rinne and Dicky Shanor.  Also present: Kylie Soden, 
Deputy City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Case, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Cook and Mr. Luna, Agenda Item #26(b) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr.  Luna 
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 22, 2018.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried.   
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Cowboy 
Dodge, Inc.) and vacated Council Chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs 
as presented, seconded by  Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal 
returned to Council Chambers. 
 
 Public Hearing for a special malt beverage permit application filed with the City Clerk’s 
Office for The City of Cheyenne d/b/a City of Cheyenne – Civic Center, 510 W. 20th St., Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Jason Sanchez, Deputy Director, Community Recreation and Events, explained  
governing body directives and goals involving the Civic Center, and stated due to recent state 
statute and city code changes, it has been determined the City is eligible to hold this type of permit.  
Mr. Sanchez provided information on the proposed  use of the permit  including:  dispensing 
occurring from 1-3 locations depending on the performance; eligible liquor licensees providing 
wine an d liquor sales at certain events; anticipated r evenue from malt beverage sales;  TIPS 
certified staff; positive customer feedback related to  offering malt beverage sales and enhancing 
the Civic Center experience overall. Upon inquiry, Mr. Sanchez confirmed malt beverage orders 
must be paid for at delivery which will require staff to pre-determine order needs to request a check 
payment through the accounts payable system, and that any remaining malt beverage products will 
be locked in a secure area.  Upon inquiry, Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, provided 
information on alcohol compliance checks, stating the Civic Center will be eligible for compliance 
checks under the same protoco l as all annual permit/license holders.  There being no further 
  
comments or input and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the public 
hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapter 12.24, Art in Public Places, of Title 
12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
pertaining to the Art in Public Places Committee .  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr.  White 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of governing body present. (#4247) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of the west half, of the west half of Section 17, T14N, R66W, of the 6th Principal Meridian, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Powderhouse Road, north of Spirit Lane) .  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Case .  Upon inquiry, Amy Alle n, City Engineer, explained due to current and 
future residential and commercial growth in the area of Powderhouse and Gardenia, consideration 
of widening/expanding existing road infrastructure  in the future is warranted.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4248) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County A -1 Agricultural and Rural 
Residential to MUR Mixed -Use Residential Emphasis for a portion of the west half, of the west 
half of Section 17, T14N, R66W, of the 6th Principal Meridian Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west 
of and adjacent to Powderhouse Road, north of Spirit Lane ).  Mr. Roybal mo ved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from HR, High Density 
Residential to CB, Community Business for a parcel of land consisting of Lots 9 through 12, Block 
9, Meadowbrooke Park Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the south east corner of 
Edgewater Avenue and Bluegrass Circle) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning class ification from CB, Community 
Business to HR, High Density Residential for a parcel of land consisting of a portion of Lot 1, 
Block 1, Plaza Del Range, Second Filing Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at 3110 Dell 
Range Blvd., between Hilltop Avenue and Ridge Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending, creating, deleting and re -creating various 
chapters and sections within Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Cheyenne City Code 
  
relating to general provisions, and including adoption of the International Building Code and other 
related Codes, 2018 edition – referred to Public Service Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending, deleting and re -creating sections  within 
Chapter 8.12 International Fire Code adopted, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Cheyenne City 
Code relating to general provisions pertaining to fire protection and regulations, and adoption of 
the International Fire Code, 2018 edition, and cert ain Codes and practices promulgated by the 
National Fire Protection Association – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 2.32, Fire Department, Section 
2.32.020, Department Personnel, and C hapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, 
Section 2.84.050, International Fire Code Board of Appeals, of Title 2, Administration and 
Personnel, of the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the Fire and Rescue Department – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Creating Section 1.08.030, Official Song -Recognition 
and Use, of Chapter 1.08, Official Seal and Emblem, of Title 1, General Provisions, of the Code 
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, pertaining to designation of ‘Cheyenne Anthem’ (©2018) as 
the official song of the City of Cheyenne – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – 
Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Roybal) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat f or South 
Park Estates, 10th Filing, a replat of Lots 1, 2, 5, and a portion of Lot 3, Block 1, South Park Estates, 
6th Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Partoyan Drive and 
Walterscheid Boulevard, north of I-80). Kelly Hafner,  CivilWorx, LLC, agent for the applicant, 
explained they would like to request a 60 ft.  right-of-way opposed to  the 70 ft.  right-of-way as 
proposed in the staff report  that will include a pedestrian pathway easement, and stated  during a 
meeting with City Engineering staff, it had been determined the request for the 60 ft. right-of-way 
would be a fair compromise .  Amy Allen, City Engineer, further explained most right -of-way 
widths in the area are 60 ft.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt with revised map and the following staff 
conditions #1 – provide 70 ft.  right-of-way for 3 rd Street and #2 – correct the name of Thomes 
Avenue, seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by removing staff condition #1 , 
seconded by Mr. Case. Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” -  all members of the governing body 
present.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend staff condition #1  by changing the 70  ft. right-of-way to 
“Provide 60 ft.  right-of way for 3 rd Street”, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Upon staff request and for 
clarification, Mr. Roybal moved  to amend by  correcting the name of Thomes Avenue in staff 
condition #2, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Upon inquiry, Susana Montana, Planning and Development 
Department, explained the property is zoned LI, Light Industrial, and according to the UDC , the 
right-of-way width for an industrial street is 70 ft.  She explained this portion of the UDC is under 
the jurisdiction of the City Engineer, who has  the authority to approve a subdivision standard 
waiver such as a street width  requirement.  Both m otions to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present.   Main motion as twice amended carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present. (#5956) 
 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Hope Subdivision, 4 th Filing, a replat of Lot 2, Block 1, Hope Subdivision, 2 nd Filing, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of E. Nation Road and S. 
Avenue B-6).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5957) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Proclaiming ‘ Cheyenne Anthem’ as the official song for the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal reported there was no recommendation from Public Ser vices 
Committee on the item and explained it was decided to introduce the item as an ordinance instead 
of a resolution, which is included on the current agenda.  The resolution died due to lack of a 
motion. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 
Clear Creek Industrial Park Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Block 10, Lots 1 and 12 of Block 
11 and Lots 1 and 17 of Block 12, Interior Heights Addition, and portions of adjacent streets and 
alleys thereto, situated in the SW1/4 of Section 6, Township 13N, Range 66W, of the 6 th P.M., 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of Arp Avenue and Van 
Tassell Court, east of S. Parsl ey Blvd.) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Aspen 
Creek, a plat of a portion of the west half, of the west half of Section 17, T14N, R66W, of the 6 th 
Principal Meridian, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Powderhouse 
Road, north of Spirit Lane) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Swan 
Ranch Rail Park, Fifteenth Filing, a plat of a portion of the northwest one -quarter of Section 27, 
Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located east of Berwick Drive, north of Tundra Drive)  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Declaring as surplus a C ity-owned property legally described as Lot 1, 
Block 1, Clear Creek Subdivision, 1 st Filing; Lot 2, Block 1, Clear Creek Subdivision, 1 st Filing; 
and Lot 1, Block 1, Clear Creek Subdivision, 2 nd Filing together with improvements thereon, 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and authorizing the City’s Purchasing Manager to proceed 
with the sale of said parcel pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §15 -1-112 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] CFD Park N Ride Planned Unit Development Preliminary Plan for a portion of the SE1/4, 
Section 11 and the NE1/4, Section 14, T13N, R67W, of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming 
(located east of and adjacent t o I -25, north of College Drive) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agree ment between the City of Cheyenne and Russell + Mills 
Studios, Fort Collins, Colorado, for the North Cheyenne Community Park Masterplan  – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
  
 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the State of Wyoming Office 
of Homeland Security for a grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, FEMA, Grant 
Programs Directorate, State Homeland Security Program Grant Fiscal Year 2018 for the Cheyenne 
Regional Emergency Response Team #7 (DHS Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Burns & McDonnell 
Engineering Company, Bloomington, Minnesota, for the City of Cheyenne Integrated Solid Waste 
Plan – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Agreem ent between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and the Wyoming 
Department of Health, Aging Division, to provide support services to persons 60 years or older 
under Title III-B Program Grant for FY19 (grant funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification No. 1 to Contract #6892 between the City of Cheyenne, Public 
Works Department, and Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for design 
engineering of a second level shell and core to the Cheyenne Municipal Court Project (1% Specific 
Purpose Sales Tax).  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, provided informat ion on the 
project stating the modification is for design of a second level shell and core. Ms. Nemecek 
referenced a memo issued by  the City Treasurer c ontaining project funding source information.   
Upon inquiry by Joe Dougherty, Noel Griffith provided information on the project cost to date , 
which includes purchase of the building, asbestos removal, demolition, soft costs and second level 
shell and core totaling approximately $13.5 million.  He advised, upon inquiry, the second level 
would not be used for the Municipal Court and provided first and second floor measurements. Mr. 
White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $31,100.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Luna 
voting “no”. (#6892) 
 
 Amendment No. 1 to Contract #6854, Agreement between the City of Cheyenne an d the 
Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for Animal Cont rol and Animal Shelter Services.  Mr. White 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Upon inquiry, Phil Kiner, Interim CEO, Cheyenn e 
Animal Shelter, explained a third -party audit of policies and procedures will begin in early 
December.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing present. (#6854) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-6-19 for furnishing one new 2018-2019 motor grader for the Street 
and Alley Division (2015 – 2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted 
bid from Honnen Equipment, Mills, Wyoming, in an amount not to exceed $279,190.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -9-19 for furnishing three new mowers for the Parks Divi sion 
(2015 – 2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -7-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events Department, and A To  Z Recreation, Littleton, Colorado, for the Fitne ss 
Course at Lions Park Project (Rec Mill Levy Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
 Appointment of Charles W. Bloom as Director of the Planning and Development 
Department for the City of Cheyenne.  Mayor Orr introduced and welcomed Mr. Bloom.  Mr. Luna 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (Mayoral appointment). 
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Thanksgiving holiday schedule, the regularly 
scheduled City Council Public Services Committee meeting at Noon on Tuesday, November 20, 
2018 in the Mu nicipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 104, Cheyenne, Wyoming, will 
instead be held on Monday, November 19, 2018 beginning at Noon. 
 
Under other business: 
 
Mr. Johnson commented and requested clarification on  governing body participation 
related to site plan  review and miscellaneous study procedures  required during an annexation 
request.  Mayor Orr stated City Council  participation on related items occurs during Council 
Committee meetings and encouraged determining long term maintenance needs. Susana Montana, 
Planning and Development Department, explained the annexation application and review process.  
Discussion included agencies’ involvement during the review process and tryi ng to address 
concerns early in the process. 
 
Mr. Johnson requested clarification on the project dollar amount to date for the Cheyenne 
Municipal Court Project.  Mayor Orr  and City Treasurer Ron Downey reviewe d current and 
projected dollar amounts and discussed utilizing funds out of reserves that are needed in excess of 
the approved 6th Penny project fund dollar amount. Discussion included reserve account balance 
and utilization with Mayor Orr explaining re quired reserve fund am ounts (90 day reserve) and 
excess funds.   Upon in quiry, Mayor Orr advised estimates received to salv age historical 
components of the existing building at the proposed Municipal Court project site  were high, and 
confirmed the building will be demolished .  Public Works Director Vicki Nemecek stated she 
would review the project contract and provide the building demolition date, as requested. 
 
 Mr. Case commented on the possibility of a live performance of the proposed ‘Cheyenne 
Anthem’ at a future Council meeting.  Mayor Orr stated it is her understanding that there is a 
possibility the Cheyenne Children’s Choir will record the anthem and it will be presented during 
a Council meeting. 
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:54 p.m. 
         
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kylie Soden 
        Deputy City Clerk 
   
 
  
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  November 24, 2018 
 
 