MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-11-26 | CLIP_ID: 685 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 685

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
November 26, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott 
Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Absent: Bryan Cook. Also present: Carol Intlekofer, City 
Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Case, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal, Agenda Item # 17 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with the exception of Mr. 
Johnson voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 13, 2018.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried.   
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by  Mr. Case.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County A -1 Agricultural and Rural 
Residential to MUR Mixed -Use Residential Emphasis for a portion of the west half, of the west 
half of Section 17, T14N, R66W, of the 6th Principal Meridian Cheyenne, Wyoming (located west 
of and adjacent to Powderhouse Road, north of Spirit Lane ). Reporting for Public Services 
Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4249) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2. 2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from HR, High Density 
Residential to CB, Community Business for a parcel of land consisting of Lots 9 through 12, Block 
9, Meadowbrooke Park Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the south east corner of 
Edgewater Avenue and Bluegrass Circle) .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Comment was made  regarding support of local restaurants. Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
  
Mayor Orr recognized Ward 3 Councilman -elect Ken Esquibel who was present at the 
meeting. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB, Community 
Business to HR,  High Density Residential for a parcel of land consisting of a portion of Lot 1, 
Block 1, Plaza Del Range, Second Filing Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at 3110 Dell 
Range Blvd., between Hilltop Avenue and Ridge Road).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending, creating, deleting and re -creating various 
chapters and sections within Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Cheyenne City Code 
relating to general provisions, and including adoption of the International Building Code and other 
related Codes, 2018 edition. Joe Patterson, Guardian Development Companies and representative 
for the Southeast Wyoming Homebuilders Association  (SEWBA), expressed concern with 
proposed removal of the fire sprinkler alternative compliance option for multi-family dwellings, 
and proposed changes to the energy code removing (exempting) the commissioning of HVAC 
equipment for new or existing buildings .  During his comments, Mr. Patterson requested those 
SEWBA members in attendance to stand to e xpress their support for retaining the current fire 
sprinkler compliance option.   Upon inquiry, Mr. Patterson advised in the past Chapter 11, Energy 
Efficiency Code, of the IRC (International Residen tial Code) has been removed and substituted 
with the 2009 IEEC (International Energy Efficiency Code), noting the proposed ordinance keeps 
everything the same but strikes out the HVAC commissioning, and provided information on state 
adoption of the 2018 International Building Code, local jurisdictional authority to adopt the IRC, 
and code adoptions by other jurisdictions related to fire sprinkler options vs. mandating sprinkler 
systems.  Tom Jacobson, local real estate agent, provided information on fire statistics involving 
fire systems; costs to builders invol ving mandate of requiring a sprinkler system, which will be 
passed on to buyers; local housing shortage, and fire wall requirements.   During discussion, Mr. 
Patterson and Mr. Jacobson provided information in response to inquiries regarding costs to 
property owners; adoption of codes by the state fire marshal vs. local jurisdiction; National 
Association of Homebuilders stance on a fire sprinkler system, and unknown homeowner 
insurance discount benefit relative to installation of a fire sprinkler system.  Dur ing comments, it 
was clarified the proposed fire sprinkler compliance option change would apply only to multi -
family dwellings.  Upon inquiry, Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, explained Wyoming Statute Section 
35-9-121 which outlines the requirement by municip alities that have local authority to enforce 
codes to adopt, within a set time frame, minimum standards that are equivalent to or more stringent 
than those standards adopted by the state fire marshal, and advised local authority has been granted 
to the City to enforce the codes but that may revert to the state if compliance with Section 35 -9-
121 is not met.  She noted interpretation of this section requires technical expertise from Building 
and Fire personnel.   She further noted that both City Building a nd Fire Department  staff are in 
congruence that the proposed ordinance  meets minimum standards , which agreement has not 
always been the case in the past.   Alane West, Westline  Designs, Inc., spoke on the impact of 
requiring a fire sprinkler system in multi -family dwellings; current housing shortage , and 
  
maintenance costs.  Blas Hernandez, Chief Building Official, clarified mechanical commissioning 
of HVAC equipment means testing of the equipment , and explained the reason to remove the 
requirement was due to contractors advising him that it was an unnecessary cost.  Mr. Hernandez 
explained the change to fire sprinkler systems would affect multi -family dwellings, not small 
residential houses, and reviewed the difference between the IRC and IBC (International B uilding 
Code) relative to what would be required to be sprinkled, and the difference between fire walls 
and a fire sprinkler system , which provides time for occupants to vacate a building in case of a 
fire.  He expressed his support for the change, noting cost is important but the end concern is 
keeping people safe, and his belief that requiring a system follows the intent of the code.  He 
commented on the possibility of looking at modified sprinkler systems as an alternative to reduce 
costs.  Mr. Hernandez  provided information in response to inquiries concerning 13R sprinkler 
system requirements; other communities who require a fire sprinkler system , and water supply 
needs depending upon the system, and confirmed that adoption of new codes is not retroactiv e 
relative to enforcement.  Chief Greg Hoggatt, Fire and Rescue Department, also commented in 
support of requiring fire sprinkler systems in the interest of saving lives, and provided information 
on residential vs. commercial settings, and the effect of fi re walls vs. a sprinkler system, which 
results in less water damage.  He spoke in favor of providing a safer environment for life and 
protection of property, and, upon inquiry, expressed he also supports requiring residential sprinkler 
systems in the futur e.  Discussion included past alternative sprinkler system option; cost to 
builders; potential additional costs for water taps through the Board of Public Utilities, and public 
education campaign to gauge interest if requiring a sprinkler system in single residential homes is 
contemplated in the future.  Mr. Roybal reported there was no recommendation on the item from 
Public Services Committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  
Johnson.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. Shanor reviewed 
changes proposed in the substitute ordinance, which would still adopt the 2018 codes but would 
leave the current alternative fire sprinkler compliance option in place ; reduce fees in certain 
sections of the ordinance relative to a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy (TOC) (i.e. sliding fee 
incentive) and keep the current investigation fees, relating to work commencing prior to a permit 
being obtained, with no fee increase.  Upon inquiry Logan Sharpe, City Staff Attorney, stated staff 
agrees with the substitute ordinance content with the exception of keeping investigation fees at the 
current level.  Evan Asher spoke in favor of a fire sprinkler system requirement citing the topic as 
a safety issue and not a cost issue.  Edward Ernste suggested alternative sprinkler system options 
that could perhaps be considered and spoke in favor of looking at 13D options vs. 13R.  Discussion 
topics included:  Alternative fire sprinkler or fire wall options; compliance with state statute; TCO 
sliding scale fee incentive; IRC vs. IBC; timing of receipt of the substitute document; further legal 
review regarding compliance with codes adopted by the state ; state code adoption d ate; fire 
inspection/enforcement authority; City Council’s amendment process, and distribution of  
information to the public relative to the substitute document.  Upon inquiry, Byron Mathews, Fire 
Division Chief, advised pursuant to adoption of the state codes by the state fire marshal, the City 
has until the end of 2018 to approve.   Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” -- Mr. Case, Mr. 
Luna, Mr. Roybal, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
Laybourn and Mayor Orr.  Main moti on as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing present with the exception of Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mayor Orr voting “no”. 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending, deleting and re -creating sections within 
Chapter 8.12, International Fire Code adopted, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Cheyenne City 
Code relating to general provisions state pertaining to fire protection and regulations, and adoption 
of the International Fire Code, 2018 edition, and certain Codes and practices promulgated by the 
National Fire Protection Association .  Joe Patterson, S outheast Wyoming Homebuilders 
Association, requested consideration to keep the current City Code wording for Section 8.12.030 
(F) in place, which pertains to alternative fire sprinkl er compliance options, and referenced his 
comments on the topic under the previous agenda item.  Mr. Patterson provided a brief history of 
the sprinkler compliance option as approved by the governing body in the past; discussed utilizing 
domestic water taps vs. Board of Public Utilities’ reasons for requiring additional water taps for 
sprinkler systems in multi -plex family dwellings, and suggested, in the future, consideration be 
given to addressing IRC and IBC related codes by separate ordinances.  Chief Greg Hoggatt, Fire 
and Rescue Department, provided information on sprinkler systems, noting several elements are 
involved relative to waterflow determinations; stated he would be amenable to further discussion 
on sprinkler options, and indicated he would in itiate a discussion with the state fire marshal with 
regard to 13D sprinkler options.  Mr. Roybal reported there was no recommendation from Public 
Services Committee on the item.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Laybourn.  Mr . Shanor moved to amend by  substitute, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Shanor 
explained the amendment updates the code to the 2018 edition but allows for the alternative fire 
sprinkler compliance option currently existing in City Code to remain the same.  Discussion topics 
included:  Need for local affordable housing and regional front range competition, past state fire 
marshal acceptance of the compliance option, and past code adoptions.  Motion to amend carried.  
Voting “yes” – Mr. Case, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roy bal, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White.  Voting 
“no” – Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mayor Orr.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing present with the exception of Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn 
and Mayor Orr voting “no”. 
 
Following a brief recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 8:30 p.m. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 2.32, Fire Department, Section 
2.32.020, Department Personnel, and Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, 
Section 2.84.050,  International Fire Code Board of Appeals, of Title 2, Administration and 
Personnel, of the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the Fire and Rescue Department.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Case.  Motion carried. Voting “yes”  – all 
members of the governing body present. 
. 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Creating Section 1.08.030, Official Song -Recognition 
and Use, of Chapter 1.08, Official Seal and Emblem, of Title 1, General Provisions, of the Code 
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, pertaining to designation of ‘Cheyenne Anthem’ (©2018) as 
the official song of the City of Cheyenne.   Scott Meyer, speaking on behalf of AAI Music 
Publishing and the songwriters, spoke in support of the ordinance and commented on proposed 
changes to combine wording in Sections (B) and (C), suggesting that wording be retained 
regarding promotion through advertising, marketing and tourism and by adding the word 
“education”.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Meyer explained fundraising was done to assist with expenses to 
go to Nashville to professionally record the song and the artists paid for some expenses out of their 
own pocket.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . White .  Mr. 
  
Roybal moved to amend by combining Sections (B) and (C) into a new Section (B) to read as 
follows, seconded by Dr. Rinne:  The City shall have non-exclusive gratis rights to use the entire 
song or any portion thereof, the name of the song, for any and all official City commercial and/or 
non-commercial uses including merchandise, and by relabeling Section (D) to Section (C).  
Discussion followed on amending the ordinance per Mr. Meyer’s suggestion, and whether a 
conflict existed with the name of the song and permission had been obtained relative to graphic 
images affiliated with a correlating video.  During comment on whether a conflict  existed or 
permission was received for graphic images, Mr. Shanor raised a point of order that comments 
were not germane to the ordinance as the ordinance does not address the topics with Mayor Orr 
concurring.  Further discussion included who would be res ponsible for enforcement of the 
copyright.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present 
with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend revised Section (B)  
to read as follows, seconded by Mr . Luna:  The City shall have non -exclusive gratis right to use 
the entire song or any portion thereof, the name of the song, for any and all official City commercial 
and/or non-commercial uses including, but not limited to, merchandise, promotion, advertis ing, 
marketing, tourism and education, and by striking the words “and C” in revised Section (C).  For 
clarification, it was noted if anything is disputed in the future between the City and those owning 
the rights to the song regarding whether the City’s use follows the specified uses outlined in the 
ordinance, it would require negotiation between the parties.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  
Main motion as twice amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present 
with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 
Clear Creek Industrial Park Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Block 10, Lots 1 and 12 of Block 
11 and Lots 1 and 17 of Block 12, Interior Heights Addition, and portions of adjacent streets and 
alleys thereto, situated in the SW1/4 of Section 6, Township 13N, Range 66W, of the 6 th P.M., 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of Arp Avenue and Van 
Tassell Court, east of S. Parsley Blvd.).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5958) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Aspen 
Creek, a plat of a portion of the west half, of the west half of Section 17, T14N, R66W, of the 6 th 
Principal Meridian, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Powderhouse 
Road, north of Spirit Lane).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5959) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Swan 
Ranch Rail Park, Fifteenth Filing, a plat of a portion of the northwest one -quarter of Section 27, 
Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located east of Berwick Drive, north of Tundra Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#5960) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Declaring as surplus a City -owned property legally described as Lot 1, 
Block 1, Clear Creek Subdivision, 1 st Filing; Lot 2, Block 1, C lear Creek Subdivision, 1 st Filing; 
and Lot 1, Block 1, Clear Creek Subdivision, 2 nd Filing together with improvements thereon, 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and authorizing the City’s Purchasing Manager to proceed 
  
with the sale of said parcel pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §15-1-112.  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public 
Works, stated the resolution was in response to interest expressed by a potential party to acquire 
the property from the City; shared her knowled ge of what use the interested party may have for 
the parcels, and explained sales proceeds would go toward parks development  and the City’s bid 
process would be utilized for sale of the property.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek provided 
information on City ease ments that may be requested; referenced information she had provided 
governing body members on access to the Belvoir Ranch relative to the property, and commented 
on current property development agreements that were in place .  Ron Downey, City Treasurer, 
explained prior development fees that had been paid were deposited into a parks fund and pursuant 
to the development agreements if the City sells the property , proceeds need to go back into the 
parks fund.  During discussion it was clarified that anyone interested would be eligible to submit 
a bid to acquire the property, not just the interested party (i.e. Dyna Nobel) who made the initial 
inquiry.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White  moved to adopt , seconded by Mr. Luna.   
Discussion topics included:  Hesitancy to sell the property due to potential use as public access to 
the Belvoir Ranch; Belvoir Ranch Master Plan; including any easement requirements as part of 
the RFP (Request for Proposal) bid document, and further legal research on any specific easement 
descriptions.  Mr. Case moved to postpone  to December 10, 2018 , seconded by Dr. Rinne .  
Comment was made in support of postponement to further discuss allowable uses from property 
sale proceeds.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present with the exception of Mr. White voting “no”.  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 
Plaza Del Range, Third Filing Subdivision, a replat of Lot 1, Block 1, Plaza Del Range, Second 
Filing Subdivision, and Block 4 of the Frontier Gardens Subdivision, and a portion of the alley 
adjacent to Block 4, Frontier Gardens Subdivision, situated in Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of Hilltop Avenue and Dell Range Boulevard) – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the 
amount of $49,973.60 pu rsuant to Wyo. Stat. §16 -4-502 – referred to Finance Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to accept as a gift a parcel of real 
property from Cheyenne Ice and Events Center, Limited Partnership – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 CFD Park N Ride Planned Unit Development Preliminary Plan for a portion of the SE1/4, 
Section 11 and the NE1/4, Section 14, T13N, R67W, of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming 
(located east of and adjacent to I-25, north of College Drive).  Mr. Roybal moved to acknowledge 
the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve with Planning Commission 
recommendations #1, 2, & 3 and by adding a 4th recommendation which reads as follows, seconded 
by Mr. Shanor : The applicant, City staff and County staff work together to find solutions to 
mitigate any negative impacts to adjacent property owners  from this proposed development . 
Discussion included impact to the area, traffic flow, road infrastructure improvements needed in 
the vicinity; new site for Cheyenne Frontier Days event overflow parking due to the past site no 
  
longer being available to CFD, and impact of the CFD annual event on other residential and 
commercial areas.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present 
with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Luna voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Russell + Mill s 
Studios, Fort Collins, Colorado, for the North Cheyenne Community Park Masterplan .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $46,050.00). (#6926) 
 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the State of Wyoming Office 
of Homeland Security for a grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, FEMA, Grant 
Programs Directorate, State Homeland Security Program Grant Fiscal Year 2018 for the Cheyenne 
Regional Emergency Response Team #7 (DHS Grant) .  Motion (per Consent Ag enda) carried. 
(#6927) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Burns & McDonnell 
Engineering Company, Bloomington, Minnesota, for the City of Cheyenne Integrated Solid Waste 
Plan.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $274,700.00). (#6928) 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and the Wyoming 
Department of Health, Aging Division, to provide support services to persons 60 years or older 
under Title III-B Program Grant for FY19 (grant funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6929) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works 
Department, and Asbestos & Technical Services, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for abatement services 
(2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to City Contract No. 5902, Wind Energy Lease Agreement between the 
City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Wind, LLC, to amend the property description – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 3 to City Contract No. 3911 between the City of Cheyenne and Bresnan 
Communications, LLC, L/K/A Charter Communications, to extend the contract term – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal of City Contract No. 4989 between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Pipeline 
LLC, to allow limited use of the public right -of-way for petroleum pipeline purposes (revenue to 
City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Professional Services Contract No. 6627 between the City of 
Cheyenne, on behalf of the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization, and AVI Professional 
Corporation, for the Whitney Road 10% Corridor Plan (MPO funds)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -9-19 for furnishing three new mowers for the Parks Divi sion 
(2015 – 2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid submitted by 
L.L. Johnson Dist. Co., Denver, Colorado, in an amount not to exceed $106,720.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -7-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community 
Recreation and Events Department, and A To Z Recreation, Littleton, Colorado, for the Fitne ss 
Course at Lions Park Project  (Rec Mill Levy  Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agend a) carried 
(amount not to exceed $139,910.00). (#6930) 
 
[CA] Special malt beverage permit application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for The City of 
Cheyenne d/b/a City of Cheyenne – Civic Center, 510 W. 20th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Appointment of Elisa Maggio to the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority Board. 
Alane West, President, DDA Board, introduced Elisa Maggio and advised Ms. Maggio would be 
filling a Board member vacancy.  Mr.  Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor 
Orr who did not vote (Mayoral appointment). 
 
Under other business: 
 
Fire Chief Greg Hoggatt commented on the local firefighters holiday bike drive project to 
donate bicycles to children in need, and invited everyone to attend the donation event on December 
19th. 
 
Jeff Dierksen,  stating he was speaking on behalf of the Pinto Lane neighborhood, 
commented on speeding concerns in the neighborhood that he has previously presented to the 
governing body, and communications he has had with WYDOT staff.  He distributed and discussed 
copies of WYDOT rules and r egulations, state statute and Federal Highway Administration 
(FHWA) information pertaining to the setting of speed limits (on file with the City Clerk’s office).  
He further discussed past neighborhood traffic studies and his belief there has been a discrepancy 
in the interpretation of traffic study percentiles relative to determining a n appropriate speed limit 
for the area.  Mr. Dierksen reviewed his previous requests to lower the speed limit or incorporate 
the use of speed tables on Pinto Lane  and provided information in response to inquiries from 
governing body members.  Mr. Shanor requested staff review information at the top of Page 20 of 
the FHWA information provided by Mr. Dierksen pertaining to the section beginning with “ … If 
at least one of the following is true …”, and Mr. Laybourn  requested City Engineer staff review 
whether there was any prohibition on the use of speed tables within the City.  Upon inquiry during 
discussion and comments, Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, and Amy Allen, City 
Engineer, provided information on past speed limits on Pinto Lane, and staff ex pertise available 
to evaluate appropriate speed limits and use of speed tables. 
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 9:43 p.m. 
         
  
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Carol Intlekofer 
        City Clerk 
   
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 8, 2018 
 
 