MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2018-12-10 | CLIP_ID: 687 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 687

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 10, 2018 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal and Jeff White . Absent: Dicky Shanor. Also present: Kylie Soden, Deputy 
City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Cook, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Case and Mr. Luna, Agenda Item #19 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request 
by Mr. Case, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook and Mr. Johnson, Agenda Item #26(a) 
was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Cook, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Case and Mr. Luna, Agenda Item #26(b) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 26, 2018.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried.   
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from HR, High Density 
Residential to CB, Community Business for a parcel of land consisting of Lots 9 through 12, Block 
9, Meadowbrooke Park Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the south east corner of 
Edgewater Avenue and Bluegrass Circle).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4250) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, 
Section 5.1.2,  Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB, Community 
Business to HR, High Density Residential for a parcel of land consisting of a portion of Lot 1, 
Block 1, Plaza Del Range, Second Filing Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at 3110 Dell 
Range Blvd., between Hilltop Avenue and Ridge Road) .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third 
  
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#4251) 
  
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending, creating, deleting and re -creating various 
chapters and sections within Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Cheyenne City Code 
relating to general provisions, and including adoption of the International Building Code and other 
related Codes, 2018 edition. Joe Pat terson, Southeast Wyoming Homebuilders Association  
(SEWBA), expressed concern regarding the lack of utilizing a code review committee, which has 
been the practice in the past.  He stated the building community is in support of the ordinance as 
amended at the November 26, 2018 City Council meeting, and expressed his belief the City will 
be in state compliance with adoption of the IBC.  He requested a code review committee be formed 
for further and future review of building code changes . During his comments, Mr. Patterson 
requested those SEWBA members in attendance to stand to express their support for the ordinance, 
as amended.  Mr. Patterson advised he provided information from the National Association of 
Home Builders during the December 4, 2018 Public Services committee meeting and commented 
on other states’ adoption of codes . Commenting on the ordinance were:  Boyd Wiggam; Chuck 
West; Alane West, President, Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority  Board; Patty 
Reisland, Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities; Patrice Gapen; Tom Jacobsen, real estate 
agent; Darrel McMullen, President, SEWBA; Buck Wilson, President, Cheyenne Board of 
Realtors, and Vicki Hughes and Jon Pietsch, Caldwell Bankers.  Topics discussed included: 
economics related to the  initial ordinance which would require fire  sprinkler systems in multi -
family dwellings,  and how fire sprinkler systems are cost prohibitive ; shortage of affordable 
community housing; costs “trickling” down to tenants; importance of fire s prinklers; fire related 
fatality statistics in multi-family and single family dwellings; support generally for the ordinance 
as amended ; insuring dwellings with fire sprinklers; alternative fire sprinkler  and fire safety  
options; need for affordable and low income housing for people with disabilities, elderly 
population and those at or below poverty; economic difficulties faced by certain landlords; creating 
a solution for a non-existent problem and the need for fire protection in older homes.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on  third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
postpone to Thursday, December 20, 2018 (due to the Christmas holiday schedule), seconded by 
Dr. Rinne.  Upon inquiry regarding the intent of postponement, it was advised postponement would 
allow time for a work session between staff and stakeholders to allow  further discussion.  Mr. 
Patterson clarified the ordinance does pertain to 4 -plexes and commented on fire separation 
measures, International Building Code (IBC) vs the International Residential Code (IRC), and the 
mandate to only adopt the International Building Code.  Paul Frauendienst expressed concern that 
the building community has not been part of a code review committee.  Mayor Orr clarified a town 
hall meeting had been held to discuss the topic of code amendments .  Upon inquiry regarding 
compliance with state statu te, City Attorney Sylvia Hackl  provided information on electronic 
communications provided to Fire Chief Greg Hoggatt from  the State Fire Marshal and read the 
content of the communications  in their entirety.  Discussion continued and included: postponing 
the ordinance; definit ion of a multi -family dwelling; code review committees; incentivizing 
sprinkling, and approving an ordinance by January 1, 2019 to remain in compliance with state 
statute.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Hackl advised pursuant to state statute , the City is required to adopt 
current codes by the end of the year, and if they aren’t adopted, the City would continue to operate 
under the current code adopted in 2016.  Upon inquiry, Blas Hernandez, Chief Building Official, 
  
advised he would like to hold a meeting on December 11, 2018 and include stakeholders, Fire 
Department and  Board of Public Utilities  staff.  He referenced the town hall meet ing held to 
address code amendments , and commented on  fire sprinkler system design alternate options .  
Mayor Orr confirmed the meeting would be held on December 11, 2018 at 1:00 p.m. in Municipal 
Building Room 104, and requested Chief Hoggatt and City attorney staff be in attendance.  Further 
comment was made on the postponement and the potential of going past the January 1, 2019 date 
required to adopt t he codes .  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Cook, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mayor Orr 
and Mr. Luna. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending, deleting and re -creating sections within 
Chapter 8.12, International Fire Code adopted, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Cheyenne City 
Code relating to general provisions state pertaining to fire protection and regulations, and adoption 
of the International Fire Code, 2018 edition, and certain Codes and practices promulgated by the 
National Fire  Protection Association .  Joe Patterson, S outheast Wyoming Homebuilders 
Association, requested postponement of the item to allow for further discussion at the December 
11, 2018 code review meeting as discussed during the previous agenda item.  Mr. Roybal moved 
to approve, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. Roybal moved to postpone to December 20, 2018 , 
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mr. Case and Luna voting “no”.  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapter 2.32, Fire Department, Section 
2.32.020, Department Personnel, and Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, 
Section 2.84.050, International Fire Code Board of Appeals, of Title 2, Administration and 
Personnel, of the Cheyenne City Code pertaining to the Fire and Rescue Department.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4252) 
. 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Creating Section 1.08.030, Official Song -Recognition 
and Use, of Chapter 1.08, Official Seal and Emblem, of Title 1, General Provisions, of the Code 
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, pertaining to designation of ‘Cheyenne Anthem’ (©2018) as 
the offici al song of the City of Cheyenne.   Scott Meyer, speaking on behalf of AAI Music 
Publishing and the songwriters, spoke in support of the ordinance. Mayor Orr recognized Mr. and 
Mrs. Clark Smith who were in attendance and expressed appreciation to everyone who contributed 
to the production of the music video of the Cheyenne Anthem (©2018) featuring participation by 
the Cheyenne All-City Children’s Chorus .  The video was then shown during the meeting .  Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried .  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with the exception of Mr.  Johnson 
voting “no”. (#4253) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR Medium Density Residential to 
NR-2 Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density for Lots 1 and 2, Block 534, Original City of 
Cheyenne, situated in the NW ¼ of Section 5, T.13N., R.66W., of the 6 th P.M., Cheyenne, 
  
Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of east 10th Street and House Ave) – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from Overland Trails 
Planned Unit Development (PUD) to LI, Light Industrial for a parcel of land consisting of Tract 
B, Overland Trails Fifth Filing Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of Clear  Creek 
Parkway and south of College Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 6.2.7 of the UDC to remove the maximum 
parking limitation and to allow applicants to request the Director to approve additional parking  – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Declaring as surplus a City -owned property legally described as Lot 1, 
Block 1, Clear Creek Subdivision, 1 st Filing; Lot 2, Block 1, C lear Creek Subdivision, 1 st Filing; 
and Lot 1, Block 1, Clear Creek Subdivision, 2 nd Filing together with improvements thereon, 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and authorizing the City’s Purchasing Manager to proceed 
with the sale of said parcel pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §15 -1-112 (postponed from 11/26/2018) .  
Alessandra McCoy Fakelman, Assistant City Attorney, requested the resolution not be adopted to 
allow more time for consideration of options for open space on the parcel .  Mr. White reported 
there was no recommendation on the item from Finance Committee .  The resolution died to lack 
of a motion. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 
Plaza Del Range, Third Filing Subdivision, a replat of Lot 1, Block 1, Plaza Del Range, Second 
Filing Subdivision, and Block 4 of the Frontier Gardens Subdivision, and a portion of the alley 
adjacent to Block 4, Frontier Gardens Subdivision, s ituated in Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located at the northeast corner of Hilltop Avenue and Dell Range Boulevard).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5961) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the 
amount of $49,973.60 pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by 
Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated December 3, 2018, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Ron Downey, City Treasurer, explained the amendment reduces the overall uncollectible 
debt amount to $43,607.37 (changed dollar amount reflected in the substitute resolution title) due 
to several companies being removed from the list.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Cook voting 
“no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present 
with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Cook voting “no”.  (#5962) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to accept as a gift a parcel of real 
property from Cheyenne Ice and Events Center, Limited Partnership .  Alessandra McCoy 
  
Fakelman, Assistant City Attorney, explained the parcel of land is adjacent to the North Cheyenne 
Community Park, and it’s anticipated to be included in the masterplan for the park.  Robert McCue, 
Cheyenne Ice and Events Center, Lim ited Partnership, explained this is one of  three parcels 
received as a trade for the ice and events center with the City. Mr. McCue explained past proposed 
use of the parcel involving a request for re -zoning, which request was subsequently withdrawn, 
and stated as this is a natural extension of the North Cheyenne Community Park, they would like 
to return it to the City.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson 
voting “no”. (#5963) 
 
 [CA] RESOLUTION – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code 
authorizing approval of a revised Cheyenne Business Parkway Corridor Plan as a Development 
Master Plan for the Cheyenne Business Parkway  Development (located on the north side of 
Campstool Road between Burling ton Trail and Christensen Road) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a Wyoming Cultural 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement for Historic Airport Fountain , Restoration Phase 1 – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing a one -time payment to full -time and permanent part -time 
employees of the City of Cheyenne (ex cluding the Firefighters Union Local No. 279 and 
employees of the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities) in recognition of their outstanding efforts – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Grant for installation of new synthet ic turf at Powers Field Infield – referred 
to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne sup ports 
the Town of Burns project to be submitted to the State Loan and Investment Board by the Laramie 
County Commissioners, for 2015 -2016 Countywide Consensus Block Grant Funding in the 
amount of $49,500.00 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Public Works 
Department, and Asbestos & Technical Services, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for abatement services 
(2011 - 2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed 
$42,100.00) (#6932) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Vortex International 
Aquatic Play Solutions, Carrolton, Texas, for the design and construction of a splash pad at the 
Depot Plaza (General Fund and Visit Chey enne fundr aising donations) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Utility Easement with Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power dba Blackhills Energy to be located 
along 22nd Street between Pioneer Avenue and O’Neil Avenue – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
 Amendment No. 1 to City Contract No. 5902, Wind Energy Lease Agreement between the 
City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Wind, LLC, to amend the property description.  Vicki Nemecek, 
Director of Public Works, distributed a map  (on file with City Clerk’s office) that show s the 
amended property area which adds 4,700 acres to the property desc ription. Ryan Fitzpatrick, 
NextEra Energy Resources, gave a presentation and distributed information (on file with City 
Clerk’s office) on the planned use for the land, stating they would like to add land to the property 
description on the east side of the Belvoir Ranch  which is compatible with all  present and future 
uses included in the master plan. Mr. Fitzpatrick explained the inclusion of additional acreage will 
allow for 11 additional wind turbines, which will increase the operating payments to the City by 
5.4 million dollars over the term of the 30-year lease, and provided information on payments to  
adjacent landowners, property and sales tax , and jobs related t o the project.  Upon inq uiry, Mr. 
Fitzpatrick explained pre-operating and lease payments have been made and operating payments 
to the City will begin in 2020, and clarified the amendment is for expansion of the leased land only 
and is not a “rubber stamp” for the additional wind turbine project.  Mr. White moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. (#5902) 
 
 Amendment No. 3 to City Contract No. 3911 between  the City of Cheyenne and Bresnan 
Communications, LLC, L/K/A Charter Communications, to extend the contract term .  Logan 
Sharpe, Assistant City Attorney, explained the amendment is to allow an additional three months 
to renegotiate the current franchise agreement.  Comment was made regarding citizen concerns 
with services provided by Charter Communications.  Mr. Sharpe advised he wou ld present 
concerns to  outside counsel during renegotiations, and would provide a future update. Upon 
inquiry, it was noted for the record that Charter representatives were  likely aware of the current 
Council meeting but weren’t in attendance. Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  
Concern was expressed regarding the absence of a Charter representative  at the meeting .  Mr. 
Sharpe explained, upon inquiry, if the contract amendment were to fail, principles of law would 
be to continue to operate on a month-to-month basis until there was a termination, noting the last 
time the franchise agreement was set to expire was 2015 and it was extended in part to renegotiate 
the agreement. Motion failed. Voting “yes” – Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. White and Mr. 
Roybal.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Dr. Rinne, Mayor Orr, Mr. Luna and Mr. Cook.  
 
[CA] Renewal of City Contract No. 4989 between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Pipeline 
LLC, to allow limited use of the public right -of-way for petroleum pipeline purposes (revenue to 
City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#4989) 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Professional Services Contract No. 6627 between the City of 
Cheyenne, on behalf of the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization, and AVI Professional 
Corporation, for the Whitney Road 10% Corridor Plan (MPO funds) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $2,500.00) (#6627) 
 
  
[CA] Amendment No. 1 to Professional Service s Agreement, Contract No. 6828, between the 
City of Cheyenne and Terracon Consultants for the 2018 Capitol North Historic District 
Expansion, to extend the completion date – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #6759 be tween the City of Cheyenne and Collins 
Engineers, Inc., for additional construction management services for the Christensen Road 
Overpass Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Professiona l Services Agreement #6552 between the City of 
Cheyenne and HDR Engineering, Inc. for additional right -of-way work for the Prairie Ave. & 
Frontier Mall Dr. Intersection Improvements Project (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax)  – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
Announcement was made that due to the Christmas holiday schedule, the regularly 
scheduled City Council Public Services Committee meeting at Noon on Tuesday, December 18, 
2018 in the Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 104, Cheyenne, Wyoming, will 
instead be held on Monday, December 17, 2018 beginning at Noon, and the regularly scheduled 
City Council meeting on Monday, December 24, 2018 in the Municipal Building, 2101 O’Neil 
Avenue, City Council Chambers, will instead be held on Thursday, December 20, 2018 beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 20, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of retail 
liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Dillinger’s, LLC d/b/a Dillinger’s, 
1601 Central Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by One East Sixteenth, LLC). 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 20, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 210 1 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a bar and grill liquor 
license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for DBS Napoli’s Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a 
Napoli’s, 1901 Central Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
Under other business: 
 
Mr. Luna commented on a compl aint received from a citizen regarding chip sealing on 
Henderson Drive.  Mayor Orr provided a brief update on the Chip Seal survey, stating it should be 
available by the end of the year, and Amy Allen, City Engineer, advised staff would follow-up on 
the complaint.  
 
Mr. Johnson requested an update on the requested redesign to the school zone on Taft and 
13th St.  Amy Allen, City Engineer, explained the traffic engineer has been attending school district 
meetings and has a list of projects that the prior traffic engineer was working on, and indicated the 
list of projects will be addressed.  
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before  the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:13 p.m. 
         
  
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kylie Soden 
        Deputy City Clerk 
   
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 22, 2018 
 
 