MEETING: Sine Die Meeting and First Regular Meeting | DATE: 2019-01-07 | CLIP_ID: 696 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 696

 
  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
 OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
 Office of City Clerk 
 
 January 7, 2019 
           
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in “Sine Die” Session on this date at 
2:30 p.m. in Council Cha mbers.  Those present were: MAYOR:  Marian J. Orr ; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS: Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, M r. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn , Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. 
Roybal, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White .  Also present were Kylie Soden , Deputy City Clerk, and 
Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney. 
 
 Following the pledge of allegiance, Mayor Orr stated the purpose of the session was to 
ceremonially recognize outgoing the Councilman Mr. Johnson (whose term of office is expiring) 
for his years of service on City Council.   
 
 At Mayor Orr’s request, Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk, read a ceremonial resolution in 
its entirety honoring outgoing Council member Richard Johnson , entitled as follows: “A 
Ceremonial Resolution in Recognition of the Honorable Richard Johnson for his Dedication and 
Outstanding Contributions to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and its Residents.”  Brian Olson, 
Department Commander , Military Order of the Purple Heart , Chapter 800 , and Barry Gasdek,  
Regional Commander, Military Order of the Purple Heart, expressed appreciation to Mr.  Johnson 
for supporting the organization  and Veterans, and for his effort  and involvement related to the 
Resolution proclaiming Cheyenne a Purple Heart City, and presented him tokens of appreciation. 
Mr. Johnson commented on his years of service as a City Council member, fundraising efforts and 
projects he has been involved with, and expressed appreciation to his  colleagues and to his parents 
for their support.  Mr. White expressed appreciation to Mr. Johnson and presented him with a 
Stetson hat on behalf of the City Council. (#5969) 
 
 Mayor Orr announced the First Regular Meeting of the governing body  would convene in 
City Council Chambers immediately following the closure of the “Sine Die” session. 
 
 There being no further business previously noted for the “Sine Die” Session, Mayor Orr 
adjourned the meeting at 2:42 p.m. 
 
       Submitted by, 
 
 
       Kylie Soden 
       Deputy City Clerk 
 
 This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
PUBLISHED: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 12, 2019 
    RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
 OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
 Office of City Clerk 
            
 January 7, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne assembled for its First Regular Meeting for 
2019 on this date at  2:46 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Purpose of the First Regular Meeting was 
to recognize and administer oaths of office to those individuals who were elected, or re -elected, 
at the most recent general election to serve as City Council members, as well as pro vide for 
certain administrative functions. 
 
 Mayor Orr  welcomed those in attendance and introduced Diane Sanchez, Clerk of 
District Court , who was present to administer oaths of office to officials.  Ms. Sanchez  
administered the oath of elected office to the following newly elected, or re-elected, City Council 
members: Scott D. Roybal, Ward I; Mark D. Rinne, Ward II; and Ken A. Esquibel , Ward III.   
Mr. Esquibel and Dr. Rinne introduced family in attendance. 
 
 Mayor Orr officially called the First Regular Me eting of the governing body to order at 
2:50 p.m.  Those present were: MAYOR – Marian J. Orr ; COUNCIL MEMBERS - Mr. Case, 
Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor  and Mr. 
White.  Also present were Kylie Soden , Deputy City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl , City Attorney.  
The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Election of  City Council President for 2019 .  Mayor Orr announced, pursuant to City 
Code, the mayor conducts the election for Council President but does not cast a vote .  Mr. Cook 
moved to nominate and elect Mr. Case as City Co uncil President for 2019 , seconded by Mr. 
Luna.  Mr. Case accepted the nomination.  There being no further nominations, Dr. Rinne moved 
that nominations cease, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote.  Motion to nominate and 
elect Mr. Case as City Council President for 2019  carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote. 
 
 Election of City  Council Vice -President for 2019 .  Mayor Orr announced, pursuant to 
City Code, the mayor conducts the election for Council Vice -President but does not cast a vote.  
Mr. Luna  moved to nominate and elect Mr. Cook as City  Council Vice -President for 2019, 
seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. Cook accepted the nomination.  There being no further nominations, 
Mr. Luna moved that nominations cease, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -  
all members of the gove rning body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote.  Motion 
to nominate and elect Mr. Cook as City Council Vice-President for 2019 carried.  Voting “yes” -  
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote. 
 
 Approval of Appointment of City officials (pursuant to Title 2 of the Code of the City of 
Cheyenne) as follows:  Amy Allen , City Engineer ; Charles W. Bloom , Planning and 
Development Director; Ronald Downey, City Treasurer; Sylvia Lee Hackl, City Attorney; Randy 
K. Hays , Assistant City Treasurer (Board of Public Utilities ); Greg Hoggatt Sr. , Chief of the 
Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department ; Ronnald J. Jeffrey, Juvenile Court Judge; K ristina F. 
Jones, City Clerk/Assistant City Treasurer; Brian N. Kozak, Chief of the Cheyenne Police 
Department; Teresa Moore, Community Recreation and Events Director ; Mark T. Moran, 
Municipal Court Judge, and  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director .  Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve the appointments “en masse”, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (Mayoral 
appointments).  Following announcement of the vote, Diane Sanchez, Clerk of District Court,  
administered the oath of appointed office to the City officials.   
 
 Mayor Orr announced light refreshments would be served in the Council annex adjoining 
Council Chambers immediately following the meeting. 
 
 There being no further business previously noted for the First Regular Meeting, the 
meeting was officially adjourned at 2:56 p.m. 
 
       Submitted by, 
 
 
       Kylie Soden 
       Deputy City Clerk 
 
 This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
   
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 12, 2019 