MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-01-14 | CLIP_ID: 698 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 698

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 14, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne instead met in regular session on this date 
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Absent: Scott Roybal. Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk, 
and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on t he agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 20, 2018.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Sine Die Session of the Governing Body on January 7, 2019 .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from First Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 7, 2019 .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by  Mr. Case.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MR Medium Density Residential to 
NR-2 Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density for Lots 1 and 2, Block 534, Original City of 
Cheyenne, situated in the NW ¼ of Section 5, T.13N., R.66W., of the 6 th P.M., Cheyenne, 
Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of east 10 th Street and House Ave).  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. (#4256) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendment, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map, of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from Overland Trails 
Planned Unit Development (PUD) t o LI, Light Industrial for a parcel of land consisting of Tract 
  
B, Overland Trails Fifth Filing Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of Clear Creek 
Parkway and south of College Drive) .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. (#4257) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 6.2.7 of the UDC to remove the maximum 
parking limitation and to allow applicants to request the Director to approve additional parking .  
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne moved 
to amend by substitute dated January 8, 2019, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to amend carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main m otion as amended carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4258) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Creating Chapter 12.28, Downtown Graffiti Abatement 
Pilot Program, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and providing procedures for the operation thereof  – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Delegating the review authority authorized by W.S. §34-
12-103(b) to the Director of the City of Cheyenne Planning and Development Department  – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development 
Regulating Plan and Section 5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC) amending Ordinance Number 3741, which established The 
Village Planned Unit Development (PUD), by adding indoor entertainment as a land use category 
permitted by right for Lot 28 of Block 2 of The Village PUD, adding a new Section 5.11 to defer 
to the UDC standards where the PUD is silent on Development Standards, and, pursuant to Section 
2.2.1 of the UDC, amending The Village PUD map to reflect Lot 28 instead of Lots 30 and 31 of 
The Village Subdivision for the subject parcel, Cheyenne, Wyoming, (located west of and adjacent 
to Powderhouse Road, south of Old Town Lane)  – referred to  Public Services Committee.  
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 10 th 
Street Subdivision, the west 7 feet of Lot 1, and all of Lot 2, Block 534, Original City of Cheyenne, 
situated in the NW 1/4 of Section 5, T.13N., R.66W., of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersect ion of East 10th Street and House 
Avenue.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#5970) 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Designating local banks as de positories for municipal funds.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5971) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Wiese Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a replat of Lot 3, Block 1, Wiese Subdivision, and a portion of Tract 
79, Allison Tracts, 2 nd Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to E. 
  
Prosser Road, east of S. Greeley Highway)  – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Destin Heights, a plat of the W 1/2 NE 1/4, and the N 1/2 SE 1/4 NE 1/4 of Section 24, Township 
14N., Range 66 W. of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the 
intersection of Beckle and Christensen Roads) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor 
– Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to execute State Historic 
Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) grant agreements for three 2019 CLG 
grants (Saving Places Conference attendance, Historic Airport Fountain Phase 1 Construction 
Project, Cheyenne Façade  Improvement Program Project)  – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events 
Department, and Brian Chalstrom d/b/a Putt Hutt, for premises used as a miniature golf course in 
Lions Park – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HollyFrontier Cheyenne Refining LLC, to 
designate HollyFrontier as the presenting sponsor of Superday 2019, Superday Tour De Prairie, 
and Superday 5k/10k Run – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6918 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI 
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, to add the Guaranteed Maximum Price for Phase I abatement and 
demolition of existing site for the Municipal Court Building Project. (1% Specific Purpose Sales 
Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-10-19 for furnishing one truck for the Fleet Division and one truck 
with a plow for the Facilities Division (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax and general fund).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-11-19 for furnishing one new 2018-2019 cab & chassis with 45-
foot aerial device body for the Forestry Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Transfer of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Dillinger’s, 
LLC d/b/a Dillinger’s, 1601 Central Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by One 
East Sixteenth, LLC).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for DBS Napoli’s 
Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Napoli’s, 1901 Central Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming.   Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. 
 
  
Appointments of Diane Gonnelly to the Cheyenne Housing Authority Board, and Michelle 
Garcia to the Board of Adjustment.   Mr. Laybourn moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the February 21, 2019 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Winter Conference Business 
Meeting to be held in Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday on Monday, 
January 21, 2019, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in 
the Municipal Building, Room 104, 2101 O’Neil A venue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: 
Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, January 22, 2019 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services 
Committee will meet Wednesday, January 23, 2019 at Noon. 
 
Under other business: 
 
 Noel Griffith, Jr. and Jaime Winters, Noel Griffith, Jr., & Associates Architects, provided 
a presentation including handouts (on file with City Clerk’s office)  of the exterior design for  the 
proposed Municipal Court Building Project.  Mr. Winters and Mr. Griffith provided information 
related to materials that will be used for the project and explained the design will include features 
that pay homage to the original building design.  They advised they are working with the Planning 
and Development Department on the streetscape design.  During discussion and inquiry related to 
the possibility of including historical design elements, Mr. Griffith advised that can be considered 
in the proposed design.    
 
 Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, provided information relating to 
issues involving the recent holiday sanitation pick-up process.  
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:24 p.m.         
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 24, 2019 
 
 