MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-01-28 | CLIP_ID: 700 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 700

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 28, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne instead met in regular session on this date 
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Also present: Kris Jones , City Clerk, and 
Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Luna and Mr. Cook, Agenda Item #18(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna 
moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr.  Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 14, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna. 
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Creating Chapter 12.28, Downtown Graffiti Abatement 
Pilot Program, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne,  Wyoming, and providing procedures for the operation thereof . Vicki Dugg er, 
Executive Director, Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority, provided information on the  
current graffiti abatement program process  which is an “opt -in” approach , advising letters and 
abatement forms  were sent to property owners that were affected  by graffiti  with only 10 .5% 
returned the forms. The DDA is establishing a pilot program in conjunction with the ordinance to 
take a more proactive approach  and has approved a $5,000 contribution until end of the current 
fiscal year and a $15,000 commitment for next fiscal year. Ms. Dugger explained graffiti 
abatement work under the proposed program, noting it would be contracted out and spoke in favor 
of it being an “opt-out” program.  She provided information on properties in the downtown district 
advising that many owners are not local.  Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, provide d 
additional information on the current program, explaining volunteers paint over graffiti after a 
waiver is submitted by the property owner.  Richard Johnson spoke about attendance at a public 
meeting regarding the program  and spoke in support of  an “opt-in” provision and asked for 
clarification on how possible citations would affect those who chose to “opt -in”. Reporting for 
Public Services Committee,  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading , seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Dr. Rinne  moved to amend by  substitute dated January 24, 2019, which reflects an 
  
amendment made at the January 23, 2019 Finance Committee meet ing to Section 12.28.040 to 
reflect the program as “opt-in” instead of “opt-out”, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Discussion included: 
Support for an “opt -out” program,  lack of success of the current process, spread of g raffiti if 
untreated, unresponsive property owners, benefits of both an “opt -in” or “opt -out” program, 
concerns with altering property without the owner’s consent and the need for an accurate database 
of property owners in the downtown area.  Upon inquiry related to charging individuals for graffiti, 
Chief Kozak explained there are few security cameras in the downtown alley areas with only two 
individuals being charged in the last several years, explaining those who do appear on camera are 
hard to identify.  He stated convictions typically occur when the Police Department receives a tip 
and reported upon inquiry  that currently white and grey paint is used due to cost. Motion to amend 
by substitute failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor.  
Voting “no” – Mr. Esquibel, Mayor Orr, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr.  White.    Main motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mayor Orr, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, and Mr. 
White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna, and Mr. Shanor.   
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Delegating the review authority authorized by W.S. 
§34-12-103(b) to the Director of the City of Cheyenne Planning and Development Department .  
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development 
Regulating Plan and Section 5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC) amending Ordinance Number 3741, which established The 
Village Planned Unit Development (PUD), by adding indoor entertainment as a land use category 
permitted by right for Lot 28 of Block 2 of The Village PUD, adding a new Section 5.11 to de fer 
to the UDC standards where the PUD is silent on Development Standards, and, pursuant to Section 
2.2.1 of the UDC, amending The Village PUD map to reflect Lot 28 instead of Lots 30 and 31 of 
The Village Subdivision for the subject parcel, Cheyenne, Wyoming, (located west of and adjacent 
to Powderhouse Road, south of Old Town Lane) . Alessandra McCoy, Assistant City Attorney,  
explained a draft substitute has been circulated  based on  comments made during the  Public 
Services Committee meeting designating the  property as a conditional use instead of a use -by- 
right as originally proposed by added indoor entertainment. Based on concerns voiced regarding 
the existing Wyoming Downs location, the Police Department provided a memo outlining criteria 
for a safety/se curity plan for the proposed new site and current location .  Ms. McCoy clarified  
three options for the property are use-by-right, voting the ordinance  down or approving the 
amendment by substitute.  Criteria as recommended by the Police Department can be added under 
a conditional use during the site plan process along with staff conditions.  Charles Bloom, Director 
of Planning and Development,  provided information relating to Wyoming Pari -Mutuel 
Commission involving citations issued to establishments.   Frank Lam b, Wyoming Downs,  
explained hours of operation vary based on racing signals, confirmed proposed plan in conjunction 
with the Police Department to address security concerns, and provided informa tion relating to 
security staff and training.  Kelly Johnson spoke in opposition of the ordinance and location of the 
proposed establishment and provided statistics related to gambling and number of Police calls at 
the current Wyoming Downs location .  For the record, Mr. Case  expressed support of his 
neighborhood which is located in the vicinity of the existing business location and voiced concerns 
  
relating to appropriate locations for this type of business.  Upon inquiry, it was confirmed the 
proposed location for Wyoming Downs will be a secondary business location.   Frank Cole 
provided information regarding a proposed development of a new school on land near the property 
(southeast corner of Carlson and Powderhouse) and voiced  opposition relating to the proposed 
business location. Joe Svec, #1 Properties, explained it is anticipated the business will consist of a 
restaurant on the lower level and pa ri-mutuel machines in the upper level.  Dr. Rinne moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . White.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by  substitute 
dated January 25, 2019, which includes an amendment made at the January 23, 2019 Public 
Services Committee, meeting making indoor entertainment land use permitted as a conditional 
use, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Comments were made on use-by-right vs. conditional use.  Motion 
to amend failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the governing body.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend 
by adding a site plan condition that states at a minimum, staff will require the six safety precautions 
recommended in the January 14, 2019 Police Department memo, before approving a site plan , 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Chief Kozak explained an officer has been assigned to 
the current location for about 4 months and has made safety improv ement recommendations that 
have not yet been implemented by the establishment and confirmed  if Wyoming Downs applies 
for a bar and grill liquor license, compliance checks w ould take place.  Mr. Bloom stated zoning 
violations can be reported by citizens  and any conditions placed on the site plan could be posted 
on the premise.  Mr. Case requested maps of the current and proposed Wyoming Downs locations 
including proximity to nearby schools, licensed daycares and churches prior to the February 5, 
2019 Public Services Committee.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Additional discussion included: Use -by-right vs. conditional use and law 
enforcement issues with current location, placing limitations on businesses if statutory 
requirements are met, site plan requirements, providing data and mitigating issues moving forward 
if ordinance is approved .  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn, Mayor Orr and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Wiese Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a replat of Lot 3, Block 1, Wiese Subdivision, and a portion of Tract 
79, Allison Tracts, 2 nd Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to E. 
Prosser Road, east of S. Greeley Highway).  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt with revised map, seconded 
by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#5972)  
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a County Final Plat for 
Destin Heights, a plat of the W 1/2 NE 1/4, and the N 1/2 SE 1/4 NE 1/4 of Section 24, Township 
14N., Range 66 W. of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the 
intersection of Beckle and Christensen Roads) .  Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development 
Department, advised the intent was to include the revised map in the motion  at the recent Public 
Services Committee meeting but it was inadvertently omitted, noting staff continues to recommend 
approval with t he revised map and staff condition #1.  Mr. Lloyd stated for the record  staff 
condition #1 includes connection to the west subdivision, specifically Lupine Trail.  Tom Mason, 
MPO, spoke in favor of condition staff condition  #1 and reported a Planning Commission 
compromise was made for road dedication for the Lupine Rd. connection.  Upon inquiry by Donn 
Edmunds, Mr. Lloyd explained the property is in the county (within one mile from City) and there 
is no anticipation of  connection to city water or sewer services. Mr. Edmunds voiced concern  
  
relating to potential depletion of the Ogallala Aquifer.  Casey Palma, Steil Surveying Services, 
agent for the applicant, explained a geologist has been hired to conduct a water study due to  the 
number of lots and results will be available to the public.  Mr. Palma advised the property owner 
has reluctantly agreed to staff condition #1,  as long as there isn’t any construction  considered at 
this time and confirmed a historic farmhouse is not located on this property but is instead located 
on a separate property east of the City.  Mr. Palma confirmed the property consists of 19 five-acre 
lots which meets the county requirement for individual water wells and septic sewer systems.  He 
stated the road will be an “s” curve ending in a cul -de-sac, and a reason to keep the road going 
may be for long range planning or if the land becomes part of the City.  It was confirmed that prior 
to January 1, 2019, City approval was required for plats within a mile of the City limits.  Dr. Rinne 
moved to adopt with revised map, seconded by Mr . Case.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by adding  
staff condition #1, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  It was noted for the record the r ationale for staff 
condition #1 is to convey the importance of connectivity.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Roybal voting “no”. Main motion 
as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#5973) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to execute State Historic 
Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) grant  agreements for three 2019 CLG 
grants (Saving Places Conference attendance, Historic Airport Fountain Phase 1 Construction 
Project, Cheyenne Façade Improvement Program Project).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#5974) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2019 budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S.  §16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Mineral Royalty Capital 
Construction Account Grant Application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the 
Governing Body for the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of funding the finish of the second floor 
of a new Municipal Courthouse – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Office on 
Violence Against Women OVW-2019-15743 Improving Criminal Justice responses t o Domestic 
Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Grant Program CFDA Number 16.590 -Grants to 
Encourage Arrests Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program  – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing the del ivery of a comprehensive report on the status of the 
completion of the 26 th Street Storm Sewer Interceptor Project  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation an d Events 
Department, and Brian Chalstrom d/b/a Putt Hutt, for premises used as a miniature golf course in 
Lions Park.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6937) 
 
  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HollyFrontier Cheyenne Refining LLC, to 
designate HollyFrontier as the presenting sponsor of Superday 2019, Superday Tour De Prairie, 
and Superday 5k/10k Run.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6938) 
 
[CA] Agreement to retain the OCHS Law Firm as outside legal counsel to represent the City of 
Cheyenne as a Plaintiff in litigation against manufacturers of opioid prescriptions drugs – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and High West Energy, 
Pine Bluffs, Wyoming, for services dealin g with removal of a power line. (2015 -2018 1% Sales 
Tax Funding) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Vortex International 
Aquatic Play Solutions, Carrolton, Texas, for the design and construc tion of a splash pad at the 
Depot Plaza ( General Fund and Visit Cheyenne fundraising donations)  – referred to Finance 
Committee.  Mr. White declared a conflict of interest and vacated council chambers .  Reporting 
for Finance Committee, Mr. Case advised that due to timing, the item was reviewed under other 
items for the agenda at the January 22, 2019 Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of 
Title 2 of City Code had been met.   Mr. Case moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Ben 
Hornok, Project Manager, TC Solutions , presented splash pad literature (on file with Clerk’s 
office) and explained the main contract change is to extend the  completion date to November, 
noting a targeted July 4 th opening date.  Upon inquiry, Teresa Moore, Director of Community  
Recreation and Events, explained construction could impact Fridays on the Plaza and other plaza 
events including the horse and carriage staging area during the summer, noting fencing and signage 
may be necessary.  Michelle Vaughn, Vortex Aquatic Structures, explained the project completion 
date is dependent upon the planning and design process and construction start date , noting 
construction and completion of the project is anticipated to take approximately five to six months.    
Upon inquiry, Amy Allen, City Engineer, and Ms. Moore explained that due to unknown electrical 
power availability, it may not be possible to temporarily relocated some 2019 summer Depot Plaza 
events to the Civic Center Commons location, noti ng any proposed event use would need to be 
evaluated for power requirements. Additional comments included support of the proposed project. 
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Luna 
voting “no”.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. White returned to council chambers.  
(#6933) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Umpires Association for 
providing services for the 2019-2021 softball seasons – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Summit Engineering, 
LLC, for providing design services for five Greenway segments and 35% design services for 
segment No. 6. (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Laramie County GIS Cooperative 
and Aero-Graphics, Inc., Salt Lake City, Utah, for aerial photography and LiDAR services for the 
2019 Aerial Imagery and LiDAR Project. (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
  
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6918 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI 
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, to add the Guaranteed Maximum Price for Phase I abatement and 
demolition of existing site for the Municipal Court Buildin g Project. (1% Specific Purpose Sales 
Tax).  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded Mr. Case.  Upon inquiry,  Ben Hornok, Project 
Manager, TC Solutions, explained the guaranteed maximum price for the project has not yet been 
established and noted the proposed contract modification amount is the amount for abatement and 
demolition for the project.  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works,  confirmed the contract 
modification price adds the Phase I cost to the original contract price of $21,485 .00 with FCI 
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC , noting t he Phase II  guaranteed maximum price won’t be 
determined until M arch 4, 2019 , and e xplained the original contract amount was for pre -
construction services.  Mr. Hornak explained the pre-construction services.  Upon inquiry,  Sylvia 
Hackl, City Attorney, explained the original contract has been approved by the governing body in 
which phases of the project will be presented for approval .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#6918) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #6892 between the City of Cheyenne and Noel 
Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects for Architectural and Engineering Services for finish of the 
second floor of the Cheyenne Municipal Court Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax and 
General Fund reserves) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #6839 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corporation for partial release of retainage for the Civic Center Commons Park Project (1 % 
Specific Purpose Sales Tax, SLIB, FEMA and Parks funds) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-11-19 for furnishing one new 2018-2019 cab & chassis with 45-
foot aerial device body for the Forestry Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. 
 
 Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the February 21, 2019 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Winter Conference Business 
Meeting to be held in Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. White moved to delegate Dr. Rinne as Official 
Voting Delegate, and Mr. Shanor as Alternate Delegate, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Esquibel voting “no”. 
 
 Appointment of Allan Cunningham to the Board of Public Utilities.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 11, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in 
the City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether 
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for Lot 4, 
Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail Park Third Filing, and a Portion of adjacent Tundra Drive right-of-way, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of Tundra Drive and Clear Creek 
Parkway). 
  
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 11, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in 
the City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether 
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for Lots 6 and 
7, Block 1, and all that 16’ alley located in Block 1, except east 8’ adjacent to Lots 3 and 4, Block 
1 Countryside Addition, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southwest intersection of 
Countryside Avenue and Whitney Road). 
 
Following a brief recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 8:04 p.m.  
 
Under other business: 
 
Donn Edmunds inquired about possible traffic resolutions at US 30 and Whitney Road and 
voiced concerns relating to construction of the intersections involving the Christensen Road 
project. Amy Allen,  City Engineer, advised  WYDOT and MPO a re working together on a 
masterplan to improve that intersection and reported the City is moving forward with relocating 
the sidewalk for pedestrian use.  Mr. Case encouraged attendance at the public meetings for the 
masterplan and advised discussions regarding project funding options are on-going. 
 
Richard Johnson spoke in support of the “opt-in” amendment that failed for the ordinance 
related to the Downtown Graffiti Abatement Pilot Program, spoke about electrical conduit 
locations at the Depot Plaza, provided information on the school zone at Taft and 13 th St., and 
voiced concerns regarding pedestrian walk-ways covered in ice near the Depot Plaza.  
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body,  the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:13. p.m.         
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  February 9, 2019 
 