MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-02-11 | CLIP_ID: 701 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 701

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 11, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne instead met in regular session on this date 
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne (arriving at 6:06 p.m.) , Scott Roybal and Dicky Shanor. Absent: Jeff White. Also present: 
Kris Jones, City Clerk, and Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on t he agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna. Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 28, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal declared a conflict of interest (business interest in voucher payable to Cowboy 
Dodge, Inc.) and vacated council chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as 
presented, seconded by Mr. Case. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present in Council Chambers.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Roybal returned to 
Chambers. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a  public hearing to determine whether compliance of  annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for Lot 4, Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail 
Park Third Filing, and a Portion of adjacent Tundra Drive right -of-way, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of Tundra Drive and Clea r Creek Parkway).  Tawn 
Hillenbrand, Planning and Development Department, advised the annexation request was 
submitted by the landowner, provided information on the property and reviewed requirements of 
and compliance with annexation conditions contained in  state statutes.  There being no further 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
   
Mayor Orr opened a  public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for Lots 6 and 7, Block 1, and all that 
16’ alley located in Block 1, except east 8’ adjacent to Lots 3 and 4, Block 1 Countryside Addition, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southwest intersection of Countryside Avenue and 
Whitney Road).  Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development Department, advised the applicant and 
City staff feel the annexation is not ready to proceed at this time, noting the ordinance has not been 
submitted to the City. Mr. Lloyd advised a second public hearing will be held on March 11, 2019, 
  
and noted it is anticipated the annexation will be considered at that time.  There being no further 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Creating Chapter 12.28, Downtown Graffiti Abatement 
Pilot Program, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and providing procedures for the operation thereof . Vicki Dugger, 
Executive Director, Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority,  spoke in support of the 
ordinance, addressed a concern related to distributing information to property owners and advised 
the DDA has hired help to obtain property owner information from the Secretary of State’s office 
which will be maintained in a database.  She provided ownership information on properties in the 
downtown district, stating 28% of owners are absentee. Ms. Dugger explained letters will be sent 
to owners giving  the option to “opt -out” of the program. Ms. Dugger advised, upon inquiry, 
program funds will be taken out of the mill levy budget line item.  Upon inquiry by Richard 
Johnson, Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, advised property owners will not receive citations 
for graffiti.  Upon inquiry related to the course of action for those who “opt -out” and are affected 
by graffiti, Mayor Orr explained  Code Enforcement may become involved .  It was noted the 
program is a two -year pilot  program. Mr. Johnson discussed graffiti culture and suggestions 
provided by downtown property owners including public education and an area where graffiti is 
allowed.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Dugg er explained initial letters were sent 
through registered mail.  Discussion followed and included: Proposed graffiti removal  process, 
methods utilized to communicate with property owners and the importance of an updated property 
ownership database. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present 
with the exception of Mr. Shanor voting “no”. (#4259) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Delegating the review authority authorized by W.S. §34-
12-103(b) to the Director of the City of Cheyenne Planning and Development Department.  Charles 
Bloom, Planning and Development Director, advised the County determined they will not  enter 
into an MOU at this time and explained the review process going forward noting the City’s ability 
to comment on County plats and the review process does apply to stormwater.  It was reported that 
County Commissioners are required to submit written notice if they disagree with City comments.  
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Discussion topics 
included: Concerns related to the ordinance and the way state statute is written, potential for future 
annexation reque sts that involve land that hasn’t met City standards,  possible impact of not 
approving the ordinance and future discussions with legislature on the topic. Amy Allen, City 
Engineer, clarified when annexations occur, City standards must be met.  Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne and 
Mr. Roybal voting “no”. (#4260)  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development 
Regulating Plan and Section 5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC) amending Ordinance Number 3741, which established The 
Village Planned Unit Development (PUD), by adding indoor entertainment as a land use category 
permitted by right for Lot 28 of Block 2 of The Village PUD, adding a new Section 5.11 to defer 
to the UDC standards where the PUD is silent on Development Standards, and, pursuant to Section 
  
2.2.1 of the UDC, amending The Village PUD map to reflect Lot 28 instead of Lots 30 and 31 of 
The Village Subdivision for the subject parcel, Cheyenne, Wyoming, (located west of and adjacent 
to Powderhouse Road, south of Old Town Lane). Eric Nelson, Principal Owner, Wyoming Downs, 
provided history of Wyoming Downs  business operations including community tax revenues, 
noted average age of customers,  explained the compan y’s interest in the  proposed location, 
provided information on calls responded to by Police Department at their existing location (report 
on file with Clerk’s office)  and stated their first priority is customer and employee safety .  Mr. 
Nelson discussed a future open house to be held at the proposed location to provide  public 
information and, upon inquiry, explained the difference between gambling and par i-mutuel 
waging.  He advised it is his understanding that other nearby and adjacent properties are correctly 
zoned for indoor entertainment . Joe Svec, #1 Properties, explained th e process of acquiring the 
property and reported beginning in 2018, signatures were collected for the  zone change petition 
from nearby property owners and provided information relating to petition requirements . Upon 
inquiry, Mr. Svec advised the former Jackson’s building has been vacant for 2 years with minimal 
interest in the building .  Eric Cook, Chief Operations Officer, Wyoming Downs, provided and 
reviewed handouts (on file with Clerk’s office ) discussing: Business customer base, proposed 
restaurant environment including alcohol and reported a recent decline in business at the existing 
location.  Upon request for c larification relating to a letter included in  the handout, Mr. Cook 
confirmed the letter  is undated  and stated  it was prepared on Novembe r 9, 201 8.  Mr. Cook 
provided additional information relating to desire to expand, details of the proposed building 
layout and operation, incident report involving Police Department calls for service at exiting 
location, projected tax revenues, and potential for ordinance postponement to allow for additional 
public input at a future open house.   Upon inquiry, Mr. Nelson explained  physical altercations 
occurred outside of the facility according to an internal control report.  Speaking in opposition of 
the ordinance were:  Mike Konar, Frank Cole, Evan Asher, Paul Wood, Scott Weaver,  Gloria 
Milmont, Laramie Ringolsby,  Maresa Hilton, Candis Pickard, CRMC Davis Hospice Center, 
Crystal Lewis, Trisha Smedley, Bryan Young,  Joe Fiedler, Holly Fiedler and  Kim and Conner 
Shumway.  Comments and concerns discussed included: Proposed location proximity to homes , 
churches, schools, daycares, hospice center, and other businesses, notification to nearby property 
owners required for zone change, incidents occurring in the existing location parking lot vs. inside 
the establishment,  importance of a safe neighborhood, potential long term financial impacts 
relating to current and future residents and businesses, Police Department recommended criteria, 
data provided by Wyoming Downs, client base, future alcohol service at the proposed location,  
zone change petition process and zoning criteria . Mr. Case advised there are six lots that are 
appropriately zoned for the business directly north and northwest of the proposed location.  Donn 
Edmunds spoke in favor of a secondary location with a six-month provision.  
 
Following a brief recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 8:20 p.m. Jeff Dierksen spoke 
about neighbor’s concerns and voiced support for discontinuation of problematic behavior.  Dr. 
Rinne reported there was no recommendation on the item from Public Services Committee.  Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Luna.  Discussion topics included:  Neighborhood 
safety, community need for entertainment options, incidents at existing location isolated to the 
immediate area of the business , and potential positive  financial revenue impact. Mr. Case 
distributed and discussed a zoning map of the area (on file with Clerk’s office).  Mr. Case moved 
to postpone to February 25, 2019 , seconded by Mr. Luna.   Motion to postpone carried.   Voting 
  
“yes” – all members of the governing body present  with the exception of Mayor Orr and Mr. 
Laybourn voting “no”. (City Clerk note: Dr. Rinne left the meeting due to a previous commitment 
at 8:33 p.m., prior to the vote). 
 
ORDINANCE – 1ST READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lot 4, 
Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail Park Third Filing, and a portion of Tundra Drive, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of Tu ndra Drive and Clear Creek Parkway) – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1ST READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County Swan Ranch PUD Planned 
Unit Development to City Swan Ranch PUD Planned Unit Development (Ordinance No. 3989) 
for Lot 4, Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail Park Third Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (at the 
southwest corner of Tundra Drive and Clear Creek Parkway)  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1ST READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to LI Light 
Industrial for Hutchins Corner 2nd Filing Lots 4 & 5, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of 
and adjacent to Campstool Road, west of Hutchins Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2019 budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S.  §16-4-112 & 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#5975) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Mineral Royalty  Capital 
Construction Account Grant Application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the 
Governing Body for the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of funding the finish of the second floor 
of a new Municipal Courthouse .  Ron Downey, City Treasurer, provided information on the 
amount requested and  the grant application due date (2/21/2019) . Upon inquiry , Mr. Downey 
confirmed the proposed grant is to finish the second floor of the new Municipal Court Building 
and advised if the grant is awar ded and the second floor is not completed, half of the amount 
awarded would need to be  returned.  Joe Dougherty  inquired as to the specified government 
purpose of the proposed second floor space.  Mayor Orr advised the use hasn’t been determined to 
date and will be specified in the near future.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Downey explained project funding 
(general fund reserves  and 6th Penny fund overages), current general fund amount and 60 -day 
reserves requirement.   Reporting for Finance Commit tee, Mr. Luna reported there was no 
recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by 
Mr. Esquibel.  Mr. Shanor abstained from discussion and voting  (business affiliation with 
Wyoming State Loan and Investment Board) and vacated council chambers. Comment was made 
related to the affiliation of the resolution and the upcoming contract modification and the intended 
use for the space .  Mayor Orr advised for the purpose of the grant, specifics are not  currently 
  
needed for space.  Upon inquiry, Ben Hornok, TC Solutions, explained evolving space utilization 
of the second floor involving d iscussions with architects and governing body input on the use of 
the second floor.  Upon inquiry related to a possible postponement of the resolution, Mr. Downey 
advised a postponement would interfere with  the grant submittal deadline.  Mayor Orr explained 
her representation of the governing body before the State Loan and Investment Board and voiced 
concern about missing a  grant opportu nity.  Comments were made re lated to  the resolution ’s 
positive impact on the grant application and determining what will be located in the space.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present in Council Chambers.  
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Chambers. (#5976) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Office on 
Violence Against Women OVW-2019-15743 Improving Criminal Justice responses to Domestic 
Violence, Sexual Ass ault, and Stalking Grant Program CFDA Number 16.590 -Grants to 
Encourage Arrests Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#5977) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing the delivery of a comprehensive report on the status of the 
completion of the 26 th Street Storm Sewer Interceptor Project .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#5978) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Capital Construction loan application to the 
State Loan and Investment Board on behalf  of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne to 
fund the replacement of Fire Station #3 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White). 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Capital Construction loan application to the 
State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne to 
fund the replacement of Fire Station #5 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White). 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing the availability of the production of Tchaikovsky’s The  
Nutcracker Ballet at the Cheyenne Civic Center -- referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Case). 
 
[CA] Agreement to retain the OCHS Law Firm as outside legal counsel to represent the City of 
Cheyenne as a Plaintiff in litigation against manufacturers of opioid prescriptions drugs.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6946) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and High West Energy, 
Pine Bluffs, Wyoming, for services dealing with removal of a power line. (20 15-2018 1% Sales 
Tax Funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $432,000.00). (#6947) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Umpires Association for 
providing services for the 2019 -2021 softball seasons .  Motion  (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6948) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Summit Engineering, 
LLC, for providing design services for five Greenway segments and 35% design services for 
  
segment No. 6. (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount 
not to exceed $124,750.00). (#6949) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Laramie County GIS Cooperative 
and Aero-Graphics, Inc., Salt Lake City, Utah, for aerial photography and LiDAR services for the 
2019 Aerial Imagery and LiDAR Project. (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $38,452.00). (#6950) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Terracon Consultants 
for landfill leachate pump maintenance (Solid Waste fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County 
Conservation District, Rotary Clubs of Cheyenne and Frog Creek Partners, LLC, Casper,  
Wyoming, to install and maintain gutter bins at identified locations in the Capitol Basin to trap 
waste in stormwater and reduce pollutants entering Crow Creek – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Lease agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming  Cattle Co., LLC, Pine 
Bluffs, Wyoming, for cattle grazing on the Belvoir Ranch – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Short Elliott 
Hendrickson Inc. for engineering design services for the M iller Lane and Sunset Drive 
Reconstruction Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Short Elliott 
Hendrickson Inc. for engineering design services for the Airport Parkway Pavement Rehabilitation 
Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  Contract Modification #2 to Contract #6892 between the City of Cheyenne and Noel 
Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects for Architectural and Engineering Services for finish of the 
second floor of the Cheyenne Municipal Court Project (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax and 
General Fund reserves) . Joe Dougherty commented on the elements of the  project and voiced 
concern regarding costs affiliated with the project .  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works,  
explained the amount of the modification is approximately $95,000.  Ben Hornok, TC Solutions, 
stated a work session for utilization of the second floor will be scheduled immediately, as this is a 
time sensitive aspect of the project.  Comment was made regarding determining priorities for  the 
space. Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Luna moved to postpone to 
February 25, 2019, seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Mr. Laybourn advised the postponement is t o 
allow for further discussion related to space utilization.  Mr. Hornok advised upon inquiry, that a 
postponement could potentially delay the project. Jaimie Winters, Noel Griffith & Associates, 
provided a review of the project to date , explained the only component approved for the second 
floor is the  shell and provided suggestions for second floor use such as office spaces required, 
conference room space, etc.   Comments were made and included potential uses for  the second 
floor and opposition of the postponement. (Clerk’s note: Dr. Rinne returned to the meeting at 9:03 
p.m.)  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “yes” - Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Cook.  Voting “no” – Mr. 
Case, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Luna, Mayor Orr, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Shanor.   Discussion 
continued relating to the following topic s:  Future City department occupancy  and possible 
  
renovations relating to proposed second floor of the new Municipal Court Building and the 
Municipal Building located at 2101 O’Neil Ave and status of general fund reserves.  Upon inquiry, 
Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, suggested language for amending Section II of the contract 
modification relating to second floor occupancy involving specific city departments.   Mr. 
Laybourn moved to amend Section II of the contract modification by striking the following: “The 
second floor will be designed to accommodate the following suites of offices: Mayor’s Office, 
City Attorney’s Office, and City Council” and replacing with: “The second floor will be designed 
to accommodate such o ffices as may be designated by Council.”, seconded by Mr. Roybal .  Mr. 
Hornok clarified  that temporary housing of City departments can occur if the second floor is 
constructed as general office space if future Municipal Building renovations are made.  Motion to 
amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Comment was made 
regarding the potential expenditure of additional funds on the project and the possibility of having 
just the shell for the second floor.  Main motion as amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Case, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor 
voting “no”. (#6892) 
 
 [CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #6839 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corporation for partial release of retainage for the Civic Center Commons Park Project (1% 
Specific Purpose Sales Tax, SLIB, FEMA and Parks funds) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6839) 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 5 to Contract #5930 between the City of Cheyenne and Kone, Inc. for the 
addition of 2 Kone traction elevators located at the Timothy E. Wilson Board of Public Utilities’ 
Administration/Engineering Building, 2416 Snyder Avenue (BOPU funding) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6932 between the City of Cheyenne and Asbestos 
& Technical Services for asbestos abatement services for 2247 East 19 th Street to extend the 
completion date – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Contract No. 6743 between the City of Cheyenne and River 
Oaks Communications Corporation for drafting and negotiation of Charter Communications Cable 
Franchise Renewal and CenturyLink Cable Television Franchise Agreements to extend the 
completion date – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-13-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering 
Department, and Reiman Corp. for the Christensen Railroad Overpass & Corridor Project  (1% 
Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase a mobile stage from Stageline Mobile Stage, Inc., Quebec, 
Canada, for the Community Recreation & Events Department – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase traffic paint from Vogel Paint and Wax Co., Orange City, Iowa, 
per WYDOT Bid #18-260CS (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
 Appointments of Lisa Kindel, Justine Whitacre and Jared Dixon to the Mayor’s Council 
for People with Disabilities.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not 
vote (mayoral appointments).  Mayor Orr commented on the amount of applications submitted for 
the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities.  
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 25, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in 
the City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for renewal applications 
for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant,  limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, 
microbrewery, satellite distillery and special malt beverage permits) filed with the City Clerk’s 
office.   
 
Announcement was made that due to the President’s Day Holiday on Monday, February 
18, 2019, regula rly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the 
Municipal Building, Room 104, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance 
Committee will meet Tuesday, February 19, 2019 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee 
will meet Wednesday, February 20, 2019 at Noon.   
 
Under other business: 
 
Rod Stone  voiced concern with flooding issue s in the Summit Drive area relating to 
development of the Thomas Heights addition  and inquired on the status of previous discussions 
with City and County staff regarding initiating a review and analysis of the drainage plan from a 
third-party engineer. Upon inquiry, Mr. Stone advised he has been in contact with an engineer that 
has agreed to provide review and analysis services and confirmed the individual is not licensed in 
the State of Wyoming.   Mr. Laybourn voiced concerns relating to flooding in that area and  the 
need to resolve the draining issues. 
    
Jeff Dierksen distributed information related to a recent Police Department high visibility 
patrol on Pinto Lane (on file with Clerk’s office)  and upon inquiry, advised he hasn’t been in 
contact with the new City Traffic Engineer. Ms. Allen reported the Traffic Engineer has looked at 
some data concerning traffic in the area. 
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 10:03. p.m.         
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
  
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  February 23, 2019 
 