MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-02-25 | CLIP_ID: 703 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 703

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 25, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne instead met in regular session on this date 
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Kris Jones , City Clerk, and 
Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on t he agenda. (Clerk’s note: Council President Case assumed duties of Chair 
during a brief absence by Mayor Orr at 6:02 p.m.) Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to 
support received by Mr. Luna and Mr. Cook, Agenda Items #12 and 13 were removed from the 
Consent Agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook 
and Mr. Roybal, Agenda Item #21 (b) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved 
to approve remaining Consent Agenda items , seconded by Mr.  White. Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present in council chambers. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 11, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Esquibel moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by  Mr. 
Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in council 
chambers. 
 
Council President Case opened a public hearing for renewal applications for existing City 
liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, 
satellite distillery and special malt beverage permits) filed with the City Clerk’s office.  Kris Jones, 
City Clerk, advised the resort liquor license renewal application has been withdrawn for JPK TR 
Cheyenne, LLC d/b/a Cheyenne Staybridge Suites due to non -compliance with State Statute 12 -
4-101(b)(2) as determined during a  recent Wyoming Liquor Division inspection , and was not 
included in those annual licenses involved with the public hearing.  She explained the application 
would also not be included in the renewal licenses that will be considered for approval at the next 
Finance Committee and City Council meetings .  There being no further comments or input and 
purpose of the hearing having been met, Council President Case closed the hearing and referred 
the applications to Finance Committee. (Clerk’s note - Mayor Orr returned to council chambers 
following the public hearing at 6:06 p.m.) 
   
  
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development 
Regulating Plan and Section 5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC) amending Ordinance Number 3741, whic h established The 
Village Planned Unit Development (PUD), by adding indoor entertainment as a land use category 
permitted by right for Lot 28 of Block 2 of The Village PUD, adding a new Section 5.11 to defer 
to the UDC standards where the PUD is silent on Development Standards, and, pursuant to Section 
2.2.1 of the UDC, amending The Village PUD map to reflect Lot 28 instead of Lots 30 and 31 of 
The Village Subdivision for the subject parcel, Cheyenne, Wyoming, (located west of and adjacent 
to Powderhouse Ro ad, south of Old Town Lane) . Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr 
Rinne announced the applicant has requested to withdraw the application to re-zone.  Hearing no 
objections, Mayor Orr advised the item has been withdrawn.  
 
ORDINANCE – 2ND READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lot 4, 
Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail Park Third Filing, and a portion of Tundra Drive, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of Tundra Drive and Clear Creek Parkway).  Dr. Rinne 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2ND READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County Swan Ranch PUD Planned 
Unit Development to City Swan Ranch PUD Planned Unit Development (Ordinance No. 3989) 
for Lot 4, Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail Park Third Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (at the 
southwest corner of Tundra Drive and Clear Creek Parkwa y).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr.  Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2ND READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to LI Light 
Industrial for Hutchins Corner 2nd Filing Lots 4 & 5, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of 
and adjacent to Campstool Road, west of Hutchins Drive).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Capital Construction loan application to the 
State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne to 
fund the replacement of Fire Station #3 .  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Shanor  announced he would be abstaining from discu ssion 
and voting on the current and following items (business affiliation with Wyoming State Loan and 
Investment Board) and vacated council chambers. Upon inquiry, Mayor Orr explained funding for 
repayment of the loan has not yet been determined  and provid ed possible options for loan 
repayment.  Ron Downey, City Treasurer, provided loan interest rates available through the State 
Loan and Investment Board and explained  it is highly advisable to apply for a loan through this 
mechanism.  Concern was expressed for possible utilization of general fund reserves and future 6th 
Penny Sales Tax monies for this type of project.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Downey provided information 
  
on 6th Penny Sales Tax overage fund amounts.  Mayor Orr provided further information on the 
loan program stating during the 2017 legislative session, money was set aside for cities and towns 
to apply for loans for certain types projects and noted the loan application can go before the State 
Loan and Investment Board monthly .  She advised if funds are left unexpended, the money may 
not be available moving forward.   Motion failed.  Voting “yes” Mr. Esquibel, Mayor Orr, Mr. 
Roybal and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna and Dr. 
Rinne.   
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Capital Construction loan application to the 
State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne to 
fund the replacement of Fire Station #5. Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion 
failed.  Voting “yes” Mr. Esquibel, Mayor Orr, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. 
Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna and Dr. Rinne.   Following announcement of the vote, 
Mr. Shanor returned to council chambers. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing the availability of  the production of Tchaikovsky’s The 
Nutcracker Ballet at the Cheyenne Civic Center. Dr. Rinne and Mr. Esquibel declared conflicts of 
interest and vacated council chambers.  Barbara Sandick, Executive Director of Ballet Wyoming, 
explained their mission and spoke in favor of the resolution , explaining it will allow only local 
production companies to perform Tchaikovsky’s The Nutcracker Ballet during even numbered 
years. Ms. Sandick explained the struggle of competing with large national production companies 
and expressed the importance of supporting local arts groups. Stephanie Meisner-Maggard, Ballet 
Wyoming, Board of Directors, expressed appreciation for the resolution, provided information on 
Wyoming Ballet’s goals and their composition and voiced support for local arts groups.  Reporting 
for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Case. David Soules, Events 
Coordinator, Community Recreation and Events,  provided information  upon inquiry related to 
attendance numbers for non -local productions of The Nutcracker  and advised he is unaware if 
notification of the resolution has been provided to Moscow Ballet .  Mr. Soules noted Moscow 
Ballet currently has a performance planned for 2019. Upon inquiry, Mr. Soules advised in his past 
work experience, a governing body had not interjected in facility renting policies. Ms. Sandick 
further elaborated on the difficulties involved with competing with non -local production 
companies, and that a non-compete clause was suggested with Moscow  Ballet but they couldn’t 
come to an agreement.   She advised Wyoming Ballet contracts with the  Cheyenne Symphony 
Orchestra for this production which costs a significant amount of money. Teresa Moore, Director 
of Community Recreation and Events, clarified Moscow Ballet has had 2019 dates on hold for 
some time.  Ms. Moore advised upon inquiry, customers have not been asked if they prefer local 
or national entertainment for events, but they can work on creating a survey.  Ms. Meisner provided 
information on a recent F orward Greater Cheyenne initiative that resulted in  2,800 responses of 
which indicated citizens would like to see local entertainment by Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra 
and Ballet Wyoming.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Case. Comments  were made 
relating to obtaining survey data and the importance of receiving input from Moscow Ballet.  Mr. 
Shanor moved to postpone to March 11, 2019, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Further comment was made 
on the intent of the resolution with respect to financial competition with larger scale entertainment 
entities performing similar shows.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” all members of the 
governing body present in council chambers with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White 
  
voting “no”.  Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Esquibel and Dr. Rinne returned to council 
chambers. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing all revenue from Contract No. 5902 to be earmarked to plan, 
build and maintain recreation facilities at the Belvoir Ranch – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the hiring of three (3) additional uniformed officers for the 
Cheyenne Police Department – referred o Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submittal of a request to the Wyoming State Loan and 
Investment Board to amend Drinking Water State Revolving Fund #133 from $3.0 million to $4.9 
million for the City of Cheyenne Hydroelectric Generation Facility Project and authorizing the 
Mayor, City Clerk and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to sign all loan documents – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Calling for a drainage study to be conducted for and around the Thomas 
Heights Development – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Terracon Consultants 
for landfill leachate pump maintenance (Solid Waste fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(amount not to exceed $36,000.00). (#6955) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County 
Conservation Dis trict, Rotary Clubs of Cheyenne and Frog Creek Partners, LLC, Casper, 
Wyoming, to install and maintain gutter bins at identified locations in the Capitol Basin to trap 
waste in stormwater and reduce pollutants entering Crow Creek .  Motion (per Consent Agen da) 
carried. (#6956) 
 
 Lease agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Cattle Co., LLC, Pine 
Bluffs, Wyoming, for cattle grazing on the Belvoir Ranch .  Craig La Voy, Deputy Director of  
Public Works, advised five proposals were received and Wyoming Cattle Co., LLC was selected. 
He explained the contract is for three years  with an annual revenue of  $187,477.50.  Mr. LaVoy 
explained, upon inquiry, that historically the contract was for three years with occasional one year 
contract extensions.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6957) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Short Elliott 
Hendrickson Inc. for engineering design services for the Miller Lane and Sunset Drive 
Reconstruction Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount 
not to exceed $50,260.31). (#6958) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Short Elliott 
Hendrickson Inc. for engineering design services for the Airport Parkway Pavement Rehabilitation 
Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed 
$46,463.60). (#6959) 
  
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI, P.C. for 
engineering design and construction management services for the Allison Road and Cribbon 
Avenue Street Improvements Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 [CA] Amendment No. 5 to Contract #5930 between the City of Cheyenne and Kone, Inc. for the 
addition of 2 Kone traction elevators located at the Timothy E. Wilson Board of Public Utilities’ 
Administration/Engineering Building, 2416 Snyder Avenue (BOP U funding) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (amount of $6,872.16 annually).  (#5930) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6932 between the City of Cheyenne and Asbestos 
& Technical Services for asbestos abatement services for 2247 East 19 th Street to extend the 
completion date.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6932) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Contract No. 6743 between the City of Cheyenne and River 
Oaks Communications Corporation for drafting and negotiation of Charter Communications Cable 
Franchise Renewal and CenturyLink Cable Television Franchise Agreements to extend the 
completion date .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $15,000.00) .  
(#6743) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6951 between th e City of Cheyenne and Ramaker 
& Associates, Inc. for data conversion and software maintenance for the City’s Cemetery records 
(Information Technology Division Maintenance Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 4 to Contract No. 3911 between the City of Cheyenne and Bresnan 
Communications, LLC, l/k/a/ Charter Communications to extend the term of the contract until 
May 31, 2019 – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S-13-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering 
Department, and Reiman Corp. for the Christensen Railroad Overpass & Corridor Project  (1% 
Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Sam Berta , Staff Engineer, Engineering Department,  explained 
Reiman Corp. was the lowest bidder, noting  HDR Engineering, Inc.  (HDR) supported 
recommendation for approval of the bid.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Berta advised the bid  doesn’t 
incorporate all project components and charges,  explained easements are in place with nearby 
landowners and stated HDR will be bringing forward a contract modification for bridge material 
testing. Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $10,557,155.01, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Comment was made regarding the methodology of the project.  Scott Larsen, Benchmark 
Engineers, advised, upon inquiry, Benchmark Engineers was not involved in the bid process which 
he believes resulted in incorrect answers to bid questions  and commented it is his belief that  his 
signature on previous documentation for the project is null and void.  Amy Allen, City Engineer, 
commented on the validity of drawings completed by an unauthorized party and suggested further 
review of the issue.  Comments were made relating to a similar project where the City became the 
project manager and the importance of competition of engineering services in the community . 
Mayor Orr raised a point of order stating discussion was not germane to the motion on the floor.  
Upon inquiry, Mr. Larsen explained additional companies have not had involvement with the 
project to the best of his knowledge.  Ms. Allen provided additional information relating to the 
  
project’s bid process. Logan Sharpe, Assistant City Attorney, advised he is unaware of another 
scenario where a construction company participated in a bidding process  and stated it is his 
understanding it didn’t happen in this case.  Mr. Larsen explained bid information was adjusted 
based on information received by Reiman  Corp. and others.  Comments were made regarding : 
Potential conflict of interest, cost of the project and Reiman Corp.’s involvement as a subcontractor 
in the bid process .  Upon inquiry,  Mr. Larsen  advised Benchmark Engineers would not be 
refunding any payment received by the City relating to previous project services. Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn 
and Mr. Luna voting “no”. (#6960) 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase a mobile stage from Stageline Mobile Stage, Inc., Quebec, 
Canada, for the Community R ecreation & Events Department. Jason Sanchez, Assistant, Deputy 
Director, Community Recreation and Events, requested consideration for approval, explained due 
to the upcoming construction of the recently approved Depot Plaza Splash Pad the City will need 
to change the location of events that require a stage, advised the mobile stage could be utilized for 
other departments and upon inquiry, reported could possibly generate revenue through rentals and 
advertising.  Mr. Sanchez explained upon further inquiry, the maintenance building area at the 
Depot Plaza can accommodate power for a stage but isn’t intended to be used as one.  Mayor Orr 
and Mr. Downey provided information on 6 th Penny Sales tax overage funds, which could 
potentially be utilized to purchase the stage. Mr. Sanchez explained, upon inquiry, the mobile stage 
should be able to be used for 15 -20 years  and confirmed the purchase of the stage was not 
previously budgeted for in the Community Recreations and Events budget.   Mr. White moved to 
approve in an amount not to exceed $185,541.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Comments were made 
regarding: Capital needs, utilizing 6th Penny Sales Tax overage funds and other potential funding 
options.  Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney, explained, upon inquiry, an amendment could be made to 
identify a funding source, or the purchase consideration could be approved with a future resolution 
identifying the revenue source.  Mr. Laybourn moved to amend by utilizing 6th Penny Sales Tax 
overage funds as the funding so urce, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Com ments continued and 
included: Lack of identified funding prior to purchase request, request for Community Recreation 
and Events to determine a funding source,  desire for additional entertainment options , potential 
for revenue through rentals and advertising and appropriateness of funding options.  Mr. Downey 
explained funds could re-appropriated from various accounts.  Mayor Orr explained the possibility 
of a future process for expending 6 th Penny Sales Tax overage fund s.  Motion to amend failed.   
Voting “no” - all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “yes”.  
Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. 
Rinne voting “no”.  
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase traffic paint from Vogel Paint and Wax Co., Orange City, Iowa, 
per WYDOT Bid #18-260CS (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-13-19 for the Surplus Sale of “United Rotary Brus h, United Pro 
Strip Brooms”, for the Street & Alley Division (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 11, 2019 at 6:00  p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyomi ng, to determine whether 
  
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for or all of 
Lots 6 and 7, Block 1, and all that 16' alley located in Block 1, Countryside Addition,  Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located southwest of th e intersection of Countryside Avenue and Whitney 
Road). 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 11, 2019 at 6:00  p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether 
compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for all of FW 
Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection  of College Drive 
and Southwest Drive). 
 
Under other business: 
 
Mr. Cook noted that at the February 11, 2018 City Council meeting, the motion to approve 
Contract Modification No. 2 to City Contract No. 6892 between the City of Cheyenne and Noel 
Griffith Jr. & Associates Architects for architectural and engineering services for finish of the 
second floor of the Cheyenne Municipal Court Project passed.  Mr. Cook, advising he had voted 
on the prevailing side, and pursuant to City Code Chapter 2.04, moved to reconsider the vote taken 
on the main motion, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Comments were made on the process involving a 
motion to reconsider to allow for public input. Kris Jones, City Clerk, explained the item can be 
voted on or postponed allowing future public input.  Motion to reconsider failed (tie vote).  Voting 
“yes” - Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.  Voting “no” - Mr. Esquibel, 
Mr. Laybourn, Mayor Orr, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White. 
 
Mr. Case advised he has received citizen complaints regarding debris from the chip sealing 
and restriping programs.  Sam Berta, Staff Engineer, explained he will look in to remedying the 
issue.  
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:54 p.m.        
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 8, 2019 
 