MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-03-11 | CLIP_ID: 704 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 704

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 11, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne instead met in regular session on this date 
beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Kris Jones , City Clerk, and 
Sylvia Hackl, City Attorney.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on t he agenda. Mr. Luna moved to approve  remaining Consent Agenda items , 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mr. Shanor who abstained. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on February 22, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 25, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on February 27, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on February 28, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by  Mr. Case.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
Mayor Orr  opened a Public Hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for or all of Lots 6 and 7, Block 1, and 
all that 16' alley located in Block 1, Countryside Addition,  Laramie County, Wyoming (located 
southwest of the intersection of Countryside Avenue and Whitney Road).  Seth Lloyd, Planning 
and Development Department, advised the annexation request was submitted by the landowner,  
provided information on the property  and reviewed requirements of and compliance with 
annexation conditions contained in state statutes and advised this is the second public hearing due 
to the project being postponed.  Mr. Lloyd advised a genda item #14 is the affiliated annexation 
ordinance.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, 
Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
  
 
Mayor Orr opened a Public Hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for all of FW Subdivision, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of College Drive and Southwest Drive) .  
Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development Department, advised the annexation request was submitted 
by the landowner,  provided information on the property  and reviewed requirements of and 
compliance with annexation conditions contained in state statutes  advised the annexation request 
was submitted by the landowner,  and a dvised agenda item #17 is the affiliated annexation 
ordinance.  Dr. Kay Sheehan, adjacent property owner, advised she received a letter regarding the 
proposed annexation, stating meeting information was not included and voiced concerns relating 
to required development signage. D r. Sheehan read a letter into the record advising it is her 
understanding county staff was unaware of the proposed annexation and provided information on 
how the annexation would affect her land and adjacent property owners.  She expressed concerns 
regarding: City improvements that would have to be reimbursed if her property is sold, potential 
for increased traffic and crime if additional businesses were to open in the area and requested 
consideration to postpone or deny the proposed annexation.  Glen Connor spoke in opposition of 
the proposed annexation and voiced concerns relating to development improvements and required 
reimbursements and noted previous estima te amount for improvements . Mr. Connor requested 
confirmation in writing that he and other area property owners w ouldn’t be responsible for 
reimbursement of developer fees. Mayor Orr advised reimbursement requirement s will be 
researched.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Lloyd advised the Planning Department followed state statu te 
notification requirements for annexation petitions reporting notification was sent to nearby 
property owners within 300 ft.  It was noted  UDC development signage requirements w ere 
followed, but weather conditions may have contributed to signs blowing down. D evelopers must 
make a good faith effort to ensure the notices remain posted.  There being no further comments or 
input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3RD READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Lot 4, 
Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail Park Third Filing, and a portion of Tundra Drive, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of Tundra Drive and Clear Creek Parkway). Reporting 
for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4261) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3RD READING – Pursuant to Secti on 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County Swan Ranch PUD Planned 
Unit Development to City Swan Ranch PU D Planned Unit Development (Ordinance No. 3989) 
for Lot 4, Block 2, Swan Ranch Rail Park Third Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the 
southwest corner of Tundra Drive and Clear Creek Parkwa y).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. (#4262) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3RD READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to LI Light 
  
Industrial for Hutchins Corner 2nd Filing Lots 4 & 5, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of 
and adjacent to Campstool Road, west of Hutchins Drive) .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third 
and final reading , seconded by Mr.  Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4263) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, all of Lots 
6 and 7, Block 1, and all that 16’ alley located in Block 1, Countryside Addition, Laramie, County, 
Wyoming, (located southwest of the intersection of Countr yside Avenue and Whitney Road)  – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning District Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultural Residential 
to CB Community Business for all of Lots 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, and 8, Block 1 and all of Lots 2, 3, and 4, 
Block 2, Countryside Addition, Laramie County Wyoming, (located south of Countryside Avenue, 
west of Whitney Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, all of FW 
Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (Located northeast of the intersection of College Drive 
and Southwest Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning District Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County CB Community  Business to 
CB Community Business for all of FW Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast 
of the intersection of College Drive and Southwest Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning District Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 
5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Unified Development Code, amending the 
zoning classification for a portion of the southeast quarter of Section 11 and the northeast quarter 
of  Section 14 in Township 13 North, Range 67 West from the Overland Trails Planned Unit 
Development (PUD) to the CFD Park -N-Ride PUD for the 27.69-acre Lot 1 of the CFD Park -N-
Ride Subdivision in the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of Southwest 
Drive, north of College Drive, and adjacent to I -25) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapters 5.48, Detective, Patrol and Guard 
Service Businesses, 5.52, Massage Establishments, and 5.72, Public Transportation, within Title 
5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing the availability of the production of Tchaikovsky’s The 
Nutcracker Ballet at the Cheyenne Civic Center  (Postponed from February 25, 2019).  Dr. Rinne 
  
and Mr. Esquibel declared conflicts of interest and vacated council chambers. Stephanie Meisner-
Maggard, Ballet Wyoming, Board of Directors, expressed support for the resolution and articulated 
this will allow the ballet to conduct the production with local organizations.   She explained she 
distributed survey information obtained from a Forward Greater Cheyenne  initiative she spoke 
about at the last council meeting .  Barbara Sandick, Executive Director of  Ballet Wyoming, 
advised there are many professional dancers locally and provided information on professional 
training companies that local dancers have attended.  She explained the concept of a “routed tour” 
which involves many performances along a route in a certain timeframe and provided information 
relating to a radius clause.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Sandick advised  Ballet Wyoming  has funding 
sources necessary to conduct The Nutcracker production every other year.  Julie  and Gracie Fogg 
provided information about Ballet Wyoming and local dancers and spoke in favor of the resolution.   
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. Shanor 
moved to amend by adding at the end of the “Be it further resolved ” clause: “This resolution 
sunsets January 1, 2023”, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Comment was made relating to community spirit 
and the governing body taking an arbitrary approach.  Ms. Sandick spoke in support of the 
amendment.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present 
in council chambers. Jason Sanch ez, Deputy Director of Community Recreation and Events, 
explained upon inquiry , contact was made with Moscow Ballet .  It was noted there are many  
professional traveling production companies.   Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present in council chambers.  Following announcement of the 
vote, Mr. Esquibel and Dr. Rinne returned to council chambers. (#5979) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing all revenue from Contract No. 5902 to be earmarked to plan, 
build and maintain recreation facilities at the Belvoir Ranch .  Todd Thibodeou, Belvoir Master 
Plan planning committee, explained wind generation will have a significant impact to the property.  
Mr. Thibodeou voiced support for wind energy revenue going towards recreational improvements.  
Speaking in support of recreational development on the property were: Barb Gorg es, Cheyenne 
High-Plains Audubon Society, Peter Skram, Wyoming Pathways, Cheyenne Mountain Bike Club 
and Overland Mountain Bike Association, Jean Sh iverdecker, Gr anite Cano n, Caroline Esch, 
Cheyenne Mountain Bike Club and  highschool Mountain Bike Team coach and  Jodee Pring , 
highschool Mountain Bike Team coach.  Topics discussed included: Opposition of utilizing so 
much of the land for wind turbines, maintaining recreational value of property and mountain biking 
trails, racing and riding opportunities on the property .  Brad Brooks, Director of BOPU, spoke 
about water studies on the property, City and Board contributions for purchasing costs, and noted 
any BOPU revenue from the wind energy project w ill go towards water development expansion. 
Mr. Brooks explained funding options relating to water development projects, stating the Board 
will apply for state loan if they don’t receive enough project revenue and explained sewer loan 
limitations. Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, referenced a memo distributed previously 
regarding F inance Committee comments stating the solid waste fund  could utilize additional 
revenue to supplement maintenance on the ranch.  Ms. Nemecek provided landfill design costs 
and explained development was halted due to cost estimates of the project. Comments were made 
regarding possible future uses for the Belvoir Ranch and ranch management during windfarm 
development. Mr. Roybal advised a financial plan must be submitted for the project and there is a 
10-year sunset date on the resolution. Teresa Moore, Community Recreation and Events Director; 
advised public access contributed to delayed recreation al development on the  property.  She  
  
discussed maintenance and affiliated costs for the property.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded 
by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated March 8, 2019, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Ms. Nemecek confirmed wind farm revenue amounts and provided cost inf ormation 
associated with the landfill expansion.  Comment was made regarding concern for not fully 
utilizing the land for recreational us e and how long maintenance will  be needed for the wind 
turbines.  Mayor Orr explained turbines are eventually removed . Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek 
explained the need for cattle grazing on the property and how cattle are fenced in areas throughout 
the grazing period.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Dr. Rinne a nd Mr. Luna  voting “no”. Comments were made on the 
postponement.  Alessandra McCoy Fakelman , Assistant City Attorney,  explained proposed 
revenue distribution amounts are undetermined and suggested addressing the matter in the annual 
city budget ordinance.  It was noted the master plan for the Belvoir Ranch is available for review.  
Comment was made related to wind farm  revenue utilization for recreation in other areas of the 
city.   Mr. Case moved to postpone to March 25, 2019, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion to postpone 
carried. Voting “yes” all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. White  voting 
“no”. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the hiring of three (3) additional uniformed officers for the 
Cheyenne Police Department.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5980) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submittal of a request to the Wyoming State Loan and 
Investment Board to amend Drinking Water State Revolving Fund #133 from $3.0 million to $4.9 
million for the City of Cheyenne Hydroelectric Gen eration Facility Project and authorizing the 
Mayor, City Clerk and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to sign all loan documents .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5981) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Calling for a drainage study to be conducted for and around the Thomas 
Heights Development. Speaking in support of the resolution were: Rod Stone, Larry Bechtoldt and 
Bill Spillman.  Topic discussed included: C oncern with flooding related to the development  of 
Thomas Heights, current stormwater drainage language in the UDC, significant flooding events in 
the area caus ing considerable damage, water drainage in Sunrise Heights  and money spent by 
property owners on water mitigation. Mr. White moved to a dopt, se conded by Mr . Laybourn .  
Discussion topics included: mitigating flooding issues, subdivision  development contributing to  
flooding neighboring areas,  benefit of hiring a 3 rd party consultant for a drainage review, storm 
water utility charges, funding mechan ism to pay for  a drainage study, preventative measures for 
future developments, stormwater drainage maps and 2009 groundwater drainage plans. Mr. Case 
moved to amend by adding a new line 1 to read: “Direct the City Engineer to develop a detailed 
scope for the project, and to put the project out to bid pursuant to the procedures set forth in Part 
III of the City of Cheyenne’s Purchasing Policy and Procedures Manual, Professional Services – 
Architects, Engineers and Surveyors”, renumber section 1 to 2 , strike the words “an honest” and 
replace with “ a thorough” in section 2, renumber section 2 to 3 and insert “this Governing Body” 
after the word “residents” in section 3, seconded by Mr. Layb ourn.  Amy Allen, City Engineer, 
suggested a SOQ (consultant services – Statement of Qualifications) or bid process for the study.  
Mr. Stone advised he  has attempted  to resolve the issue with Guardian Homebuilders. Donn 
Edmunds spoke about a floodwater si tuation he had been involved with in a different area of the 
  
city. Ms. Allen and Sylvia Hack, City Attorney provided further information on the SOQ, RFP and 
bid processes.  Motion to amend failed. Voting “no”  - all members of the governing body.   
Discussion continued and included: R esolution language, city and county involvement, 
establishing responsibility for resolution of  the drainage issue, funding source for potential 
drainage evaluation by a third -party and concern with prior analysis’. Upon inquiry, Ms. Allen 
explained drainage pond requirements in the area, drainage engineer review of original plans and 
the need for review of City code regarding flooding. Chris Lovas, AVI Engineering, P.C., provided 
information on their analysis and the 3-pond plan for the area stating the plan included expansion 
of an existing drainage pond and  infrastructure installment in the Granite Hills Subdivision .  
Further discussion continued on information contained in a report from Benchmark  Engineers.   
Motion failed. Voting “yes” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White. 
Voting “no” - Mr. Case, Mr. Luna, Mayor Orr, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Naming the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Grand Conservatory the Shane 
Smith Grand Conservatory – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Case, Mr. 
Cook, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Providing for the budgeting of excess 1% Specific Purpose Sales and 
Use Taxes collected for the August 21, 2012 voter -approved specific purposes – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor) 
 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for US 30 Business Plaza, Second Filing, a replat of Lots 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 
and 8, Block 1 and all of Lots 2, 3, and 4, Block 2, and all of T im Tam Street, and all of that 16’ 
alley located in Block 1, Countryside Addition, together with Lots 7, 8, and 9, Block 1, US 30 
Business Plaza, Cheyenne, Laramie County Wyoming, (located south of  and adjacent to 
Countryside Avenue, west of Whitney Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Preliminary PUD for Harmony Valley, a portion of the S½ of Section 7 and the SE¼NE¼ 
of Section 7, T.13N., R.66W., 6 th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of 
and adjacent to W. College Drive, west of Walterscheid Boulevard) – referred to Public Services 
Committee.  
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI, P.C. for 
engineering design and construction management services for the Allison Road and Cribbon  
Avenue Street Improvements Project (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax). Wes ley Bay, Deputy City 
Engineer, provided a staff report for the project.  School Resource Officer Becky Juschka, Johnson 
Junior High, reported traffic is a concern in the area of the school due multiple factors including – 
confusing traffic pattern, busses causing lack of visibility and crosswalk placement.  Coley Maurer, 
spoke in support of the proposed improvement project and stated her daughter was recently injured 
by a vehicle in the intersection. Jeff Dierksen spoke in support of the agreement.  Mr. White moved 
to approve in an amount not to exceed $69,500.00, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry, Anissa 
Gerard, Traffic Engineer, explained in her experience the practice has been  to not to reduce the 
speed limit in junior and senior high school zones. She believes a plan to revise the traffic flow in 
the intersection will naturally reduce speeds and advised temporary measures will be implemented 
until construction starts on June 4 th.  Ms. Gerard advised signs will be installed with median and 
  
flashing lights.  Comments were made regarding the importance of crosswalks and crosswalk 
safety. Ms. Gerard explained she meets with the school district monthly to discuss safety.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6963) 
 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between  the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for the 
housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services Center located at the Archer 
Complex – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and 
Laramie County for housing City Prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment to Contract #6905 between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 for school resource officers for the 2018-
2019 school year and summer school 2019 – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 
[CA] Lease agreement  between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Country Club for 
continued use of the premises located on Stinner  Road for a period of 100 years – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6951 between the City of Cheyenne and Ramaker 
& Associates, Inc. for data conversion and software maintenance for the City’s Cemetery records 
(Information Technology Division Maintenance Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in 
the amount of $5,600.00). (#6951) 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 4 to Contract No. 3911 between the City of Cheyenne and Bresnan 
Communications, LLC, l/k/a/ Charter Communic ations to extend the term of the contract until 
May 31, 2019.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#3911) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 6660 between the City of Cheyenne and WYCO 
Recycling LLC for recycling services to increase the tipping fee for recyclables, monthly minimum 
payment, and annual not-to-exceed cost (Solid Waste fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Co ntract #6785 between the City of Cheyenne and HDR 
Engineering Inc. for additional construction management services for the Christensen Road 
Overpass Project (6th Penny Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-13-19 for the Surplus Sale of “United Rotary Brush, United Pro 
Strip Brooms”, for the Street & Alley Division (Revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (revenue to the City in the amount of $510.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -14-19 for furnishing one new ¾ ton crew cab full size pick -up 
truck (command vehicle), one new extended cab mid-sized pick-up truck (support truck), and two 
new four -door utility Police Interceptors (staff vehicles) for the Cheyenne Fire & Rescue 
Department (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid # S-10-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Kaiser 
Corporation d/b/a Kaiser Flooring, Cheyenne, Wyoming for the Municipal Building 2 nd Floor 
Carpet Replacement Project (Capitol Impro vement Plan (CIP) funding) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-16-19 for the surplus sale of traffic controllers and traffic control 
cabinets for the Traffic Division (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses and permits (retail, restaurant, 
limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses and microbrewery , satellite distillery and special malt 
beverage permits) filed with the City Clerk’s office.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Appointment of Robin L. Lockman as City Treasurer for the City of Cheyenne. Mr. Luna 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointments).  Mayor 
Orr expressed appreciation to Ms. Lockman. 
 
 Appointment of Kimberly Skoutary-Johnson to the Laramie County Community Juvenile 
Services Joint Powers Board and Kevin Yarbrough to the Mayor’s Council  for People with 
Disabilities.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral 
appointments). 
 
Under other business: 
 
 Donn Edmunds commented on the plans for U .S. Highway 30 and Christensen Road 
project. 
 
 Jeff Dierksen voiced concern relating to failure of the resolution related to a drainage study 
in Thomas Heights and requested consideration to continue working on a possible solution.  Mayor 
Orr advised further discussions can be held related to the concern.   
 
 Amy Allen, City Engineer, reported on information provided to members of the governing 
body related to the 26th Street Interceptor Project as previously requested, and advised the RFP for 
a consultant for the project is moving forward.  Mayor Orr provided information on presentation 
of the project to the State Loan and Investment Board, noting the grant is awarded as 
reimbursement.  Support was expressed for the project. 
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 9:12 p.m.        
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
  
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 21, 2019 
 