MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-03-25 | CLIP_ID: 705 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 705

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 25, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The 
pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Case and Mr. Roybal, Agenda Item #16 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon 
request by Mr. Case, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor, Agenda Item 
#24 (a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Case moved to approve remaining Consent 
Agenda items , seconded by Mr.  Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 11, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meetings of the Governing Body on March 12, March 14, March 16 
and March 19, 2019.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Case moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by Mr. White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, all of Lots 
6 and 7, Block 1, and all that 16’ alley located in Block 1, Countryside Addition, Laramie, County, 
Wyoming, (located southwest of the intersection of Countryside Avenue and Whitney Road) .  
Reporting f or Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning District Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultural Residential 
to CB Community Business for all of Lots 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, and 8, Block 1 and all  of Lots 2, 3, and 4, 
Block 2, Countryside Addition, Laramie County Wyoming, (located south of Countryside Avenue, 
west of Whitney Road).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
  
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, all of FW 
Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming ( located northeast of the intersection of College Drive 
and Southwest Drive) .  Dr. Kay Sheehan  commented on annexation requirements and spoke in 
opposition stating the annexation does not benefit  nearby property owners ’ health, safety and 
welfare due to increased traffic and potential decrease of property value.  Glenn Connor thanked 
Planning and Development staff for clarifying developer reimbursement  fees and stated concern 
with flooding in the annexation area .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. Shanor.  Upon inquiry, Gene McDonald, agent for the applicant, provided information on 
an existing retention pond that will be doubled in size and explained it is proposed the land will be 
replatted into seven lots with one designated for drainage.  He advised the land won’t be developed 
for several years, but it must be annexed first which will include Broken Arrow Rd.  Mr. McDonald 
further explained there will be 50 ft. of public right -of-way.  Mr. McDonald stated annexation of 
all land  is proposed , not just the land  that Arby’s occupies. Comments were made r egarding 
drainage concerns in the area.  Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development  Department, provided 
information on county land sub-division requirements upon inquiry, and advised it is not 
recommended due to the land being located partially in the city and county which can be 
problematic.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Mr. Case voting “no”. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning District Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County CB Community Business to 
CB Community Business for all of FW Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast 
of the intersection of College Drive and Southwest Drive).  Dr. Rinne announced the applicant has 
requested the zone change application be withdrawn.  Hearing no objections, Mayor Orr advised 
the item has been withdrawn. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning District Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 
5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Unified Development Code, amending the 
zoning classification for a portion of the southeast quarter of Section 11 and the northeast quarter 
of  Section 14 in Township 13 North, Range 67 West from the Overland Trails Planned Unit 
Development (PUD) to the CFD Park -N-Ride PUD for the 27.69-acre Lot 1 of the CFD Park -N-
Ride Subdivision in the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of Southwest 
Drive, north of College Drive, and adjacent to I-25).  Glenn Connor expressed interest in assistance 
with the project as a nearby property owner .  Donn Edmunds commented on road conditions in 
the area and expressed concern related to the proposed Park-N-Ride location. Brad Emmons, AVI, 
agent for applicant, provided information on the Park -N-Ride operational scenario during CFD  
stating volunteers will be at  the south entrance where all  traffic will be funneled  and advised a 
temporary traffic signal will be located at Southwest Drive and College.  Comments were made 
regarding traffic barrels and placement during the event. Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated March 19, 2019, 
seconded by Mr. Case. Dr. Rinne explained the substitute provides clerical revisions, noting no 
substantial changes were made.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes ” – all members of the 
  
governing body.  Further comments included road improvement suggestions in the area and land 
being donated for the project by adjacent land owners.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapters 5.48, Detective, Patrol and Guard 
Service Businesses, 5.52, Massage Establishments, and 5.72, Public Transportation, within Title 
5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, provided information on the amendment stating  although 
finger printing services will no longer be administered to business license applicants , local 
background and national warrants checks will still be conducted.  He stated there has not been any 
license application denials based on fingerprint ing results alone in the last several years . Chief 
Kozak explained individual detective guards will no longer be  required to obtain a license.  This 
process change will streamline the application process allowing applicants to start employment 
sooner. Donn Edmunds voiced opposition and provided background information on the Detective, 
Patrol and Guard business and individual application process.   Dr. Rinne moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 10.56, Handicapped Parking Spaces, 
within Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic,  of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing all revenue from Contract No. 5902 to be earmarked to plan, 
build and maintain recreation facilities at the Belvoir Ranch.  Caroline Esch, Cheyenne Mountain 
Bike Club and high  school Mountain Bike Team coach , commented on utilization of revenue 
funds, lease language that states lessee and owner should cooperate on how the land will be used  
and committees that determined appropriate placement of the turbines.  Cari Cuffney commented 
on utilization of revenue and City Department reimbursements. Reporting for Finance Committee, 
Mr. White advised there is no recommendation on the item. Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded 
by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Roybal explained the last postponement didn’t allow for a work session and 
requested an additional postponement. Discussion topics included: interest in postponing the item, 
difficulty in scheduling a work session prior to the next Finance Committee meeting, desire for 
multiple work sessions, funding analysis to determine utilization of revenue, placement of turbines, 
and conservation easement.  Mayor Orr stated NextEra Energy agreed to removing turbine #8 but 
are hesitant to remove others as it would put them below production capacity for the project.  
Discussion continued relating to updating the masterplan and trails on the land including potential 
amenities and additional work sessions.  Mayor Orr advised upcoming budget planning sessions 
can provide for additional discussions regarding contract revenue.  Mr. Roybal moved to postpone 
to April 8, 2019 , seconded by Mr. Cook.   Motion to postpone failed .  Voting “yes” – Mr. Case, 
Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  Voting “no” - Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Luna, 
Mayor Orr,  Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor .  Discussion continued on bringing the resolution  in a 
revised form back before the governing body  after budget discussions and funding analys es are 
complete.  Main motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn and M r. 
Roybal.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Luna, Mayor Orr, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White. 
 
  
 RESOLUTION – Naming the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens Grand Conservatory the Shane 
Smith Grand Conservatory.  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Members of the 
Governing Body expressed their appreciation to Mr. Smith and his contributions to the community 
and to the Botanic Gardens program .  Concern was expressed that the City does not have any 
criteria in place for naming buildings after individuals.  Mayor Orr commented on the importance 
of these types of resolutions. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#5982) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Providing for the budgeting of excess 1% Specific Purpose Sales and 
Use Taxes collected for the August 21, 2012 voter-approved specific purposes.  Mr. White reported 
the motion to adopt failed at the Finance Committee, therefore, there is no recommendation on the 
item. Mr. Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Case. Mr. Shanor stated the primary purpose of 
the resolution is to provide transparency for the approximately $3.2 million in remaining overage 
funding from the 2012 1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax .  He explained the resolution 
determines the funding will be used for projects that were on the ballot  and further advised the 
governing body would  determine how to allocate the excess funding during the budget process.  
Comments were made on the importance of the integrity of the election and utilizing excess 
funding for projects the funding was intended for.  Mr. Shanor noted the resolution sets for th 
requirements of fund distribution for maintenance and operations for related 2012 voter approved 
projects.  Discussion topics included: statutory requirements relating to use of specific purpose tax 
funding, recent legislation amending the statute on spending requirements and limitations relating 
to voter approved sales tax funding , concerns regarding proposed resolution language being  
restrictive, general support for the resolution, previous 1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax 
project funding overages, operations and maintenance costs  and the 17th Street Lighting project.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes”  - all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, and Mr. Roybal voting “no”.  (#5983) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the Wyoming Retirement System Deferred Compensation Plan 
for the benefit of full -time employees of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and allowing for 
automatic enrollment of new full-time employees – referred to Finance committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Case) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 
CFD Park-N-Ride Subdivision for a portion of the southeast quarter of Section 11 and the northeast 
quarter of Section 14, Township 13 North, Range 67 West, situated in Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located east of I -25, west of Southwest Drive, south of Swan Ranch Road, and north 
of College Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to enter int o a Memorandum of Understanding 
with the Governing Bodies of other local governments that are affected by the proposed 
Roundhouse Wind Energy Project at the Belvoir Ranch pursuant to the Wyoming Department of 
Environmental Quality Industrial Siting Regulations – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. White) 
 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Proclaiming the two -block radius around the City’s east parking lot at 
17th Street and Warren Avenue as Cheyenne’s Downtown Restaurant District – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
 Preliminary Plat for US 30 Business Plaza, Second Filing, a replat of Lots 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 
and 8, Block 1 and all of Lots 2, 3, and 4, Block 2, and all of Tim Tam Street, and all of that 16’ 
alley located in Block 1, Countryside Addition, together with Lots 7, 8, a nd 9, Block 1, US 30 
Business Plaza, Cheyenne, Laramie County Wyoming, (located south of  and adjacent to 
Countryside Avenue , west of Whitney Road) .  Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development  
Department, reported the applicant provided information on an option of fulfilling condition #1 at 
the last Public Services Committee  meeting.  Mr. Lloyd expressed concern for proposed staff 
condition language as provisions  aren’t included for  utilities and requested consideration to 
approve the original proposed staff condition #1.  Anissa Gerard, City Traffic Engineer, reported 
engineering staff supports original verbiage for condition #1, supports reserving land as right-of-
way near Tim Tam street, and advised the revised language  amendment doesn’t allow authority 
for access on property to the south as it is redeveloped in the future.  John Sa yers, agent for the 
owner, requested vacation of Tim Tam Street noting if the original staff condition #1 is approved, 
future land development may be difficult. Dr. Rinne moved to approve with staff conditions #1 & 
2, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend staff condition #1 to read  “Should 
necessary access to the unplatted land south of US 30 Business Plaza Second Filing need 
ingress/egress access through Lot 1, Block 1, the property owners will work together to determine 
the location and prepare a Memorandum of Understanding to include easement and maintenance”, 
seconded Mr. Roybal.  Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes”  - all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Main motion as amended carried. Voting “yes” 
- all members of the governing body. 
 
 Preliminary PUD for Harmony Valley, a portion of the S½ of Section 7 and the SE¼NE¼ 
of Section 7, T.13N., R.66W., 6 th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of 
and adjacent to W. College Drive, west of Walterscheid Boulevard) .   Kelly Hafner, CivilWorx, 
LLC, agent for owner, provided information on the  project including topography, involvement 
with the City and Plan Cheyenne and public input received from the public and the governing 
body. Mr. Hafner explained many zoning aspects are e ncompassed in the project with the 
preliminary PUD which allows flexibility for parks, open space and trails planning. He voiced 
concerns relating to  staff and Planning Commission  conditions F-Greenway width, G-attached 
sidewalks, and I-street tree planting exceptions.   Dillon Ohrt, representing residents of Harmony 
Hills, read a letter into the record related to concerns with certain elements of the development  
including the following:  impact contribut ing to potential diminished property value, drainage 
issues, proposed greenway location, increased traffic and population in the area , plans for 
intersections and population influxes in area schools.  James O’Brien voiced concerns relating to 
drainage, parking and obstruction of current  views. Mr. O’Brien  requested project development 
height restrictions and provided pictures of recent flooding in the area.  Mr. Hafner acknowledged 
drainage issue concerns  and advised they are looking into project elements to address draining.  
Information was provided on traffic and drainage studies, future placement of traffic signals and 
Laramie County School District #1 determin ing the need for additional schools.   Mr. O hrt 
requested consideration in preserving  existing view sheds . Dr. Rinne reported there was no 
  
recommendation on the item  from the Public Services Committ ee. Dr. Rinne  moved to 
acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal. 
Discussion included: conditions F-Greenway width, G-attached sidewalks, and I-street tree 
planting exceptions and tree and greenway requirements in the area .  Mr. Lloyd reported staff 
recommends approval with conditions A-J and suggested an amendment to condition A. Dr. Rinne 
moved to amend to include conditions A-J, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend 
condition A by amending Section 1.K.2 to satisfaction of the Engineering Department by deleting 
the text in quotations, seconded by Mr. Shanor. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the 
governing body .  Motion to amend as amended carried. Voting “yes”  - all members of the 
governing body.   Main motion  as twice amended carried. Voting “ye s” - all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between  the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for the 
housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services Center located at the Archer 
Complex.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6967) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie Cou nty Sheriff’s Department and 
Laramie County for housing City Prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6968) 
 
 Lease agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Country Club for 
continued use of the premises located on Stinner Road for a period of 100 years .  Mayor Orr, Dr. 
Rinne and Mr. Cook recused themselves from discussion and voting  (Cheyenne Country Club 
membership affiliation) and vacated council chambers. Mayor Orr relinquished duties of the chair 
to President  Case.  Bill Hibler,  attorney representing  Cheyenne Country Club, provided 
information on the  lease history noting there have been  many amendments over the years.   He 
advised he collaborated  with the City A ttorney’s office to revise the contract  and they envision 
long term  capital improvements for the community.  Upon inquiry , Mr. Hibler provided 
information on club memberships and facility utilization options for members and non -members.  
Tawn Tempel, Cheyenne Country Club Board, provided information on taxes and utilities paid  
and events hosted at the facility , noting funding has been contributed to a walking path that is 
utilized by WYDOT employees.  Brian Pedersen expanded on events hosted by the club .  Mr. 
White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of 
the governing body.  Following announcement of the vote, Mayor Orr, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Cook 
returned to council chambers. (#6969) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Goat Green, LLC, Wellington, Colorado, for 
vegetation management along Dry Creek and Crow Creek (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 6660 between the City of Cheyenne and WYCO 
Recycling LLC for recycling services to increase the tipping fee for recyclables, monthly minimum 
payment, and annu al not -to-exceed cost (Solid Waste fund).   Vicki Nemecek,  Public Works 
Director, advised the modification is in response to the current local , national and international 
recycling crisis .  She provided information involving recycling co ntamination rates, WYCO’s 
operational status and the City’s desire to continue to provide recycling services to the community. 
  
Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek provided information on the potential for additional limitations being 
placed on accepted  recyclable items, marketable recyclable items and explained the use of  an 
incinerator would not be an economical option.  Brian Heuer, WYCO Recycling LLC, provided 
recycling information regarding single stream recycling products and explained upon inquiry, that 
glass isn’t accepted due to cost restraints.  Mr. White moved to approve , seconded by Mr. Case.   
Ms. Nemecek explained a proposed 5% increase to the sanitation fee schedule which will cover 
increased WYCO fees.    Comments were made  related to public awareness regarding recycling 
requirements and recycling contamination in the community.  Ms. Nemecek provided the contract 
expiration date upon inquiry.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Mr. Cook and Mr. Luna voting “no”. (#6660) 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract  #6785 between the City of Cheyenne and HDR 
Engineering Inc. for additional construction management services for the Christensen Road 
Overpass Project (6th Penny Sales Tax).  Wes Bay, Deputy City Engineer, requested the contract 
modification not be approved to allow for revisions to the construction management portion of the 
contract.  Mr. White advised the motion to approve failed at the Finance Committee and there is 
no recommendation on the item.  The item died due to lack of a motion. 
 
[CA] Amendment to Contract #6905 between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 for school resource officers for the 2018-
2019 school year and summer school 2019.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6905) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -14-19 for furnishing one new ¾ ton crew cab full size pick -up 
truck (command vehicle), one new extended cab mid-sized pick-up truck (support truck), and two 
new four -door utility Police Interceptors (staff vehicles) for the Cheyenne Fire & Rescue 
Department (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( accept bid 
submitted by Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, WY, in an amount not to exceed $193,518.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # S-10-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Kaiser 
Corporation d/b/a Kaiser Flooring, Cheyenne, Wyoming for the Municipal Building 2 nd Floor 
Carpet Replacement Project (Capitol Imp rovement Plan (CIP) funding) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (accept bid submitted by Kaiser Corporation, d/b/a  Kaiser Flooring, Cheyenne, 
WY, in an amount not to exceed $89,252.00). (#6970) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-16-19 for the surplus sale of traffic controllers and traffic control 
cabinets for the Traffic Division (Revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accept 
bid submitted by the City of Lexington, NC, in the amount of $3,000.00 revenue to City).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-15-19 for furnishing 95 gallon and 65 gallon automated refuse 
carts for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # S-11-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, and Simon 
Contractors, C heyenne, Wyoming, for the Smalley Park Greenway Reconstruction Project 
(Greenway Maintenance fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-12-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, and Reiman 
Corp., Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Evers Boulevard Reconstruction Project (2015-2018 1% Sales 
Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-14-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, and American 
Contracting of Wyoming LLC, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Jr. Leag ue Dugout Roof 
Replacements and Masonry Repairs Project (Reserves carryover) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Appointments Robert Korber to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint 
Powers Board, Scott Homar to the Fire Civil Service Commission, James Johnson to the Building 
Code Board of Appeals and Lee Filer to the Personnel Commission. Mr. Roybal moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointments).   
 
Under other business: 
 
 Mr. White expressed appreciation to first responders and snow removal crews who 
provided assistance during the recent  snow storm and crews who are working to repair potholes 
due to the storm.  Mayor Orr commented on a recognition ceremony held in honor of a citizen who 
provided assistance during the storm.   
 
Mr. Laybourn complemented parties involved in the  recent Collective Labor Bargaining 
process.   
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:44 p.m.        
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 4, 2019 
 