MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-04-22 | CLIP_ID: 708 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 708

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 22, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor  and Jeff White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The 
pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Councilman White recognized members of C ub Scout Pack #124 and Boy Scout Troup 
#102 who were present to observe government in action. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Luna and Mr. Case, Agenda Item # 13 was removed from the Consent Agenda . Mr. Shanor 
declared a conflict of interest (business affiliation with agenda item #11) and vacated council 
chambers.  Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. Case.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Following announcement of 
the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council chambers. 
 
[CA] Minutes from  Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 8 , 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by Mr. White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a public hearing for the City of Cheyenne’s Annual Action Plan Fiscal 
Year 2019 prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office.  Deanne 
Widauf, Housing and Community Development, provided a brief overview of the history and 
purpose of the Community Development Block Grant program , noting the proposed plan is 
consistent with the 5 -year Comprehensive Consolidated Plan  developed in 2015, and stated the 
anticipated allocation funding amount is $433,947.00 .  Ms. Widauf explained the Tier system 
being utilized and reviewed information on the grant application process; public notifications and 
opportunities for input; role of the Advisory Council in reviewing and recommending projects to 
be funded  and explained the projects that are being proposed.  She explained Housing & 
Community Development is anticipating $85,000.00 in recaptured funding.  There being no further 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapter 10.56, Handicapped Parking Spaces, 
within Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming . 
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governin g body.  
(#4269) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee 
Schedule – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County CB Community Business to 
CB Community Business for all of FW Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast 
of the intersection of College Drive and Southwest Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne supports 
the application of the Town of Burns to be su bmitted to the State Loan and Investment Board by 
the Board of Commissioners of Laramie County for 2015 -2016 Countywide Consensus Block 
Grant funds in the amount of $18,739.00 to replace the Community Center roof -top heating and 
air conditioning unit.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5988) 
 
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Christensen Park, situated in a portion of the SW¼ NE¼, Section 36, Township 14 North, Range 
67 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the 
southwest corner of Talbot Court and Cribbon Avenue) . Dr. Rinne moved to a dopt, seconded by 
Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne explained there were two conditions recommended that include: Provide 
required proof of ownership and provide a written access agreement with the City.  Dr. Rinne 
moved to postpone  to May 13, 2019,  seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Support for postponement was 
voiced by members of the governing body and it was expressed that there is an administrative need 
to fulfill n ecessary requirements, such as property ownership, prior to seeking governing body  
approval.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
 RESOLUTION – Calling for an ADA Compliance Evaluation and Transition Plan for the 
City of Cheyenne Municipal Building .  Patti Riesland, Mayor’s Council for People with 
Disabilities, spoke in favor of the resolution.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved 
to adopt, seconded by Laybourn.  Upon inquiry regarding funding, Eric Fountain, Chief of Staff, 
advised current ly a funding source has not been identified and reported the purpose of the 
resolution is to identify ADA shortcomings and develop a compliance plan for the future.  He 
explained this approach has been taken with certain Community Recreation and Events facilities, 
the Municipal Court and the Public Safety Center currently meet ADA compliance requirements, 
total cost for ADA updates has not yet been established and the City has not been contacted by the 
Department of Justice ( DOJ) as of yet.  Mr. Fountain added that a timeline hasn’t been clearly 
defined and that once a complaint is received by the DOJ an analysis will be initiated regarding 
federal requirements which will require a compliance timeline.  Concern was expressed related to 
  
status of Municipal Building ADA compliance including existing barriers involving access for 
people with disabilities.  It was suggested the Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax be considered 
as a funding source.  Further discussion included current compliance process being com plaint 
driven, funding source options and  deficiencies in the building including  the HVAC system and 
modern infrastructure issues. Support was voiced relating to the resolution concept and a proactive 
approach to meet compliance.  Mr. Shanor moved to lay the main motion on the table, seconded 
by Mr. Case.  Mr. Laybourn raised a point of order related to the motion and process requesting 
clarification.  Mayor Orr advised 5 th Penny Sales Tax is referred to as a capital improvement tax 
in city code.  Ales sandra McCoy Fakelman , Assistant City Attorney,  upon inquiry, explained a 
motion to lay on the table is an acceptable and proper motion according to Robert’s Rules of Order.  
It was advised the motion is not debatable or amendable.  Motion to lay on the ta ble failed (tie 
vote).  Voting “yes” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.  Voting “no” – 
Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mayor Orr, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.   Mr. Fountain provided 
information on the following upon inquiry: it is his under standing ADA grants have been 
unsuccessful in the past and there ha ve not been any recent applications submitted , compliance 
efforts could be addressed one issue at a time,  funding needs would be identified once the study 
has been completed and noted the rule of thumb is compliance updates cost 10% of the price of a 
building remodel.  Jason Sanchez, Community Recreation and Events Deputy Director, reported a 
2012 analysis was conducted in an effort to be proactive and identify areas of non-compliance for 
Community Recreation and Events facilities. He explained the method of addressing the non -
compliant areas, stating corrections are made annually in conjunction with other improvements in 
an on-going effort to become closer to being compliant. Upon inquiry, Mr. Sanchez advised cost 
estimates are done as each improvement is addressed . Comments were made related to  
understanding federal requirements and timeframes, the need for addressing federal requirements, 
fiscal responsibilities and a proactive approach.  Vicki Nemecek , Director of Public Works , 
explained upon inquiry, that previous attempts to acquire Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax (6th 
Penny) funding were unsuccessful regarding renovation of the Municipal Building during the last 
two 6th Penny ballots.  Motion failed (tie vote).  Voting “yes” – Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, 
Mayor Orr, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne 
and Mr. Shanor.  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plan 2019 prepared by 
the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application to the Wyoming Business 
Council, Business Ready Community Program, for a $1,500,000.00 Community Readiness Grant 
for the Happy Jack Road/F.E. Warren Air Force Base Enhanced Use Lease Infrastructure Project 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Preliminary Plat for Harmony Valley, 1st Filing, a plat of a portion of the S½ of Section 7 
and the SE¼NE¼ of Section 7, T.13N., R.66W., 6 th P.M., Cheyenne Laramie County, Wyoming 
(located north of and adjacent to W. College Dr., west of Walterscheid Blvd.) .  Holli Welch, 
Woodhouse, Rod en and Nethercott  LLC, represent ing an  adjacent landowner, advised area 
landowners have concerns relating to access, noting  access has been changed once prior  to the 
  
proposed development and advised the development shouldn’t be problematic as long as access 
doesn’t change.  Kelly Hafner, CivilWorx, LLC, agent for the applicant, reported development 
plans include maintaining rights-of-way and granting access easements on current property on the 
final plat .  Dr. Rinne moved to acknowledge the Planning C ommission’s recommendation to 
approve with staff conditions #1-14, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Goat Green, LLC, Wellington, Colorado, for 
vegetation management along Dry Creek and Crow Creek (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (in the amount of $100,000.00). (#6980) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Plan One / Architects, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for City Municipality Re -Roofing Services for the Aquatic Center, Fleet 
Maintenance Facility and Parks Maintenance Shop (Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) funding) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $50,155.00). (#6981) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc., for the use of city-owned land and buildings for parking, camping, and other activities 
during the 2019 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration .  Motion (per Consent  Agenda) carried.   
(#6982) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne Police Department and the 
Laramie County Sheriff’s Department for EOD, SWAT and CNU Operations and law enforcement 
extraterritorial assistance and activities.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6983) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Josh Cossitt to provide tennis services and 
instruction at City-owned tennis facilities (revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understan ding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District #1 to provide transportation services for the Recreation Division Summer Rec 
Camp Program – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract No. 6932 between the City of Cheyenne and Asbestos 
& Technical Services , Cheyenne, Wyoming, for asbestos abatement services for 2247 East 19 th 
Street (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to 
exceed $3,200.00). (#6932) 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6837 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental for group 
dental benefits for City employees – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6924 between the City of Cheyenne  and TC 
Solutions, LLC, Cheyenne, WY, for Owner’s Representative Services for the New Municipal 
Court (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
 [CA] Consideration of Bid #E-19-19 for furnishing bituminous asphalt hot mix, tack oil and cold 
mix on an annual basis (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accept bid from JTL Group Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, WY, in an amount not to exceed 
$284,265.00).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase two Lifepak defibrillator devices for the Cheyenne Fire and 
Rescue Department (General fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Appointments of Brandon VanTassell to the Fire Code Board of Appeals and Eric Prior to 
the Housing and Co mmunity Development Advisory Council .  Mr. Luna moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
Reappointment of Nicholas A. Zahner to the International Fire Code Board of Appeals .  
Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral 
appointments). 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 13, 2019, at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to receive public comment 
regarding the intent of the City of Cheyenne to submit an application for funding to the Wyoming 
Business Council’s Business Ready Community, Community Readiness Grant Program, to assist 
in funding the F.E. Warren Enhanced Use Lease Infrastructure Project. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 13, 2019, at 6:0 0 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a social club liquor 
license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Mary Godfrey Playhouse, 2706 E. 
Pershing Blvd., Cheyenne, WY. 
  
Announcement was made of a Public He aring to be held May 13, 2019, at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a restaurant liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Adeli, LLC d/b/a Railyard Café – Coffee Haus & 
Eatery, 1620 E. Pershing Blvd., Cheyenne, WY. 
 
Under other business: 
 
Rocky Bolin, Knights of Pythia s Lodge, provided Lodge formation and location history 
which is located near the property of the new Municipal Courthouse project.  He expressed concern 
related to losing access to their kitchen windows which are on the east side of the building during 
construction of the project and provided information regarding contact he has had with the project 
architect and manager.  Ben Hornak, TC Solutions, Project Manager, expressed appreciation to the 
Knight’s of Pythias for their accommodation  during the project and reported there are fire codes 
relating to separation between the two buildings that will need to be complied with . A ruling will 
be requested from the City Building Official regarding what is required for a fire separation wall.  
  
Comments were made related to assisting in other ways to provide natural lighting in the building 
that houses the Lodge. 
 
Joe Ramirez, Chair of Wyoming Alliance Non-Partisan Group, provided a report related 
to community relations and law enforcement.  Mr. Ramirez asked for feedback from the Governing 
Body and advised the group has worked with Police Chief Brian Kozak. 
 
Jeff Geyer, Laramie County Conservation District, and Dena Egen hoff, BOPU , g ave a 
presentation on the Crow Creek Revival  stream restoration project  stating the purpose is  to 
promote, enhance, restore and revitalize the ecological values and functions of Crow Creek.   The 
presentation included information on: Creek history and patte rn, realignment of Crow Creek, 
details of project phases  and goals , project funding  and grants received , importance of public 
access and water quality and current and prior master plans. Ms. Egenhoff stated a community 
Crow Creek clean-up day is scheduled for May 11, 2019.  Further information was provided related 
to Crow Creek history, a 1993 master plan and how the project is related to an enhanced use lease 
resolution and public hearing that will be held on May 1 3, 2019. Support for the project was  
expressed and comments were made  related to  the relationship between Crow Creek and the 
Greenway system. It was noted that a Memorandum of Understanding was approved two years 
ago related to the project. 
 
John Moore, Wyoming Goat Farm , provided informatio n relating to his company and 
desire to be considered for the  goat grazing services contract which was approved earlier on the 
agenda.   Amy Allen, City Engineer,  advised the contract was awarded as a sole source project 
with all advertising requirements having been met. There was an option to discuss the contract at 
the Finance Committee meeting held on April 15, 2019.  Ms. Allen explained the contract will be 
reviewed again next year.  
 
Mr. Esquibel noted that at the April 8, 2019 City Council meeting, th e motion to approve 
Resolution #5987 proclaiming the two-block radius around the City’s east parking lot at 17th Street 
and Warren Avenue as Cheyenne’s Downtown Restaurant District  was adopted.  Mr. Esquibel, 
advising he had voted on the prevailing side , and pursuant to City Code Chapter 2.04, moved to 
reconsider the vote taken on the  motion, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Esquibel explained 
following adoption of the resolution,  the need to address city -wide curb and gutter concerns and 
funding options were discussed.  Motion to reconsider carried. Voting “yes” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, 
Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.  Voting “no” – Mr. Laybourn, Mayor Orr, Mr. 
Roybal and Mr. White.  Comments were made in support of addressing city-wide curb and gutter 
repairs, looking into funding mechanisms for such and how the resolution only pertains to a 
specific area of town.   Amy Allen, City Engineer , advised the 1% Construction Department is 
reviewing community curb and gutter  concerns and working on a proactive approach for 
addressing them.   Further comments were made in support of the original resolution as the 
intention is to establish a downtown restaurant district and bringing forth resolutions for additional 
restaurant districts.  Motion failed. Voting “yes” – Mr. Laybourn, Mayor Orr, Mr. Roybal and Mr. 
White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.   
 
  
Mayor Orr provided information on  the Cheyenne Day of Giving to be held on May 10, 
2019 and the Civic Center Commons ribbon cutting ceremony and Cheyenne Day of Service to be 
held on May 11, 2019 at 9:00 a.m. 
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:38 p.m.        
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  May 2, 2019 
 