MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-05-13 | CLIP_ID: 709 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 709

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 13, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor  and Jeff White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The 
pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. White, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Cook and Mr. Roybal, Agenda Item #15 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve  remaining Consent Agenda items , seconded by Mr . Luna .  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 22, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by  Mr. Shanor.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to receive public comment regarding the intent of the 
City of Cheyenne to submit an application for funding to the Wyoming Business Council’s 
Business Ready Community, Community Readiness Grant Program, to assist in funding the F.E. 
Warren Enhanced Use Lease Infrastructure Project.  Cindy Schneider, Grants Manager, provided 
grant application process information stating a public hearing and resolution are requirements of 
the grant.  Ms. Schneider advised the City was awarded  a grant and loan last year related to the 
same project and that a dditional infrastructure is needed.  There being no further comments or 
input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a  public hearing for an application for a social club liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Mary Godfrey Playhouse, 2706 E. Pershing Blvd., 
Cheyenne, WY.  Brenda Lyttle , C heyenne Little Theatre Players Board of Directors , provided 
information on the application and establishment and stated the Atlas Theater has had a social club 
liquor license since 2014 . She explained minimal alcoholic beverages would be available for 
purchase at certain shows.   Upon inquiry, Ms. Lyttle explained all bartenders will receive TIPS 
training, alcohol sales will not take place  during school hours due t o the proximity of East High 
School and that alcohol will be locked up when not for sale .  John Lyttle added information 
regarding the type of alcohol consumption that typically occurs du ring theater productions and 
  
explained the Mary Godfrey Playhouse has a positive working relationship with East High School.    
There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr 
closed the hearing. 
 
Mayor Orr op ened a  public hearing for an application for a restaurant liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Adeli, LLC d/b/a Railyard Café – Coffee Haus & 
Eatery, 1620 E. Pershing Blvd., Cheyenne, WY.   Freddy Flores-Salieb, Railyard Café – Coffee 
Haus & Eatery, advised she was available for questions.  There being no further comments or input 
and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee 
Schedule. Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, provided information related to an in-house 
cost accounting analysis and fee increase needs. She explained commercial and contractor loads 
will now be charged by weight, cost of recyclable material has been increased and there is now a 
standardized scattered trash collection fee.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek advised last year was the 
fourth year in a series of consultant recommended increases and has been 5% even though an 8% 
increase for 5 years was recommended in order to meet landfill maintenance needs.  She explained 
a 5% rate increase is sufficient due to a vertical landfill expansion and there being time to collect 
funds for a new expansion in the future.  Ms. Nemecek provided information on Note 2 on the fee 
schedule, upon inquiry, explaining it is related to strip malls or buildings with multiple businesses 
that share a waste container.  Fees are based on volume and frequency of pickup, and the basic rate 
fee is shared by all participating businesses. Ms. Nemecek provided further information related to 
cost savings seen by not taking trash to Ault, CO, stating savings are being used for fuel, equipment 
maintenance, employee overtime if necessary, litter fences and potentially m ore employees.   
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend fee schedule Note 2, sentence 2 to read “Buildings will 
be assessed based on the type and quantity of containe rs and frequency of pickups as outlined in 
this Solid Waste Fee Schedule, and by deleting the third and  following sentence starting with 
“Multiple collocated…”, s econded by Mr. Case. Mr. Shanor  provided information on prior fee 
schedules stating customers weren’t charged for the service, but rather arbitrary metrics such as 
how many trash receptacles were located at a building. That method of billing was updated to 
charge based on size and frequency of pickups.  The amendment will be revenue neutral and the  
fee schedule will be adjusted to be consistent with the proposed amendment.  Ms. Nemecek further 
explained Note 2 stating it applies to businesses like the refinery that have multiple receptacles in 
various locations with multiple pickups.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Mr. Shanor voting “yes”.  Main motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna 
and Mr. Shanor voting “no”.  
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County  CB Community Business to 
CB Community Business for all of FW Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast 
of the intersection of College Drive and Southwest Drive) .  Reporting for Public Services 
  
Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2019 and ending June 30, 2020 – referred 
to Committee of the Whole. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendm ents, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 5.6.2 
PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Unified Development Code, changing the 
zoning classification from CB Community Business and County A -1 Ag ricultural and Rural 
Residential to Harmony Valley Planned Unit Development for portions of the S1/2 of Section 7 
and the S1/2 of the NE1/4 of Section 7, Township 13 North, Range 66 West, of the 6th P.M., City 
of Cheyenne Laramie County, Wyoming (as described in Exhibit A and generally located northeast 
of the intersection of West College Drive and Parsley Boulevard – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Christensen Park, situated in a portion of the SW¼ NE¼, Section 36, Township 14 North, Range 
67 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the 
southwest corner of Talbot Court and Cribbon Avenue)  (Postponed from 04 -22-19).  Dr. Rinne 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Case.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to May 28, 2019, seconded 
by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plan 2019 prepared by 
the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#5989) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application to the Wyoming Business 
Council, Business Ready Community Program, for a $1,500,000.00 Community Readiness Grant 
for the Happy Jack Road/F.E. Warren Air Force Base Enhanced Use Lease Infrastructure Project.  
Mr. White moved to adopt,  seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. Shanor abstained  from discussion and 
voting due to business affiliation with the Wyoming State Loan and Investment Board and vacated 
Council chambers. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
Following announcement of the vote, Mr. Shanor returned to Council chambers.  (#5990) 
 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – For Governing Body approval of a three -year Bronze Boot Sponsor 
relationship between Cheyenne Frontier Days and Miller/Coors for 2019 -2021 – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department 
of Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Program Grant to provide the local 
match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit Program, as au thorized by 49 
U.S.C. § 5311 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for US 30 
Business Plaza, Second Filing, a replat of Lots 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8, Block 1 and all of Lots 2, 3, and 
4, Block 2, and all of Tim Tam Street, and all of the 16’ alley located in Block 1, Countryside 
Addition, together with Lots 7, 8 and 9, Block One, US 30 Business Plaza, City of Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the intersection of Countryside Avenue and 
Whitney Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for FW 
Subdivision, 2 nd Filing, a replat of all of Lot 1, Block 1, FW Subdivision, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of College Drive and Southwest Drive) – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign an Access Easement 
for Texas Roadhouse of Cheyenne, LLC to build and maintain a vehicular and pedestrian bridge 
on and over a City drainage channel for the purpose of accessing an accessory parking lot located 
at the south east corner of Edgewater Avenue and Bluegrass Circle – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Josh Cossitt  to provide tennis services and 
instruction at City-owned tennis facilities (revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(revenue in the amount of $600.00). (#6995) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie Count y 
School District #1 to provide transportation services for the Recreation Division Summer Rec 
Camp Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6996) 
 
CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Downtown 
Development Authority – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization, and Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc., Denver, CO, for the PlanCheyenne 
update: 2019-2045 (MPO Federal funding) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Department of the Air Force license to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to use property 
located on F.E. Warren Air Force Base, Wyoming, for a parking lot to be used by patrons attending 
the 2019 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for land 
owned by the United States Department of the Airforce located at F.E. Warren Air Force Base to 
be used and operated as a parking lot for public transportation services during the 2019 Cheyenne 
Frontier Days celebration – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses 
owned by the Laramie County Sc hool District Number One to be used and operated for public 
transportation services during the 2019 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Frontier Days, 
Inc. and Laramie County School District Number One, for buses owned by the Laramie County 
School District Number One to be used and operated for public transportation services during the 
2019 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Cable Franchise Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Spectrum 
Pacific West, LLC l/k/a Charter Communications – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, City of Cheyenne Board 
of Public Utilities and McGee, Hearne and Paiz, LLC, Cheyenne, to audit the annual financial 
statements of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming (General fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6837 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental for group 
dental benefits for City employees.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6837)  
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6924 between the City of  Cheyenne and TC 
Solutions, LLC, Cheyenne, WY, for Owner’s Representative Services for the New Municipal 
Court (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( amount not to 
exceed $50,000.00). (#6924) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 2 to use agreement, Contract No. 5963 between the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming and Level 3 Communications, LLC, Broomfield, CO, for limited use of the 
public right-of-way for the installation of fiber optic communications systems and setting a fee for 
that use – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6481 for Surface Transportation Urban Program 
Subrecipient Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of 
Transportation for the Prairie Avenue/Frontier Mall Drive Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Amendment No. 2  to City Contract No. 6732 and State Lease No. 8 -09466 between the 
City of Cheyenne and the State of Wyoming, Administration & Information, General Services 
Division for the lease of parking spaces located at the Cox Parking Structure  to be used by the 
State – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
 
[CA]  Contract Modification #4 to Contract No. 6743 between the City of Cheyenne and River 
Oaks Communications Corporation, Centennial, CO, for professional services relating to the 
Charter Communications Cable Television Franchise Agreement and Wireless Communication 
Facilities Regulations for small cells (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6836 between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield for 
group health insurance benefits for City employees – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6885 between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering 
Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, to extend the 20th Street Pavement Rehabilitation 
Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 2 to Contract No. 6918 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI 
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, Cheyenne, for construction of the New Municipal Court Building 
Project (General Fund Reserves/Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6970 between the City of Cheyenne and Kaiser 
Corporation d/b/a Kaiser Flooring, Cheyenne,  for the Municipal Building 2 nd Floor Carpet 
Replacement Project to extend the completion date to December 31, 2019  (Capitol Improvement 
Plan (CIP) funding) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase two Lifepak defibrillator devices for the Cheyenne Fire and 
Rescue Department (General fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed 
$56,436.40).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -22-19 for furnishing one (1) four-wheel steering street sweeper 
for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division ( 2015 – 2018 1% Sales Tax)  – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-24-19 for furnishing twenty-six (26) sets of SWAT Team Ballistic 
Protection Platforms for the Cheyenne Police Department  (Homeland Security Grant) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-25-19 for furnishing one (1) Gasoline Powered Rider Sweeper for 
the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Sanitation Small Equipment Fund) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-26-19 for furnishing new tablet computers, docking stations and 
keyboards for the Cheyenne Police Department (2015 – 2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-27-19 for furnishing synthetic double jacket aggressive fire attack 
hose and automatic nozzles for aggressive interior firefighting for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Fire & Rescue Department (General Fund Reserves) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -16-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, for the FY 2019 Miscellaneous Concrete Repairs Project 
(2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase Anti-Vehicle Barriers for the Community Recreation & Events 
Department from Meridian Rapid Defense Group, Pasadena, CA (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the June 13, 2019 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Summer Convention Business 
Meeting to be held in Sheridan, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Core Development Incentivization Program Fiscal Year 2019 Quarterly Report pursuant 
to City Code 15.08.040 – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 28, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming for a winery liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for  GrapesNwine, LLC d/b/a Vintages, 309 North 
American Rd., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Memorial Day holiday and City offices being 
closed on Monday, May 27, 2019, the regularly scheduled City Council meeting will instead be 
held on Tuesday, May 28, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in the Municipal Building, City Council Chambers, 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
Under other business: 
 
City Clerk Kris Jones explained agenda item #21 (c) was inadvertently referred to Finance 
Committee, and that it will instead be heard at the May 21, 2019 Public Services Committee 
meeting to be held at 12:00 p.m. in Municipal Building Room 104. 
 
Mr. White commented on the Big Boy 4014  steam locomotive  event which attracted 
thousands of attendees to the community and expressed appreciation to all who assisted with the 
event and also the C ivic Center Commons ribbon cutting ceremony, Crow Creek clean-up event 
and the ground breaking for Blue Federal Credit Union world headquarters at Cole Square. 
 
Mr. Laybourn expressed appreciation for budget work sessions that were held and spoke 
about continuing funding of the Downtown Development Authority.  He stated, for the record, that 
he had received a bill for almost $1,000 .00 for a public records request for 18 months worth of 
minutes and vouchers  from the D DA. Mr. Laybourn  further commented on fairness and 
transparency for tax payers, possible public meetings to provide information on how the agency 
operates and the purpose of requesting documentation is to see how funds are being utilized.  
 
  
Mr. Esquibel provided information on the Union Pacific Steam Shop and Roundhouse 
located in Cheyenne and advised a functional steam shop would likely boost tourism  in th e 
community. 
 
Mr. Case advised the Wyoming Public Records Act allows for  organizations to charge  
certain fees for researching information for public records requests.   Concern was expressed 
related to Governing Body decorum, process and how business is conducted. 
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:47 p.m.        
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  May 23, 2019 
 