MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-05-28 | CLIP_ID: 711 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 711

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 28, 2019 
 
 Due to the Memorial Day holiday, t he Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne  instead 
met in regular session on this date beginning at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  
MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook (arriving at 6:10 
p.m.), Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  
Absent: Ken Esquibel.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
EXPRESSION OF APPRECIATION TO THE 2018-2019 MAYOR’S YOUTH 
COUNCIL AND STATE OF THE YOUTH ADDRESS. Jan Spires, Youth Alternatives and staff 
advisor to the Mayor’s Youth Council , expressed appreciation to Youth Council members, 
recognized their year in service and introduced Julia Horst, chair for the Mayor’s Youth Council, 
who presented the State of the Youth Address.  Ms. Horst reviewed projects and programs the 
group participated in throughout the year.  She expressed appreciation to Mayor Orr , Ms. Spires 
and fellow Youth Council members.  Mayor Orr expressed appreciation to the Youth Council and 
expressed the importance of the Unaccompanied Students Initiative. Ms. Spires introduced and 
presented awards to the following members: Alexis Arp, Maggie Black, Ashen Doty, Darby 
Downham, Raegan Downham, Connor Fertig, Dylan Fertig, Julia Horst, Marie Lucas, Emily 
Lucero, Lars Quinlivan, Kenitra Shanks, Dominick Singleton and Marty Zhang.   
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Cook and Mr. Case, Agenda Item #21 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request 
by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook and Mr. Case, Agenda Item #26 (e) 
was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. White moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda 
items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present.  
 
Mr. Case moved to suspend the rules by  bringing forward Agenda Item # 25 (g) before 
Agenda Item #6 to allow for consideration of the Cable Franchise Agreement between the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Spectrum Pacific West, LLC l/k/a Charter Communications , seconded 
by Mr. Shanor. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body present. 
 
Cable Franchise Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Spectrum 
Pacific West, LLC l/k/a Charter Communications.  Bob Duchen, River Oaks Communications , 
provided a review of the franchise agreement explaining it is a non-exclusive contract which would 
allow other cable providers to come into Cheyenne. Mr. Duchen advised they are working to find 
solutions for the City and Charter Communications and areas of the agreement that are being fine-
  
tuned are the government ac cess channel including updating the return line and aspects of the 
customer service center. Mr. Duchen advised Charter isn’t agreeable to amendments at this time  
and provided a substitute amendment to the governing body.  Ben Rowland , Davis & Cannon, 
LLP, reported details are being finalized with ongoing negotiations and suggested approval of the 
substitute amendment.  Mr. Rowland explained if the agreement is postponed, a month to month 
agreement will occur due to the current agreement lapsing.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. 
White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. Case moved to postpone for two weeks, 
seconded by Mr. Shanor.  It was noted the amendment was not distributed to all members of the 
governing body.  Comments were made related to postponing the item vs. approving a substitute 
amendment.  Mr. Rowland clarified the procedures of postponing the agreement and approving a 
substitute amendment. Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mayor Orr and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 13, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by  Mr. Case. 
Upon inquiry, Robin Lockman, City Treasurer and Jason Sanchez, Deputy Director, Community 
Recreation and Events provided information available on vouchers payable to the following: JM 
Rodent Control (rodent control at Dinosaur Park – area around Pride Park) and Sundahl, Powers, 
Kapp and Martin LLC (professional legal services for Fight the Blight Initiative funded from the 
general fund).  Responding to an inquiry related to the voucher payable to Hansen, Allen & Luce 
Inc., Amy Allen, City Engineer,  explained the City is under  contract for review of ordinances 
pertaining to drainage issues and confirmed she received directive to enter into the contract.  Ms. 
Allen reviewed the scope of work  as it pertains to the voucher in question (College and Storey 
(Summit) Drainage Investigation ) and advised a final solution based report  will contain 
recommendations. Discussion included: setting precedence for reviewing issues in subdivisions,  
relation of the contract and a recently failed resolution calling for a drainage study in the area and 
the importance of City/County relationship moving forward to address drainage .  Upon inquiry, 
Ms. Allen explained the drainage investigation will review pre and post development of the area. 
Mayor Orr advised the intent is to bring c hanges before the governing body.  Mr. Shanor moved 
to divide the question to allow for separate action on the voucher payable to Hansen, Allen & Luce 
Inc. in the amount of $5,972.84 for College and Storey (Summit) Drainage Investigation, seconded 
by Dr. R inne. Mayor Orr noted the motion was no t debatable.  Motion to divide the question 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present  with the exception of Mr . 
Laybourn voting “no”.  Dr. Rinne raised a point of order related to making a neg ative motion 
(motion to deny the voucher).  Comment was made related to  circumventing the governing body 
approval process.  Ms. Allen clarified a contract with Hansen, Allen & Luce Inc. has been executed 
and the voucher is for a portion of work that has bee n conducted.  Mayor Orr commented on the 
decision to enter into the contract, explained it isn’t her intention to circumvent the governing body 
approval process and requested review of prior City Council proceedings related to the drainage 
study. Upon inquiry, Alessandra McCoy-Fakelman, Deputy City Attorney, provided information 
on the following: breech in contract if affiliated bills aren’t paid, termination clause allowing the 
contract to be terminated and the voucher process, most contracts are for items that have  been 
authorized by the governing body , contracts under $35,000 .00 can be executed administratively, 
  
possibility of revising purchasing requirements and if the contract is terminated, invoices will have 
to be paid for work that has already been completed.  Comments were made in support of the 
contract and how it relates to recent severe weather events, the importance of having a third-party 
review of drainage concerns and support for paying the voucher. Ms. Allen advised recommended 
solutions for drainage issues will show affiliated repair costs.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Case, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and 
Mr. Shanor voting “no”.   Motion to approv e remaining vouchers carried.   Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.   
 
 Mayor Orr opened a  public hearing for an application for a winery liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for GrapesNwine, LLC d/b/a Vintages, 309 North 
American Rd., Cheyenne, Wyoming. Upon inquiry, Kris Jones, City Clerk, provided information 
related to the proposed business stating the  applicant could manufacture wine and dispense the 
wine for on -premises and limited off -premises personal consumption.  There being no further 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing and 
referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee 
Schedule. Vicki Nemecek Public Works Director, recommended approval of the proposed annual 
5% rate increase.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Support was voiced for straight fees for services instead 
of a basic rate fee schedule.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present with the exception of Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor voting “no”. (#4270)  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County CB Community Business to 
CB Community Business for all of FW Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast 
of the intersection of College Drive and Southwest Drive).  Glen Connor, adjacent property owner, 
advised Dr. Kay Sheehan , fellow adjacent property owner,  could not be present to voice her 
opposition and provided a letter from her to the governing body.  Mr. Conn or explained he has 
concerns with area  flooding that is  occurring, noting Ms. Sheehan ’s property to the north is 
currently flooded.  Mr. Connor requested  consideration of  drainage issues before future 
development takes place.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Shanor.  Gene MacDonald, agent for  the applicant, 
provided drainage information regarding the current and proposed detention pond locations for 
FW Subdivision, stated there isn’t much drainage in the current location and there are no signs of 
erosion on Broken Arrow Rd. from water runoff from FW Subdivision.  Mr. MacDonald advised 
the property was previously annexed into the City and it is required to be City zoned, noting the 
zoning classification will remain CB - Community Business.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present.  (#4271) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities. Randy 
  
Hays, Board of Public Utilities, explained there is a recommended 3% water rate increase that will 
allow for multiple projects over the course of the next several years  and loan payoffs which will 
in turn generate more revenue .  Mr. Hays advised a 5% increase for sewer  rates is proposed to 
assist with funding a Dry Creek project and several other revenue generating projects. He provided 
approximate increase amounts for residential and commercial customers.  Per inquiry, Mr. Hays 
explained the BOPU master plan is updated every 10 years and is due to be updated in 2023.  Mr. 
White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2019 and ending June 30, 2020.  Stephanie 
Lowe, President, Cheyenne Public Employees Association (CPEA),  voiced support for the 
contract with Novo Benefits for negotiation assistance on the employee health insurance policy 
with Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wyoming  resulting in no premium increases.  Joe Dougherty 
requested information on the newly proposed Compliance Division, projected revenue reductions, 
number of City employees and voiced concerns on not offering employees wage increases.  Upon 
inquiry, Eric Fountain, Mayor’s Chief of Staff, explained the Compliance Division will consist of 
18.4 positions from Risk Management, Nuisance, ADA Compliance and the Building Department.  
He explained it is not a requirement that the nuisance officer be uniformed Police Department 
position.  Robin Lockman, City Treasurer,  explained upon inquiry  certain revenue line items 
haven’t seen losses, but instead were over-estimated for the 2019 fiscal year.  Mr. Fountain spoke 
about the previous 3% pay for perform ance incentive and reported it wasn’t included in the 
proposed current budget for fiscal year 2020. Reporting for Committee of the Whole,  Mr. White 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by amendment dated 
5-24-19, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Shanor explained the amendment moves $18,000 out of the 
Police Patrol budget line item into Cheyenne Fire & Rescue budget relating to Cheyenne Frontier 
Days overtime expenses and by moving the previously budgeted 9% health insur ance increases 
from each department into a miscellaneous account intended for funding a proposed self -insured 
line item.   Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
Mr. Shanor moved to amend by a n “omnibus budget amendment” containing 11 separate 
amendments, seconded by Mr.  Luna. Mr. Shanor provided an overview of the proposed 
amendment which includes the following changes:  Subtract $140,000.00 from City Council Line 
item (#1), place $90,000.00 into the Engineering line item for right -of-way infrastructure 
improvement program (#2), place $50,000.00 in the Engineering line item to crea te a fund for 
necessary studies evaluating prospective 6th Penny projects to be approved by the Governing Body 
(#3), subtract $20,000.00 from Public Works (#4), subtract $4,000.00 from Community Recreation 
and Events (#5), subtract $130,566.00 form Community Recreation and Events and eliminate two 
new proposed positions (Aquatics and Maintenance Tech)  (#6), place $297,500.00 i nto the 
Economic/Community Development line item  - $190,000.00 to the Downtown Development 
Authority (DDA) and $107,500.00 to the Cheyenne Animal She lter for Animal Control services  
(#7), place $24,000.00 into Community Recreation and Events for professional services (#8), place 
$40,000.00 into Special Projects for an art project in partnership with Arts Cheyenne  (#9), freeze 
all general fund positions from hiring of any current vacant positions and any future vacated 
  
positions until the savings of the proposed amendments ($206,934.00) is met (#10) and cap overall 
full-time employees at 578.1 for FY 2020 (#11).  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, advised 
leaving 5-6 Street and Alley positions vacant would restrict community services.  Greg Hoggatt, 
Chief of Cheyenne Fire and Rescue, inquired about the proposed hiring freeze and how it pertains 
to Firefighters. Mr. Shanor explained Firefighters would be excluded due to the City’s contractual 
agreement with the Fire Union.  Teresa Moore , Community Recreatio n and Events Director,  
provided information on current Aquatics staff and a proposed new position and a request for a 
new Parks maintenance employee.  Astrid, Plains Hotel, expressed appreciation for the proposed 
Downtown Development Authority (DDA) funding.  Alessandra McCoy-Fakelman, Deputy City 
Attorney, expressed concern with the proposed hiring freeze and how it relates to the currently 
vacant City Attorney position.  Anthony Ortiz, local business owner, expressed concern regarding 
current opera tions of the DDA, explained he requested information related to DDA funding 
sources and requested  more program oversight.   Charles Bloom, Planning and Development  
Director, expressed concern regarding the proposed hiring freeze relating to a proposed Planner II 
position in his department, explaining it is budgeted to begin in October.  Ms. Lockman provided 
information on projected time frame to recuperate the proposed $206,934.00 needed to lift the 
hiring freeze which could include contingency funds from  the Mayor’s budget and the cost of 
proposed new City website.  Vicki Duggar, DDA Director, expressed appreciation for the proposed 
DDA funding and advised they recently approve d moving DDA reserves into  the façade 
improvement program. Carman Hess, Wyoming Home, spoke in favor of the DDA program  and 
funding.  Brian Kozak, Chief of Police, expressed concern regarding the proposed amendment and 
how it relates to freezing the department’s positions.  Mr. Shanor explained the intent is to freeze 
all positions until savings is realized.  Chief Kozak provided information on current and proposed 
vacancies and absences due to deployments and expressed the need to hire officers immediately 
as the hiring and training process takes a year.   Aaron Wilmarth, President, Police Protective 
Association, expressed further concern related to an urgent projected staff shortage that will affect 
community safety and noted the City of Casper recently approved a new officer pay scale that will 
result in competition for maintaining and recruiting officers.  Ms. Lowe spoke in opposition of the 
proposed cap on employees as it prevents growth and urged trust in directors to fund  positions 
based on their budgets.  Ms. Moore provided information on budgeted adjustments that were made 
in or der to fill new needed positions.   Amy Allen, City Engineer,  requested clarification on  
proposed budget amendments relating to a right-of-way infrastructure improvement program and 
a fund for studies to evaluate prospective 6 th Penny projects.  Mr. Shanor  advised they are 
generalized to give discretion to Ms. Allen to administer and when proposals are submitted for the 
right-of-way infrastructure program,  a match must be provided.   Ms. Nemecek advised 
miscellaneous concrete funds are available in the 1% budget  line item.  Comments were made 
related to the proposed fund for studies to evaluate prospective 6 th Penny projects being a new 
concept, and the importance of a committee to review the projects.   Ms. Lockman  requested 
detailed dollar amounts related to the proposed freezing of positions in order to balance the budget.  
Comments were made related to meeting the proposed $206,934 .00 in savings with various 
funding mechanisms including reserves, miscellaneous concrete funds and funding designated for 
The Hole property . Discussion continued and included:  DDA proposed funding, remaining FY 
2018-2019 budgeted funds that can potentially be rolled over, Youth Alternatives vacant position 
and how it relates to grant requ irements, savings utilized to fund DDA and one -time Animal 
Shelter improvements and alternative mechanisms to fund one-time improvements.   
  
Following a brief recess, Mayor Orr reconvened the meeting at 8:12 p.m.   Further 
discussion continued and included: Support and opposition of the proposed amendments and 
possibility of further amendments.  Mayor Orr expressed concern relating to how the proposed 
amendment may send a message to candidates for employment.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Mayor 
Orr voting “no”.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by  applying $90,000.00 from line item 1% sales 
tax 2019 -2022 towards a right -of-way infrastructure improvement program, leaving remai ning 
language (#2), adding “full-time” to #10, 3rd line and by adjusting #12 by subtracting $90,000.00 
from $206,934.00 which is $116,934.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Ms. Nemecek commented on 
the proposed right -of-way infrastructure improvement program and how it relates to City code 
requirements stating curb, gutter and sidewalk must be maintained by adjacent property owners.  
Chief Kozak advised he will delay a  Captain promotion that would result in other promotions 
resulting in a $70,000.00 savings and requested the hiring freeze be removed from police officers.  
Comments were made related to the proposed right -of-way infrastructure program and how it 
relates to City code provis ions and  required adjustments to the amendment can be made 
accordingly. Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” all members of the governing body present 
with the exception of Mr. L aybourn voting “no”. It was noted the  minimum revenue guarantee 
(MRG) for air service wasn’t included in the budget, with Ms. Lockman confirming the exclusion 
of the revenue. Mr. Case moved to amend by moving $650,000.00 from reserves to the MRG line 
item for air service, seconded by Mr. Shanor. Friendly amendment was offered by Dr. Rinne and 
accepted by Mr. Case and Mr. Shanor, as the maker and second to the motion to amend, to add 
“up to” before $650,000.  Ms. Lockman provided information on unassigned and unrestricted 
general fund reserves amounts and explained $250,000 has been spent to date and doesn’t include 
the current quarter billings. Upon inquiry, Ms. McCoy-Fakelman advised a resolution rescinding 
the original resolution  outlining funding for The Hole would be needed to utilize the funding 
differently. Main motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present with the exception of Mr. L aybourn voting “no”.  Motion as amended four times carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 5.6.2 
PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Unified Development Code, changing the 
zoning classification from CB  Community Business and County A -1 Agricultural and Rural 
Residential to Harmony Valley Planned Unit Development for portions of the S1/2 of Section 7 
and the S1/2 of the NE1/4 of Section 7, Township 13 North, Range 66 West, of the 6th P.M., City 
of Cheyenne Laramie County, Wyoming (as described in Exhibit A and generally located northeast 
of the intersection of West College Drive and Parsley Boulevard. Kelly Hafner, CivilWorx, agent 
for the applicant, provided information on the reques t stating a PUD is desirable as aspects of 
different zone types can be added into one document.  Mr. Hafner advised there are concerns 
relating to placement of required landscaping (trees) involving underground utilities and the 
applicant is proposing 5’ attached sidewalks instead of 6’ detached sidewalks.  He explained they 
can provide cash-in-lieu instead of required landscaping and could place trees in open space areas 
or on lots and proposed l ower volume residential roads  involving an interval curb and gutter 
section.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading  with Planning Commission 
recommendations # 3 & 4 to be renumbered as # 1 & 2 and updating Exhibit B prior to 3rd reading 
  
on June 10, 2019, seconded by Mr.  Luna.  Comments were made related to street landscaping 
requirements and concern for proposed attached sidewalks relating to pedestrian safety. Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with the exception of  Mr. 
Luna, Mayor Orr and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.   
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne for fiscal year 2019-2020 – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Police Department for fiscal year 2019 -2020 – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Christensen Park, situated in a portion of the SW¼ NE¼, Section 36, Township 14 North, Range 
67 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the 
southwest corner of Talbot Court and Cribbon Avenue)  (Postponed from 0 5-13-19).  Dr. Rinne 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to June 10 , 2019, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne advised the land title which was originally transferred in the 
1950’s contains inaccuracies and updates are required.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – For Governing Body approval of a three -year Bronze Boot Sponsor 
relationship between Cheyenne Frontier Days and Miller/Coors for 2019 -2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#5991) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wy oming Department 
of Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Program Grant to provide the local 
match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit Program, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C. § 5311.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5992) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for US 30 
Business Plaza, Second Filing, a replat of Lots 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8, Block 1 and all of Lots 2, 3, and 
4, Block 2, and all of Tim Tam Street, and all of  the 16’ alley located in Block 1, Countryside 
Addition, together with Lots 7, 8 and 9, Block One, US 30 Business Plaza, City of Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the intersection of Countryside Avenue and 
Whitney Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5993) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for FW 
Subdivision, 2 nd Filing, a replat of all of Lot 1, Block 1, FW Subdivision, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of College Drive and Southwest Drive).  Dr. Rinne 
  
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried .  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#5994) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign an Access Easement 
for Texas Roadhouse of Cheyenne, LLC to build and maintain a vehicular and pedestrian bridge 
on and over a City drainage channel for the purpose of accessing an accessory parking lot located 
at the south east corner of Edgewater Avenue and Bluegrass Circle.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#5995) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2019 budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §16 -4-112 & §16 -4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the expansion of the Capitol North Historic District and the 
addition of one hundred seventeen (117) structures to the Contributing Structures List maintained 
by the City’s Planning Office – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Downtown 
Development Authority .  Astrid, DDA and Plains Hotel, spoke in favor of the MOU .  Vicki 
Duggar, DDA Director, spoke in support of the MOU that has framework she believes is beneficial 
to all parties.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend 
by substitute dated 05-24-19 #1 which changes the deadline, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne 
advised rationale for change in date is to provide enough time to obtain information requested 
which will be available in October.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by substitute #2 which includes the additions 
of Sections 6 and 7 and i ncludes the date amendment approved in substitute #1.  Ms. McCoy -
Fakelman advised Section 6 addresses landscaping services and Section 7 incorporates comments 
based on maintenance responsibilities in the downtown district. Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend Section 5 (a) 
relating to sales tax to baseline year Jan 1- 2019 – Dec. 31 2019, and Section 5 (b) by adding “by 
June 30, 2019”, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present .  Discussion topics included: Support for  the MOU, possible future 
revisions, DDA Board information, concerns regarding meeting financial reporting requirements 
and the importance of providing financial reports, financial reports reviewed at monthly meetings 
and City Council lia ison involvement.  Ms. Dugger explained she was not aware of financial 
reporting requirements and has set a work session with an attorney to review state and city 
requirements.  Mr. White advised he was also not aware of the requirement as City Council liaison 
and will now be forwarding the reports to colleagues. Ms. McCoy-Fakelman advised she believes 
the code requires a report to be forwarded to the full governing body. Inquiry was made related to 
receiving previously requested financial reports for the past 18 months that incurred a fee.  It was 
noted comments were not germane to the topic.  Main motion as twice amended carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#7002) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization, and Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc., Denver, CO, for the PlanCheyenne 
  
update: 2019-2045 (MPO Federal funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to 
exceed $352,924.00). (#7003) 
 
[CA] Department of the Air Force license to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to use prope rty 
located on F.E. Warren Air Force Base, Wyoming, for a parking lot to be used by patrons attending 
the 2019 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7004) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for land 
owned by the United States Department of the Airforce located at F.E. Warren Air Force Base to 
be used and operated as a parking lot for public transportation services during the 2019 Cheyenne 
Frontier Days celebration. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7005) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier Days, Inc., for buses 
owned by the Laramie County School District Number One to be used and operated for public 
transportation services during the 2019 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7006) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Frontier Days, 
Inc. and Laramie County School District Number One, for buses owned by the Laramie C ounty 
School District Number One to be used and operated for public transportation services during the 
2019 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7007)  
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, City of Cheyenne Board 
of Public Utilities and McGee, Hearne and Paiz, LLC, Cheyenne, to audit the annual financial 
statements of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming (General fund) .  Motion (per Conse nt Agenda) 
carried (amount not to exceed $330,000.00). (#7008) 
 
[CA] Industrial and Economic Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS) (General fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 2 to use agreement, Contract No. 5963 between the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming and Level 3 Communications, LLC, Broomfield, CO, for limited use of the 
public right-of-way for the installation of fiber optic communications systems and setting a fee for 
that use.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to City). (#5963) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6481 for Surface Transportation Urban Program 
Subrecipient Agreement between th e City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of 
Transportation for the Prairie Avenue/Frontier Mall Drive Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $241,118.00). (#6481) 
 
[CA] Amendment No. 2  to City Contract No. 6732 and State Lease No. 8 -09466 between the 
City of Cheyenne and the State of Wyoming, Administration & Information, General Services 
Division for the lease of parking spaces located at the Cox Parking Structure to be used by the 
State.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to City). (#6732) 
  
 
 Contract Modification #4 to Contract No. 6743 between the City of Cheyenne and River 
Oaks Communications Corporation, Centennial, CO, for professional services relating to the 
Charter Communications Cable Television Franchise Agreement and Wireless Communication 
Facilities Regulations for small cells (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax).  Alessandra McCoy-Fakelman, 
Deputy City Attorney,  advised the modification includes financial adjustments and changes 
associated dates and requested approval. Mr. White advised there was no recommendation on the 
item from Finance Committee. Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Support for 
the item was voiced and comment was made related to the complexity of small cell issues and the 
consultant’s subject knowledge.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. (#6743) 
 
 Renewal of Contract #6836 between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield for 
group health insurance benefits for City employees . Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by 
Mr. Luna. Upon inquiry, Greg Hoggatt, Chief of Cheyenne Fire and Rescue, explained there is a 
Joint Powers Board that contracts ambulance service  and services are provided throu gh that 
company.  Chief Hoggat t provided information relating to pricing and insurance coverage 
involving ambulance services provided by AMR and advised  when the current contract is 
terminated, the City and County  go out for bid for other service options.  Dianna Madvig, Novo 
Benefits, advised if the City seeks to be self-funded next fiscal year, a difficulty may still be present 
regarding ambulance services.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. (#6836) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6885 between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering 
Department, and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, to extend the 20th Street Pavement Rehabilitation 
Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed 
$275,671.54). (#6885) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 2 to Contract No. 6918 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI 
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, Cheyenne, for construction of the New Municipal Court Building 
Project (General Fund Reserves/Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (amount not to exceed $8,784,758.00). (#6918) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract No. 6970 between the City of Cheyenne and Kaiser 
Corporation d/b/a Kaiser Flooring, Cheyenne,  for the Municipa l Building 2 nd Floor Carpet 
Replacement Project to extend the completion date to December 31, 2019  (Capitol Improvement 
Plan (CIP) funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6970) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract No. 6660 between the City of Cheyenne and WYCO 
Recycling LLC, Cheyenne, to change the business name – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 1 to Professional Services Agreement #6785 for the Christensen 
Railroad Overpass Corridor Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -22-19 for furnishing one (1) four-wheel steering street sweeper 
for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division ( 2015 – 2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried  (accepted bid from Hardline Equipment, Commerce City, CO, in an 
amount not to exceed $258,149.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-24-19 for furnishing twenty-six (26) sets of SWAT Team Ballistic 
Protection Platforms for the Cheyenne Police Department  (Homeland Security Grant) .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Adamson Police Products, Frederick, CO, in an 
amount not to exceed $94,733.60). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-25-19 for furnishing one (1) Gasoline Powered Rider Sweeper for 
the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Sanitation Small Equipment Fund) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Grainger, Ft. Collins, CO, in an amount not to exceed 
$80,000.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-26-19 for furnishing new tablet computers, docking stations and 
keyboards for the Cheyenne Police Department (2015 – 2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Dell Technologies, Round Rock, TX, in an amount not to 
exceed $189,044.25). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-27-19 for furnishing synthetic double jacket aggressive fire attack 
hose and automatic nozzles for aggressive interior firefighting for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Fire & Rescue Department (General Fund Reserves).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from CoPro Emergency Fire Product (EFP), Eastlake, CO, in an amount not to 
exceed $49,255.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -16-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, for the FY 2019 Miscellaneous Concrete Repairs Project 
(2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid from JTL 
Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $475.169.35) (#7009) 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase Anti-Vehicle Barriers for the Community Recreation & Events 
Department from Meridian Rapid Defense Group, Pasadena, CA (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $158,007.00) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-21-19 for furnishing new computers and operating systems for 
the City of Cheyenne, Information Technology Division (2015 – 2018 1% Sales Tax)  – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Social club liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s o ffice for Mary Godfrey 
Playhouse, 2706 E. Pershing Blvd., Cheyenne, WY.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Adeli, LLC d/b/a 
Railyard Café – Coffee Haus & Eatery, 1620 E. Pershing Blvd., Cheyenne, WY .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
  
 
 Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the June 13, 2019 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Summer Convention Business 
Meeting to be held in Sheridan, Wyoming .   Mr. White moved to designate Dr. Rinne as Offical 
Voting Delegate and Mr. Laybourn as Alternate Delegate, seconded by Mr. Roybal.     Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
 Core Development Incentivization Program Fiscal Year 2019 Quarterly Report pursuant 
to City Code 15.08.040. Charles Bloom, Planning & Development Director, provided information 
regarding the program and advised the program expires June 30th of this year.  Mr. Bloom reported 
at this time staff is not recommending the program continue as it was utilized in a reactive response 
rather than as an incentive to develop.  He further explained  applicants would request a refund 
after their development was complete instead of prior to, and reported development is happening 
downtown whether  the program exists or not.   Ms. Lockman advised this program was not 
accounted for in proposed FY 2020 budget.  Mr. White moved to acknowledge receipt  of the 
report, seconded by Mr. Shan or.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present.  
 
Re-appointments of Allan Cunningham and James Murphy to the Board of Public Utilities.  
Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  V oting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present  with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote 
(mayoral appointments). 
 
     
Appointments of Marsha Dial and Charity Henning to the Mayor’s Council for People with 
Disabilities.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not 
vote (mayoral appointments). 
  
Announcement was made of Public Hearing to be held June 10, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming for a proposed sale of undeveloped 
public property described as a portion, consisting of approximately 1.46 acres, of Lot 2, Block 1, 
Pat Griffin Park, containing 5.5 acres, more or less, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, 
with an appraised value of $111,000.00, to Moreland Properties, LLD.    
 
Announcement was made of Public Hearing to be held June 10, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming for proposed budgets for the City 
of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2020.      
 
Under other business: 
 
 Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, advised the property referenced in 
agenda item #29 (e) is located along Missile Drive and is currently vacant. 
 
  
 Mayor Orr provided clarification on the drainage study for the Thomas Heights area.  Upon 
inquiry, Amy Allen, City Engineer, reported she was directed by the Mayor to have the study 
conducted and advised the purpose of the study is to evaluate potential options for drainage issues 
in the Thomas Heights area and to provide information th at would assist the City in revising the 
current code requirements to help with  eliminating future issues involving drainage with new 
developments.  Comments were made regarding a previous failed attempt to address the drainage 
issues associated with the Thomas Heights area relating to City and County involvement.   
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 9:31 p.m.        
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 11, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  