MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-06-10 | CLIP_ID: 712 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 712

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 10, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Dicky 
Shanor and Jeff White. Absent: Ken Esquibel and Mike Luna.  Also present: Kris Jones, City 
Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Case, and pursuant to support received two 
other members, Agenda Item #20 (a) was removed from the Consent Agenda .  Upon request by 
Mr. Case, and pursuant to support received by two other members , Agenda Item #2 1 (b) was 
removed from the Consent Agenda.   Mr. Roybal moved to approve  remaining Consent Agenda 
items, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present.  
 
 [CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 28, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from  Special Meeting of  the Governing Body on June 5, 2019 .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. White. 
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Dr. Rinne voting “no”. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing for a proposed sale of undeveloped public property 
described as a portion, consisting of approximately 1.46 acres, of Lot 2, Block 1, Pat Griffin Park, 
containing 5.5 acres, more or less, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, with an 
appraised value of $111,000.00, to Moreland Properties, LLD.  Brendan Ames, Chief Economic 
Development Officer, provided a staff report on the property noting the economic importance of 
developing the land for the west corridor of the City. He advised the property is currently vacant 
and blighted , the land will be used as a large car dealership  and the interested purchaser 
understands the importance of the Crow Creek Revival (CCR) Project near the property.  Concern 
was expressed related to how the sale and development of the property may impact the CCR 
Project.  Mr. Ames explained there isn’t a site plan or total configuration of the proposed business 
yet, and the potential owner can collaborate with the CCR Committee.  Jeff Geyer, Laramie County 
Conservation District, presented a map of the CCR Project, provided information on Committee 
  
composition which is made of agencies and members of the public and advised the committee has 
been developing a master plan and implementation for 2020. Mr. Geyer advised the  CCR 
Committee is in support of the land acquisition and it’s private/public partnership  and is looking 
forward to  working with adjacent Crow Creek prope rty owner s.  The y requested the City to 
maintain ownership of the 20’ swath of land paralleling the Crow Creek floodway (1,300 linear 
sq. ft.) on top of the floodway terrace to be used as a Greenway trail for the following reasons: 
Greenway vision for the area has been in the masterplan for the area since 1992, ideal flat 
topography and location for a trail, customer exposure for the new proposed business, great trail 
overview as opposed to placement in the floodway corridor and the suggested placement would 
be less likely to sustain damage from peak storm runoff events . Mr. Geyer explained the p roject 
requires land outside of floodway to be included in the excavated area  and requested to maintain 
public access for parking (enough for a school bus to maneuver) and foot and bike traffic as it is 
important for the project. He noted the CCR Committee w ould like to be able to provide input 
during the early planning process.  Comments were made related to timing of the CCR Project and 
when it was brought before City Council, development of the land  and the importance of Crow 
Creek revitalization and development of the land.  Nancy L oomis, project leader for  the 
Community Wildlife Habitat Project for the W est Edge district, provide d information on the 
project, goals and project areas .  She explained 4 City properties have been certified  through the 
National Wildlife Federation as wildlife habitats  and the property being discussed isn’t included 
in the Community Wildlife Habitat Project area but has direct impact downstream and requested 
the developer to work with Laramie County Conservation District and the CCR Committee. Tom 
Annear, spoke in support of the project and suggested coordination between involved parties.   
Brent Lathrop, South East Wyoming Director for the Nature Conservancy, commented on livable 
cities, spoke in support of the CCR Project and requested a deliberate property agreement and sale.  
Further comments were made related to Pat Griffin Park history and Mr. Griffin’s intent to develop 
the land, donating property purchase price dollars to Greenway path construction  and the 
importance of the CCR Project.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the 
hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing.  
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing  for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and 
Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2020.  There being no comments or input and purpose of 
the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utili ties.   
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal. Board of Public Utilities  (BOPU) City Council representative Mr. 
Laybourn provided information on the proposed increases  and explained  BOPU is  diligently 
looking at future resource needs as the community grows.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#4272) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
  
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2019 and ending June 30, 2020.  Molly 
Bennett, Cheyenne Public Employees Association ( CPEA), requested removing the cap on 
employees and provided information on the importance of not capping the number of full -time 
employees stating it is essential to continue to provide services as the City grows.  Ms. Bennett 
requested support of the governing body to allow Department Directors the ability to efficiently 
determine how to staff their departments  to provide department and p ublic service functions.  
Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, confirmed an email sent during the week of June 3 rd correctly 
reflected the current number of employees at that time was 562.  Mayor Orr advised the City is 
obligated to hold military employee full t ime positions while on deployments.  Darrin Hass, 
Human Resources Director, reported an additional full -time employee has been hired increasing 
the employee number to 563(including deployed full-time employees) and advised currently there 
are 12 open positions . Ms. Lockman explained 5 of the open positions are funded through the 
General Fund and the others are f rom other funding sources and th e number does not include 3 
proposed new positions for FY 2020.  JJ  Chen, expressed appreciation to  City employees and 
spoke in support of the Downtown Development Authority (DDA).  Reporting for Committee of 
the Whole, Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Mr. 
Shanor moved to amend by substitute dated 6/10/19, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Mr. Shanor advised 
the amendment incorporates footnotes as recommended at the 06-05-19 Committee of the Whole 
meeting into line items and provides for clarification of intended footnotes.  Mayor Orr clarified 
the proposed substitute dated 06/10/19 does not include a previously approved hiring freeze and 
further clarified proposed footnotes.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by add ing Footnote #3 that adds  
$100,000.00 to reserves from FY 2019 reversions, seconded by Mr. Cook.   Motion to amend 
carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Mr. White moved to amend 
Footnote #2 to change  the employee cap number to 580.1, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Mr. White 
explained this is an effort to give staff a little more flexibility for adjusting department staffing 
levels.   Motion to amend carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
Mr. Laybourn m oved to amend  the Economic/Community Development line  item by moving 
$30,000.00 from the DDA to the Police Department budget for the Downtown Operation Change 
Patrol Program, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr . Laybourn spoke  in support of and provided 
information on the program.   Captain Nathan Buseck, Police Department, provided information 
on the previous success and focus of the Downtown Operation Change Patrol Program which 
included providing the homeless/transient popula tion with tools to improve their current living 
situations.   Captain Buseck explained the program was previously funded through grants which 
are no longer available, noting the program is not currently budgeted for in FY 2020, and reported 
when there is a police officer presence downtown, there is less crime in the area.  Vicki Duggar, 
DDA Director, advised upon inquiry, the proposed DDA funding from the City will require further 
DDA Board action due to a proposed reduction in the funding total.  Comments were made on the 
importance of the downtown patrol program and the proposed budget of the DDA including staff 
salaries.  Captain Buseck provided information on the graffiti abatement program and budget line 
item upon inquiry . Ms. Lockman provided  further information on graffiti  abatement program 
funding line item and available balance.  Comments were made  in support of continued funding 
for the graffiti abatement program.  Motion to amend failed.   Voting “no” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “yes”.  Mr. Laybourn moved 
to amend by moving $10,344 .00 from the General Fund reserves revenue category and adding it 
  
to the Police Department budget for the Downtown Operation Change Patrol Program, seconded 
by Mr. Cook. Captain Buseck requested caution regarding removing all funding for the graffiti 
abatement program as it is still needed for that purpose .  Upon inquiry, Ms. Lockman provided 
information on funds expended from the graffiti abatement line item over the last 3 years.  Motion 
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as 
amended four times carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.   The 
following is a summary of the proposed budget , including the aforementioned amendments : 
General Fund, $ 56,073,809; Weed and Pest, $ 515,683; Youth Alternatives Grants, $ 574,762; 
Development Impact Fees, $ 151,200; Recreation Programs, $1 ,337,339; Community 
Development Block Grant, $ 506,474; Law Enforcement Grants, $ 171,032; Transportation 
Planning, $870,097; FTA Transit Grant, $ 2,432,324; Juvenile Justice, $ 80,409; Special Friends, 
$76,363; Specific Purpose Option Tax, $325,158; One Percent Sales Tax 2019 -22, $10,899,926; 
Youth Activities/Ropes, $18,000; Golf Facilities, $201,000; Fleet Maintenance, $4,322,249; Solid 
Waste Management, $ 18,015,303; Civic Center, $ 2,348,249; Ice & Events Center, $ 685,503; 
Perpetual Care, $2,000; Total City, $ 99,606,880; Water Enterprise, $ 30,186,375; Sewer 
Enterprise, $17,348,745; Total Appropriation, $147,142,000. (#4273) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 5.6.2 
PUD – Planned Unit Development District, of the Unified Development Code, changing the 
zoning classification from CB Community Business and County A -1 Agricultural and Rural 
Residential to Harmony Valley Planned Unit Development for portions of the S1/2 of Section 7 
and the S1/2 of the NE1/4 of Section 7, Township 13 North, Range 66 West, of the 6th P.M., City 
of Cheyenne Laramie County, Wyoming (as described in Exhibit A and generally located northeast 
of the intersection of West College Drive and Parsley Boulevard. Rep orting for Public Services 
Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. 
Rinne moved to amend by substitute for Exhibit B dated June 4, 2019, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main motion 
as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4274)   
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne for fiscal year 2019 -2020.  Mr. White moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of  employment for 
sworn officers of the Police Department for fiscal year 2019 -2020.  Mr. White moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (“UDC”), replacing UDC Section 5.8.1 in response to the rapidly 
changing technology and regulatory environment for wireless communication facilities, including 
the deployment of new, smaller wireless communication facilities – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Shanor) 
 
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to  sign a Final Plat for 
Christensen Park, situated in a portion of the SW¼ NE¼, Section 36, Township 14 North, Range 
67 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the 
southwest corner of Talbot Court and Cribbon Aven ue) (Postponed from 05 -28-19).  Dr. Rinne 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Case.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to 06-24-2019, seconded 
by Mr. Case.  Dr. Rinne advised the land title which was originally transferred in the 1950’s 
contains inaccuracies and upd ates are required.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2019 budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §16 -4-112 & §16 -4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#5996) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the expansion of the Capitol North Historic District and the 
addition of one hundred seventeen (117) structures to the Contributing Structures List maintained 
by the City’s Planning Office.  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne 
moved to amend the 3 references of the number of structures from 117 to 119 , seconded by Mr. 
Shanor.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
(#5997) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution No. 59 34 pertaining to adoption of a revised 
Cheyenne-Laramie County Board of Health Fee Schedule for inspection services, permit fees and 
other various services – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
  
 Cable Franchise Agreement between the City  of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Spectrum 
Pacific West, LLC l/k/a Charter Communications  (Postponed from 05-28-2019).  Ben Rowland, 
Davis & Cannon, LLP, reported a revised final franchise agreement has been agreed upon by the 
associated parties and requested approval.  Mr. Rowland expressed appreciation for assistance by 
each party involved in reaching the final agreement.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Rowland provided 
information on the return line from City hall to Charter “head end” which is how they provide the 
public access channel, noting an agreement has been reached related to  details of the return line 
and that a mandatory mediation process may occur if parties can’t reach an agreement when the 
agreement expires in the future .  Regarding the customer service center,  Mr. Rowland advised 
there is a brick and mortar customer service center in Cheyenne and current language provides for 
a local customer service center within the franchise area of Cheyenne city limits. Erik Rasmussen, 
Charter Communications, reported parties have come to an agreement on  two outstanding issues 
and requested approval of the proposed revised franchise agreement.  Mr. White moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. Case moved to amend by substitute dated 06-10-19, seconded by Dr. 
  
Rinne.  Mr.  Rowland clarified the customer service area is outlined within the substitute 
agreement.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
(#7012) 
 
[CA] Industrial and Economic Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS) (General fund ).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $49,825.00). (#7013) 
 
[CA] Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Moreland Properties, 
LLC, Englewood, CO, for the sale of undeveloped public property described as a portion, 
consisting of approximately 1.46 acres, of Lot 2, Block 1, Pat Griffin Park, containing 5.5 acres, 
more or less, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, for the appraised value of 
$111,000.00 – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Telecommunications right of way license and use agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and Zayo Group, LLC, Boulder, CO – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, and Johnson County, Johnson County Sheriff’s Office, Wyoming, for law 
enforcement extraterritorial assistance – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, and the City of Torrington, Torrington Police Department, for law enforcement 
extraterritorial assistance – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for the 
use of the Cheyenne Civic Center for the Youth Education Concerts (Economic Support funds) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  Contract Modification #2 to Contract No. 6660 between the City of Cheyenne and WYCO 
Recycling LLC, Cheyenne, to change the business name.  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, 
advised the contractor has requested a postponement, noting staff supports the request.  Mr. White 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. White moved to postpone to  06-24-2019, 
seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present.   
 
 Contract Modification # 1 to Professi onal Services Agreement #6785 for the Christensen 
Railroad Overpass Corridor Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Wes Bay, Deputy City 
Engineer, provided an overview of what the modification entails. Mr. Bay, upon inquiry, provided 
information relating t o the history of  the project design, primarily involving the design specific 
modifications to the intersection of Christensen and Pershing Blvd. He explained existing grades 
in the location of the previously proposed roundabout intersection are not conducive for 
construction of a roundabout, noting a 4-lane signalized intersection is currently be considered for 
that location.  Mr. Bay further reported on national design standards involving various intersection 
designs.  Council President Mr. Case provided information relating to the intersection design plans 
  
dating back to February 2014 which includes  ordinances approved by the governing body and 
associated design mapping relating to the project, noting public input for design modifications 
should be considered.  Upon inquiry, Logan Sharpe, Assistant City Attorney, confirmed the design 
map approved in relation to  Ordinance #3279 (03-25-1996) is the mos t recent map approved by 
the governing body.  Mr. Sharpe further reported Ordinance #3279 does not require construction 
of a roundabout intersection and advised he will provide additional information relating to ability 
to construct a skewed intersection upon further review.   Comments were made relating to original 
project design, public input, project expectations and concerns with recent accidents within and 
around skewed intersections.  Mr. Bay provided additional information involving design options  
and evaluations and research, noting the proposed intersection would function much like the 
intersection of Pershing Blvd. and US Highway  30, noting additional review of a signalized 
skewed intersection is being considered.  Mr. Bay explained use of force ac count funding, noting 
the force account is to cover  issues that may arise to keep the project on track .  Discussion and 
comments were made regarding intersection design, public input on design modifications, force 
account funding and construction managemen t.   Mr. Bay confirmed  the project design is not 
complete and a public forum involving proposed changes  can be arranged.  Mr. White moved in 
an amount not to exceed $710,983.20, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Bay, upon inquiry, advised 
the proposed modificat ion funding would come from current project funding (2012 6 th Penny).  
Mayor Orr advised the project is currently below the $15 million budget.  Mr. Case moved to 
postpone to 06-24-19, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Sharpe confirmed he will provide the governing 
body with clarification on questions pertaining to previously approved project related ordinances, 
associated design mapping and traffic study report.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Orr and Dr. Rinne voting 
“no”.     
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -21-19 for furnishing new computers and operating systems for 
the City of Cheyenne, Information Technology Division  (2015 – 2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Dell Technologies, Round Rock, TX, in an 
amount not to exceed $39,259.08). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -17-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, and Ameri -
Tech HVAC Services, Cheyenne, for the HVAC and Mechanical Syste ms Maintenance Project 
(Civic Center, Fleet Maintenance, General Fund, Ice & Events, and Solid Waste funds) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -28-19 for furnishing two (2) new 2019 -2020 15 passenger vans 
for the City of Cheyenne , Recreation Division  (Reserves carryover) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -14-19 for furnishing one (1) new four -door Utility Police 
Interceptor (staff vehicle) for Cheyenne Fire & Rescue (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -33-19 for furnishing 95 gallon and 65 gallon automated refuse 
carts for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -34-19 for  furnishing 1 ½ cubic yard capacity steel Sanitation 
refuse containers with covers for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Application for a winery liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for 
GrapesNwine, LLC d/b/a Vintages, 309 North American Rd., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:49 p.m.        
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 18, 2019 
  