MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-06-24 | CLIP_ID: 714 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 714

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 24, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor  and Jeff White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The 
pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.    Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
 [CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 10 , 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Luna.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.    
  
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
non-uniformed employees of the City of Cheyenne for fiscal year 2019 -2020.  Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by M r. 
Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4275) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Police Department for fiscal year 2019-2020.  Mr. White moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by increasing the 
number of sworn officers from 111 to 112, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion  to amend carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Main motion  as amended carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4276) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. White moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4277) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (“UDC”), replacing UDC Section 5.8.1 in response to the rapidly 
changing technology and regulatory environment for wireless communication facilities, including 
  
the deployment of new, smaller wireless communication facilities .  Charles Bloom, Planning & 
Development Director, provided a staff report and advised staff supports approval of the ordinance 
which establishes standards and guidelines.  M r. Bloom explained the purpose is to allow for 
deployment small cell wireless communication facilities and advised  in January 2019, a Federal 
Communications Commission ( FCC) ruling was implemented that City’s cannot  prohibit the 
deployment of small cell wireless communication facilities.  Mr. Bloom advised staff has worked 
with multiple providers to come to an agreement on the proposed ordinance, noting  an item of 
concern is current restrictions on light poll height and indicated a proposed substitute will be forth 
coming to address the issue.   He further noted  a request has been made for an exemption for 
microcell facilities located on existing wirelines  and reviewed the required shock clock review 
period.  Bob Duchen, River Oaks Communications, explained the proposed ordinance provides 
for best practices not only for Wyoming, but around the country as well.  Mr. Duchen reported the 
FCC order implemented strict compliance relating to review periods and limits amount of revenue 
communities can receive for facilities placed within public rights -of-way.  He provided 
information on a recent cost study which indicates the revenue is below actual costs for 
communities.  Mr. Duchen advised the FCC order is currently in the Unites States Court of Appeals 
9th Circuit.  Erik Rasmussen, Charter Communications, advised there will  be a few 
recommendations of change for the ordinance to come before the Public Services Committee  on 
July 2, 2019.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr.  Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 2.04.160(D), Readings-Committee 
Reports-Amendments, of Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and 
Personnel, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. Case)  Upon inquiry, Mr. Case, sponsor of  the ordinance, explained the item 
involves City sponsorships and other special revenue s, therefore is being referred to the Finance 
Committee.   
 
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Christensen Park, situated in a portion of the SW¼ NE¼, Section 36, Township 14 North, Range 
67 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the 
southwest corner of Talbot Court and Cribbon Avenue) (Postponed from 0 6-24-19).  Mr. Shanor 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. Shanor moved to postpone to 07-08-19, seconded by 
Mr. Roybal.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution No. 5934 pertaining to adoption of a revised 
Cheyenne-Laramie County Board of Health Fee Schedule for inspection services, permit fees and 
other various services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5998) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for federal funding through the Transportation Alternatives Program administered by the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of  constructing a multi -use path for 
pedestrians and bicycles at Lions Park and Frontier Park – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Repealing Resolution No. 5835, as amended, and Resolution No. 5942, 
both pertaining to the  expedient redevelopment of the building located at 1602 Capitol Avenue, 
commonly referred to as the Historic Hynds Building – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor 
– Mr. Case) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Naming the future Municipal Courthouse in honor of Judge J oseph M. 
Carey – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Luna, Mr. White and Mr. Roybal) 
 
 Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Moreland Properties, 
LLC, Englewood, CO, for the sale of undeveloped public property desc ribed as a portion, 
consisting of approximately 1.46 acres, of Lot 2, Block 1, Pat Griffin Park, containing 5.5 acres, 
more or less, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, for the appraised value of 
$111,000.00.  Jeff Geyer, Laramie County Conservation District and representative for the Clear 
Creek Revival Project (CCR), voiced support of the agreement.  Mr. White moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Laybourn.   Dr. Rinne reported he attended the recent Wyoming  Association of 
Municipalities (WAM) Summer C onvention and learned  many municipalities  have completed 
some significant development s utilizing a revolving land fund.  Dr. Rinne advised  when those 
communities sold property they would place revenue from those purchase and sale agreements 
into a revolvin g land fund for future development opportunities.  Mr. White moved to amend 
Section 2 by directing the revenue realized from the sale in the amount of $111,000.00 be 
appropriated to the 6th Penny Greenway account, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to amend carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the 
exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#7015) 
 
[CA] Telecommunications right of way license and use agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and Zayo Group, LLC, Boulder, CO .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to City). 
(#7016) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenn e Police 
Department, and Johnson County, Johnson County Sheriff’s Office, Wyoming, for law 
enforcement extraterritorial assistance.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7017) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Polic e 
Department, and the City of Torrington, Torrington Police Department, for law enforcement 
extraterritorial assistance.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7018) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Symphony Orchestra for the 
use of the Cheyenne Civic Center for the Youth Education Concerts (Economic Support funds) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $6,500.00). (#7019) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and  
Laramie County to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College 
  
and for an area of Laramie County immediately adjacent to the City  (Revenue to City) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Office Rental Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and The Friends of the Botanic 
Gardens Foundation (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne  and Semple Brown 
Design, PC, Denver, CO, for the Civic Center Conceptual Design Project (2015 -2018 1% Sales 
Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  Contract Modification #2 to Contract No. 6660 between the City of Cheyenne and WYCO 
Recycling LLC, Cheyenne, to change the business name  (Postponed from 06 -10-19). Vicki 
Nemecek, Public Works Director, advised the contractor has requested this item be withdrawn and 
requested allowing the item to die. Mr. White reported there was no recommendation on the item 
from Finance Committee.  The item died due to the lack of a motion to approve.     
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 1 to Professional Services Agreement #6785 for the Christensen 
Railroad Overpass Corridor Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax)  (Postponed from 06 -10-19).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $710,983.20) (#6785) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6975 (Bid #S-11-19) between the City of Cheyenne 
and Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, for the Smalley Park G reenway Reconstruction project. 
(Greenway Maintenance funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6975)  
 
 Consideration of Bid #S -17-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, and Ameri -
Tech HVAC Services, Cheyenne, for the HVAC and Mechanical Sy stems Maintenance Project 
(Civic Center, Fleet Maintenance, General Fund, Ice & Events, and Solid Waste funds) .  Upon 
inquiry, Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, reported two companies, Ameri -Tech HVAC 
Services and Long Technologies, attend ed the bid opening, however, only Ameri -Tech HVAC 
Services submitted a bid.  Ms. Nemecek advised the proposed contract includes a decrease in cost 
and noted a two -year term is common for these types of contracts.  Ms. Nemecek provided 
information relating to comments involving challenges in providing maintenance services due to 
the current condition of existing equipment and reported staff is looking into a potential Capital 
Equipment Program (CIP) for this type of service and maintenance.  Comments and concerns were 
voiced relating to the low number of bidders relating to this particular service.  Mr. White moved 
to approve in an amount not to exceed $255,354.00, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting 
“no”.  (#7020) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -28-19 for furnishing two (2) new 2019 -2020 15 passenger vans 
for the City of Cheyenne, Recreation Division (Reserves carryover). Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accepted bid submitted by Bob Ruwart Motors, Wheatland , WY, in an amount not to 
exceed $52,049.76). 
 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -14-19 for furnishing one (1) new four -door Utility Police 
Interceptor (staff vehicle) for Cheyenne Fire & Rescue (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid submitted by Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, WY, in an 
amount not to exceed $44,584.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -33-19 for furnishing 95 gallon and 65 gallon automated refuse 
carts for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried ( accepted bid submitted by Otto Environmental Systems,  North America, 
Charlotte, NC, in an amount not to exceed $145,106.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -34-19 for furnishing 1 ½ cubic yard capacity steel Sanitation 
refuse containers with covers for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid by Kois Bros Equipment Company,  
Commerce City, CO, in an amount not to exceed $88,800.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-31-19 for furnishing two (2) new 2019-2020 Solid Waste transfer 
trailers, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division  (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-32-19 for furnishing one (1) new 2019 -2020 ½ ton, 4 door crew 
cab, full size pickup truck, 4x4, 6 ½ foot box, with Fleet work package, with plow, for the City of 
Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -29-19 for furnishing two (2) new cab & chassi s with rear load 
sanitation refuse collection bodies, 25 cubic yard with tippers, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation 
Division (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-30-19 for furnishing three (3) new 2019 -2020 twin-screw diesel 
powered cab & chassis, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund)  – 
referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-36-19 for furnishing battery powered extrication spreaders, cutter, 
and rams, for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire and Rescue D epartment (General Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -18-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, and Simon 
Contractors, Cheyenne, WY, for the 2019-2020 Miscellaneous Street Repairs Project (2015-2018 
1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -19-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, and 
Mechanical Systems, Inc., Cheyenne, W Y, for the Southwest/Grandview Storm Sewer 
Improvements Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Reappointments of Kimberley Withers to the Cheyenne/Laramie County Economic 
Development JPB; Gay Van Horn, Danny Glick, Rick Robinson, Elizabeth Lance and Kiersti 
  
Willms to the Laram ie County Community Juvenile Services JPB; Bruce Heimbuck to the 
Downtown Development Authority; and Scott Thomas to the Public Transit Advisory Board.  Mr. 
Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointments).  
 
 Appointment of Craig Kerrigan to the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority 
Board.   Upon inquiry, Mayor Orr confirmed the proposed appointment is an “at -large” position.  
Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr  who did not vote  (mayoral 
appointment).   
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 8, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance 
of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for a portion of Tract 119, 
all of Tract 120 and portions of Tracts 135 and 136, and adjacent vacated rights-of-way, Sunnyside 
Addition, Fourth Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of the intersection of Fillmore 
Avenue and Charles Street).   
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 8, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to determine whether compliance 
of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for the three hundred 
(300’) wide right-of-way of U.S. Highway No. 30, situated in a portion of Sections 26, 27, and 34, 
Township 14N, Range 66W of the 6th PM, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Cleveland 
Avenue and Hayes Avenue).    
 
Announcement was made that two Calcuttas, benefitting Cheyenne area charities, will be 
held as follows:  Thursday, July 18, 2019 beginning at 7:00 p.m. at the Redwood Lounge, 2105 
East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the 2019 Cheyenne Frontier Days 
Wild Horse Races, and Saturd ay, July 27, 2019 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in the Cowboy Bistro 
located beside the Rodeo Committee Cabin, Frontier Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming (10% of proceeds 
to bona fide charities). 
  
 Under other business:  
 
 Jamie Davidson requested consideration on rehabilitation efforts within her neighborhood 
(Fremont and 11th Streets) due to drainage issues causing personal property damage and reported 
flooding at her residence.  Ms. Davidson advised it is her understanding from contact with the City 
Engineer’s office, flooding remediation hasn’t occurred  due to lack of  funding.  Anthony 
Gonzales, area resident, provided comments regarding  on-going flooding and property damage 
concerns.  Upon inquiry, Amy Allen, City Engineer, provided information relating to a recent visit 
to the area of concern, lack of available funding and efforts to minimize citywide drainage issues 
resulting from previous developments.  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, explained upon 
inquiry that drainage projects are eligible for 5 th Penny funding, however, the amount that is 
allowed is usually used for grant funding matches.   Ms. Allen explained current UDC and City 
Code requirements are being reviewed for potential amendments to address drainage issues and 
  
support of enforcement.  Discussion included citywide drainage complaints /issues, lack of 
available funding, current development standards, storm water drainage, and FEMA funding and 
drainage master plans.  
 
 Upon inquiry, Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, provided information relating to 
recent crime data published relating to big box stores, specifically both local Walmart stores, 
noting shoplifting raises the City’s overall crime theft rates.   
 
 Donn Edmunds requested restricting heavy truck traffic on Pershing Blvd. relating to the 
construction on the Christensen Road Overpass Project.   
 
 Kris Jones, City Clerk, requested, due to timeliness involving  an application for a resort 
liquor license and per Mayor Orr’s permission, the following item be announced: Announcement 
of a Public Hearing to be held on July 8, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil 
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a resort liquor license application filed with the  City Clerk’s 
Office for Driftwood Special Servicing, LLC d/b/a Red Lion Hotel Cheyenne & Conference 
Center, 2014 Fox Farm Rd., Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:59 p.m.        
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 2, 2019 
  