MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-07-08 | CLIP_ID: 716 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 716

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 8, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott Roybal, 
Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Absent: Dr. Mark Rinne.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The 
pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Esquibel, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Luna and Mr. White, agenda item #18 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna 
moved to approve remaining Consent Agenda items, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. Shanor clarified 
he did not vote as he has a conflict with agenda item #16 .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Shanor who did not vote.  
 
 [CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 24, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Roybal moved to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by  Mr. Case.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.    
 
Mayor Orr opened a Public Hearing  to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for a portion of Tract 119, all of Tract 
120 and portions of Tracts 135 and 136, and adjacent vacated rights-of-way, Sunnyside Addition, 
Fourth Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of the intersection of Fillmore Avenue 
and Charles Street).  Tawn Hillenbrand, Planning and Development, advised the annexation 
request was submitted by the landowner,  provided information on the property  and reviewed 
requirements of and compliance with annexation conditions contained in state statutes. She advised 
the annexation ordinance has been delayed and will appear on the council agenda at a later date.  
Upon inquiry, Ms. Hillenbrand advised the land is currently developed with a church and this will 
allow development of the proposed annexation portion of the property.  She further noted  she is 
unaware of a future plan to develop the property, advising, however, upon annexation, it could be 
developed.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, 
Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a Public Hearing  to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for the three hund red foot (300’) wide 
right-of-way of U.S. Highway No. 30, situated in a portion of Sections 26, 27, and 34, Township 
  
14N, Range 66W of the 6 th PM, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between Cleveland Avenue 
and Hayes Avenue ).  Tawn Hillenbrand, Planning and Development, advised the annexation 
request was submitted by the landowner,  provided information on the property  and reviewed 
requirements of and compliance with annexation conditions contained in state statutes.  Ms. 
Hillenbrand advised agend a item #14 is the affiliated annexation ordinance.   Charles Bloom , 
Planning and Development Director, explained upon inquiry , the purpose of the annexation is to 
clarify city and county boundaries, which will place law enforcement under one entity.  He further 
reported the need to be able to provide more efficient traffic control and clarification of emergency 
response.  Ms. Hillenbrand explained there are two different applicants for annexations.  Amy 
Allen, City Engineer, advised meetings were held with multiple agencies relating to traffic control 
along this stretch of Highway 30 and the annexation would allow City officers to patrol the area, 
noting the area is a safety concern.  Ms. Allen clarified the annexation is for WYDOT Right-of-
Way only.  Comment was made related to concern for future development in the area adding 
additional traffic.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearin g having 
been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a Public Hearing for a resort liquor license application filed with the 
City Clerk’s Office for Driftwood Special Servicing LLC d/b/a Red Lion Hotel Cheyenne & 
Conference Center, 204 Fox Farm Rd., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Billie Addleman, Hirst Applegate, 
LLP, advised he was present on behalf of the applicant to answer any questions.   There being no 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
  
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (“UDC”), replacing UDC Section 5.8.1 in response to the rapidly 
changing technology and regulatory environment for wireless communication facilities, including 
the deployment of new, smaller wireless communication facilities .  Charles Bloom, Planning & 
Development Director, advised a substitute ordinance dated 7/8/19 was emailed to members of the 
governing body which contains final revisions and includes amendments made at the 7/2/19 Public 
Services Committee meeting. Mr. Bloom reported Charter and Verizon are in agreement with the 
proposed revisions.  He explained one of the changes is reducing standalone towers  heights from 
50 ft. to 40 ft.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by substitute dated 
7/8/19, seconded by Mr. Roybal.   Kris Jones , City Clerk,  confirmed the proposed substitute 
contains all amendments made at Public Services Committee.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Mr. Shanor explained that in his opinion, this 
is one of the most important economic development and quality of life ordinances that has been 
approved and it is possible due to collaboration of entities.  Mr. Shanor further advised an industry 
partner raised issues that weren’t addressed in the proposed substitute, however, he believes those 
can potentially be addressed in the future.  Main motion  as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (It was noticed on August 22, 2019 that the main motion 
to approve on third and final reading was inadvertently not included in the ori ginal minutes file.  
The minutes have been updated to reflect the addition of the motion) (#4278) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 2.04.160(D), Readings -Committee 
Reports-Amendments, of Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and  
Personnel, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Reporting for Finance Committee, 
  
Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6, 1.1.7, and 2.4.1 of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 6.5.4.c to modify allowances for 
Electronic Message Centers – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING –  Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development - 
Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 
5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development District of the Unified Development Code, amending 
Ordinance No. 2975 and Ordinance No. 3297 by modifying certain standards of the adopted 
district, Planned Unit Development (PUD), for all of Block 596 and the westerly 40 feet of the 
vacated right of way of House Avenue between East 7th and 8th Streets, Original City of  
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of I -180 between 7th and 8th Streets ) – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Vacating all portions of non -vacated: alley, adjoining 
half-street right of way of 12th Street,  and adjoining half-street right of way of Holmes Avenue; 
of Block 168, Interior Heights, 2nd Filing; and all of Center Drive west of the west line of Harmony 
Center 2nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to 
West College Drive, west of Walterscheid Boulevard)  – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 1.4.4 and 5.1. 4 of the UDC to clarify 
definitions for entertainment and recreation land uses; to create a new entertainment and recreation 
– Other Land Use; and to allow these uses in various zoning districts as administrative, conditional 
or principal permitted uses – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the three 
hundred foot (300’) wide right-of-way of U.S. Highway No. 30, situated in a portion of Sections 
26, 27 and 34, Town ship 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, 
(located between Cleveland Avenue and Hayes Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Christensen Park, situated in a portion of the SW¼ NE¼, Section 36, Township 14 North, Range 
67 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the 
southwest corner of Talbot Court and Cribbon Avenue) (Postponed from 06-24-19).  Trey Rinne, 
AVI, agent for the applicant, advised he was available to answer any questions.  Mr. Shanor moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present.  (#5999) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for federal funding through the Transportation Alternatives Program administered by the 
  
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of constructing a multi -use path for 
pedestrians and bicycles at Lions Park and Frontier Park .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6000) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Repealing Resolution No. 5835, as amended, and Resolution No. 5942, 
both pertaining to the expedient redevelopment of the building located at 1602 Capitol Ave nue, 
commonly referred to as the Historic Hynds Building .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6001) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Naming the future Municipal Courthouse in honor of Judge Joseph M. 
Carey.  Stephanie Lowe, on behalf of the Historic Preservation Board, advised she was available 
to answer questions.  Comments were made related to Carey Avenue and Carey Jr. High that were 
previously named after Judge Carey and acknowledgement was given to other  individuals that 
have made contributions to the community.  Mr. White, a co-sponsor of the resolution, advised the 
building at this location has always been known as the Carey Building and that Judge Carey was 
a prominent community figure and had held the offices of Municipal Justice of the Peace, governor 
and mayor. Ms. Lowe provided information on the Carey Block and the first and only building at 
that location. She provided further information on the naming of Carey Jr. High and explained the 
Historic Preservation Board  felt it was important to continue with the  Carey name at the new 
building since the prior building has been demolished.  Mr. Shanor moved to adopt, seconded by 
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the 
exception of Mr. Esquibel voting “no”. (#6002) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting a Comprehensive Open Data Policy as is Practical – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION –  Whereby the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne authorizes a 
special Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Election to be held October 16, 2019 
as provided by Wyo. Stat. §15-9-217 (5) which, upon affirmative majority vote of the Qualified 
Voters within the District, will authorize a Special Assessment of Twenty (20) Mills upon real 
property within the District, excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, for 
a period of four (4) years – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and  
Laramie County to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College 
and for an area of Laramie County immediately adjacent to the City  (Revenue to City).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7023) 
 
[CA] Office Rental Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and The Friends of the Botanic 
Gardens Foundation (Revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7024) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne  and Semple Brown 
Design, PC, Denver, CO, for the Civic Center Conceptual Design Project (2015 -2018 1% Sales 
Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7025) 
 
  
[CA] Land Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Victory Real Estate 
Management LLC, for the purchase of real property described as a portion of Lot 1, Block 1, P.A.S. 
Subdivision, City  of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, for the appraised value of 
$329,630.00 for economic development purposes (General Fund Reserves) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
  
[CA] Memorandum of Agreement between the City of Cheyenne  and Preserve Historic 
Wyoming, a Wyoming Nonprofit Organization, to remediate hazardous substances to renovate the 
building located at 1605 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in an amount not to exceed 
$384,000.00. (Brownfield’s Revolving Loan Fund Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-31-19 for furnishing two (2) new 2019-2020 Solid Waste transfer 
trailers, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division  (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (accepted bid by Ameri-Tech Equipment Company, Casper, WY  in an amount 
not to exceed $196,400.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-32-19 for furnishing one (1) new 2019 -2020 ½ ton, 4 door crew 
cab, full size pickup truck, 4x4, 6 ½ foot box, with Fleet work package, with plow, for the City of 
Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid by Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, WY in an amount not to exceed $39,846.00).   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -29-19 for furnishing two (2) new cab & chassis with rear load 
sanitation refuse collection bodies, 25 cubic yard with tippers, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation 
Division (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid by Peterbilt of 
Wyoming, Cheyenne, WY in an amount not to exceed $303,904.00).   
 
 Consideration of Bid #E-30-19 for furnishing three (3) new 2019 -2020 twin-screw diesel 
powered cab & chassis, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund).  Vicki 
Nemecek, Public Works  Director, reported she sent an email to the governing body  with the 
recommendation to accept the bid from Floyd’s Truck Center and the email included minutes from 
2 prior meetings  containing additional bid process information from May and July 2018 .  Ms. 
Nemecek also advised of an additional email sent to the governing body in May 2018 which 
highlighted her thoughts relating to the bidding process that included information on lowest price, 
bid specifications, contact representative  and necessity to be consistent . Upon inquiry, Ms. 
Nemecek clarified that although Peterbilt of Wyoming provided a higher trade-in amount, Floyd’s 
Truck Center still maintained the lowest bid. Upon inquiry, TJ Barttelbort, Purchasing Manager, 
advised he did not receive an explanation from Tri -State Truck & Equipment regarding not 
providing trade-in amounts.  Ms. Nemecek requested the bid be amended to retain trade-in #5790 
for the purpose of recycling, adjusting the total bid price to $391,959.00 . James Balzer, Peterbilt 
of Wyoming, advised he was available for questions and provided  information on their trade -in 
amounts and additional information relating to their bid.  Mr. White moved to accept the bid from 
Floyd’s Truck Center in an amount not to exceed $357,989.00, seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. White 
moved to amend by  removing trade-in #5790 increasing the total amount not to exceed 
$391,959.00, seconded by Mr. Case.  Ms. Nemecek explained the Public Works Department would 
like to keep the trade-in tractor due to recent changes involving the City’s ability to outsource 
  
recycling services.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present.  Comments were made on the bid process and relying on staff for the best interest of the 
city.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.   
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-36-19 for furnishing battery powered extrication spreaders, cutter, 
and rams, for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire and Rescue D epartment (General Fund) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid by Fired Up Rescue, Wheat land, WY in an 
amount not to exceed $47,408.00).   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -18-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, and Simon 
Contractors, Cheyenne, WY, for the 2019-2020 Miscellaneous Street Repairs Project (2015-2018 
1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid by  Simon Contractors, 
Cheyenne, WY in an amount not to exceed $1,094,951.15).  (#7026) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -19-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne, and 
Mechanical Systems, Inc., Cheyenne, W Y, for the Southwest/Grandview Storm Sewer 
Improvements Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted 
bid by  Mechanical Systems, Inc., Cheyenne, WY in an amount not to exceed $179,229.00). 
(#7027)   
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase signaling infrastructure power line relocations from the Union 
Pacific Railroad Company (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Resort liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Drift wood Special 
Servicing LLC d/b/a Red Lion Hotel Cheyenne & Conference Center, 204 Fox Farm Rd., 
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. White reported that this item was reviewed under other items for the 
agenda at the July 1, 2019 Finance Committee meeting, therefore, pr ovisions of Title 2 of City 
Code have been met.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.   
 
[CA] Request to expand seating area for consumption relating to retail liquor license held by Alf 
in Wyoming Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Alf’s Pub & Package Liquors, 1622 E. 19 th St., Cheyenne, 
Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Under other business:  
 
 Frank Cole voiced support for naming the new Municipal Courthouse after Judge Joseph 
M. Carey . Mr. Cole  provided history relating to the Carey family including community 
contributions and properties owned within Cheyenne and Laramie County  including sections of 
Eastridge, the Carey Dairy and land south of Dell Range Blvd.    
 
Mr. Laybourn voiced concern relating to aspects of agenda item #17 (Resolution repealing 
Resolution No. 5835, as amended, and Resolution No. 5942, both pertaining to the expedient 
redevelopment of the building located at 1602 Capitol Avenu e, commonly referred to as the 
Historic Hynds Building) and provided history regarding failed attempts to redevelop the Historic 
Hynds Building and the “ Hole” property.  He requested information relating to the H2 Proposal 
  
which was to have produced a fina l report.  Mr. Laybourn suggested prioritizing development of 
the Hynds and “Hole” properties.    
 
Mr. Laybourn provided copies and information related to the Strategic Downtown Action 
Plan and the “Deploy Bucket Brigade” program downtown during Cheyenne Frontier Days (CFD).  
He advised the  report was approved by Downtown Development Authority ( DDA) and is a 
working document.  Mr. Laybourn voiced concerns relating to the CFD parade route involving a 
series of issues with curb and gutte r in areas where people sit including exposed rebar.  He  
suggested correcting these issues and covering windows of vacant downtown properties.     
 
 Mr. Case stated he appreciates comments made relating to funds budgeted for the Historic 
Hynds Building (agenda item #17) and explained the purpose of recouping and redirecting the 
funding was to make up for a budget oversite relating to a previous air se rvice funding 
commitment.   
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:55 p.m.        
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 17, 2019 
  