MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-07-22 | CLIP_ID: 718 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 718

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 22, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case,  Bryan Cook , Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor  and Jeff White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The 
pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
 [CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 8, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Luna moved to approve payment of vouchers as presented, seconded by Mr. Case. Dr. 
Rinne declared a conflict and recused himself from discussion and voting.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne who didn’t vote. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 2.04.160(D), Readings-Committee 
Reports-Amendments, of Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and 
Personnel, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Reporting for Finance Committee, 
Mr. White moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. C ase.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4279) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6, 1.1.7, and 2.4.1 of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 6.5.4.c to modify allowances for 
Electronic Message Centers .  Reporting for  Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING –  Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development - 
Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 
5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development District of the Unified Development Code, amending 
Ordinance No. 2975 and Ordinance No. 3297 by modi fying certain standards of the adopted 
district, Planned Unit Development (PUD), for all of Block 596 and the westerly 40 feet of the 
vacated right of way of House Avenue between East 7th and 8th Streets, Original City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of  I-180 between 7th and 8th Streets ).  Dr. Rinne moved to 
  
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Vacating all portions of non -vacated: alley, adjoining 
half-street right of way of 12th Street, and adjoining half -street right of way of Holmes Avenue; 
of Block 168, Interior Heights, 2nd Filing; and all of Center Drive west of the west line of Harmony 
Center 2nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to 
West College Drive, west of Walterscheid Boulevard) .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 1.4.4 and 5.1.4 of the UDC to clarify 
definitions for entertainment and recreation land uses; to create a new entertainment and recreation 
– Other Land Use; and to allow these uses in various zoning districts as administrative, conditio nal 
or principal permitted uses .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
Cook.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by adding conditional uses to AG, AR, RR zones for 
Entertainment Out Door, Entertainment Venue, Entertainment Amusement and Recreation Other, 
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the three 
hundred foot (300’) wide right-of-way of U.S. Highway No. 30, situated in a portion of Sections 
26, 27 and 34, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, 
(located between Cleveland Avenue and Hayes Avenue).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 8.64, Smoking in Public Places, 
within Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – 
referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Adopting a Comprehensive Open Data Policy as is Practical .  Vicki 
Nemecek, Director of Public Works, advised the resolution and policy is a product of the StratOp 
action initiative plan Collect and Utilize Data.  She provided information on open data, affiliated 
software and confidentiality of sensitive records. Alessandra McCoy Fakelman, Deputy City 
Attorney, explained this is  separate from the Wyoming Public Records Act and further advised 
that currently certain data  must be requested from City departments.  She reported that as  this 
initiative progresses, citizens will be able to  search d ata from a n online portal, noting certain  
records requests will still need to be requested through a public records request.  Dr. Rinne moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Case.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend Exhibit A by adding a Section 7 to 
read as follows: “Section 7: Budget (a) Council’s approval of this policy does not include funding.  
Specific projects and budgeting will be discussed at a later date”, seconded by Mr.  Case.  Motion 
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6003) 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION –  Whereby the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne authorizes a 
special Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Election to be held October 16, 2019 
as provided by Wyo. Stat. §15-9-217 (5) which, upon affirmative majority vote of the Qualified 
Voters within the District, will authorize a Special Assessment of Twenty (20) Mills upon real 
property within the District, excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, for 
a period of four (4) years.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6004) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Harmony Valley, First Filing, a plat of a portion of the S1/2 of Section 7 and the SE1/4 NE1/4 of 
Section 7, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, (located north of and 
adjacent to W. College Drive, west of Walterscheid Boulevard) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 Land Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Victory Real Estate 
Management LLC, for the purchase of real property described as a portion of Lot 1, Block 1, P.A.S. 
Subdivision, City of Che yenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, for the appraised value of 
$329,630.00 for economic development purposes (General Fund Reserves) . Alessandra McCoy 
Fakelman, Deputy City Attorney, advised staff has put together presentations for council to discuss 
some of the issues including access, Ice and Events Center signage and a proposed substitute.  She 
discussed the issue relating to direct access outside of a blanket access agreement that was granted 
in 2007 when the Ice and Events Center was purchased, explaining the City is requesting an access 
easement that will better serve the Ice and Events Center and that access was never granted to the 
City as it was between  the H itching Post and Ice and Events Center. She provided further 
information on the Ice and Events Center sign that has not changed as the City doesn’t own the 
property where the sign is located which causes UDC issues that can be addressed with an access 
agreement.  Ms. McCoy Fakelman advised the proposed substitute will clear up clerical errors and 
contains edits including new legal description , moving of the I ce and Events Center sign and 
clarifies other concerns that arose  during negotiations.  Brendan Ames, Chief Economic 
Development Officer, explained the agreement addresses ownership, parking, proper lighting and 
improvements and will provide flexibility for the City to ensure future success of the property.   
Mr. Ames provided information on a future replat of the property, the property being eligible for 
the Brownfields Revolving Loan Fund, land adjacent to the property and economic impact related 
to developing the la nd.  He reviewed similar land purchase scenarios in the state  of which all 
include vacated property purchased by City entities and advised letters of intent from interested 
developers for the property have been submitted.  Upon inquiry, Bruce Trembath, Chief Build ing 
Official, advised he has been in contact with various contractors related to efforts for stabilizing 
the property including parameter fencing, securing buildings and capping drainage for buildings 5 
and 6 and provided cost estimates for each.  He explained upon further inquiry fencing will be 
secured with posts driven into the ground.  Teresa Moore, Director of Community Recreation and 
Events, provided information on developing the land, plans for the area including the Missile Drive 
Corridor plan, need to create a Cheyenne gateway, importance of the project, private investments 
for similar projects, possibility of Greenway connectivity, history of adjacent land and its current 
use and existing concerns.  Charles Bloom, Director of Planning and Development, reported staff 
has talked to the EPA regarding the Brownfields Revolving Loan and provided info on matching 
grant funds and eligibility for the revolving loan fund to include all properties on the site.  Upon 
  
inquiry, Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, explained a separate fund would be required to be used 
only for purchasing property.  Mr. Bloom, upon  inquiry, advised an EPA grant is different than  
the revolving loan fund and only states, communities and tribes are eligible to apply for the grants 
and provided information on grant deadlines. Casey Palma, Steil Surveying, agent for the owner, 
reviewed project aspects including price of property, the importance of access, need to update 
previous access agreements, current signage (which is currently illegal) and negotiation with 
owner for a lien which will go bac k to the City when property sells for  updates. He advised the 
owner has applied to the revolving loan fund to abate the front 2 buildings.  Upon inquiry regarding 
the Hitching Post sign, Mr. Palma explained he has encouraged the owner to be amendable and 
provided different options for the sign.  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$329,630.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Dr. 
Rinne.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   Upon 
inquiry, Ms. Lockman provided information on available reserves which includes the second floor 
of the new Municipal Court building and provided information on the Capital Improvement plan.  
Further discussion continued and includ ed: appraised value of Parcel A, costs affiliated with 
remediations needed for the property, paying more than appraised value of the property and 
importance of remediating the property.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend section 7  (c) by replacing 
existing language with: “Seller agrees to contribute $750,000 toward any remediation of Parcel A. 
Seller agrees to a $750,000 promis sory note  and mortgage in favor of the Buyer which will be 
placed on Parcel B currently owned by Seller and not conveyed to Buyer by this agreement. Said 
promissory note and mortgage to be effective immediately upon Seller’s sale of Parcel B.  Other 
terms and conditions of promissory note and mo rtgage to be negotiated with Seller by the City 
Attorney’s office”, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Palma  commented on the amendment and the 
current owner’s financial position. Further comments were made related to abatement estimates 
that were obtained through an RFP process by the current owner .  Upon inquiry, Ms. McCoy 
Fakelman advised the City has not gone out for RFP’s or RFQ’s.  Mr. Palma explained attachment 
C-1 is part of the owner’s 2018 RFP.  Discussion continued. Topics included: costs affiliated with 
remediation and demolition, grant opportunities and letters of intent.  Mr. Shanor raised a point of 
order relating to a question posed regarding the owner’s interest in moving forward with the sale 
agreement after the amendment.  Mr. Palma advised remediations could possibly be paid for by 
alternative mechanisms.  Mayor Orr and Ms. McCoy Fakelman provided information on the sale 
agreement and condemnation proceedings that are currently stayed before the Building Code 
Board of Appeals pending the decision on this land purchase tonight.  Motion to amend carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mayor Orr an d Mr. 
Laybourn voting “no”.  Ms. Lockman explained upon inquiry the dollar amount available  in 
reserves includes purchase price of th is property.  Further comments included: s upport for the 
amendment, continued negotiations with Seller and appreciation for everyone who has been 
involved with the agreement.  Main motion as twice amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Luna voting “no”. (#7032) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Agreement between the City of Cheyenne  and Preserve Historic 
Wyoming, a Wyoming Nonprofit Organization, to remediate hazardous substances to renovate the 
building located at 1605 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in an amount not to exceed 
$384,000.00.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7033) 
 
  
[CA] Grant agreement between Memorial Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional 
Medical Center and the Office of Youth Alternatives (CRMC Grant) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives and the Laramie County 
Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Boa rd (Wyo. Dept. of Family Services Grant) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant agreement between Memorial Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional 
Medical Center and the City of Cheyenne Police Department for the implementation of a program 
to identify health priorities that will benefit the community and aligns with community needs 
assessment (CRMC Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Real Property Lease No. 8 -09466 between the State of Wyoming, Department of 
Administration & Information, General Services Division, and the City of Cheyenne, for the lease 
of parking spaces located at the Cox Parking Structure to be used by the State (Revenue to the 
City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Servic es Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Burns and 
McDonnell, Bloomington, MN, for the Landfill Front Entrance and Scale House Project (Solid 
Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 for school resource officers for the 2019 -
2020 school year and summer school 2020 (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for 
animal control and animal shelter services (Economic Support funds) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Human Services Agreement with United Way of Laramie County to provide services to 
create the Human Service Advisory Committee (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Human Services Agreement with United Way of Laramie County to provide services to 
various community programs (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness, Alcohol Receiving Center, to 
provide alcohol and drug detoxification services to individuals ( General Fund) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Ch eyenne Housing Authority to provide 
supportive senior services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor to provide a safe and secure 
environment to families who have been affected by abuse (General Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Lease agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Airport Board  for land 
to be used for the Weed and Pest Division (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Lease agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Airport Board for land 
to be used for Community Recreation and Events softball and baseball fields (2019-2022 1% Sales 
Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Lease agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Airport Board for land 
to be used for Street and Alley and Compost operations (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department 
and Wilson & Company, Inc., Denver, CO,  for the design of the Reed Avenue Rail Corridor 
Design Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
   
 [CA] Consideration to purchase signaling infrastructure power line relocations from the Union 
Pacific Railroad Company.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  
   
[CA] Request to expand seating area for consumption relating to retail liquor license held by Alf 
in Wyoming Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Alf’s Pub & Package Liquors, 1622 E. 19 th St., Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Motion (Per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Appointment of Ashley Miller as Assistant City Treasurer (Board of Public Utilities) for 
the City of Cheyenne .  Mayor Orr congr atulated Randy Hays on his retirement  and provided 
history on the Assistant City Treasurer appointment.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by 
Mr. Shanor.  Further appreciation expressed for Mr. Hays.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral 
appointment).  
 
Appointment of Breck Collier to the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority Board.  
Mr. Shanor moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointment).  
 
There being no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:09 p.m.        
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
  
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 2, 2019 
  