MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-08-12 | CLIP_ID: 720 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 720

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 12, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Pete Laybourn,  Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott 
Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Absent: Ken Esquibel.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  
The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Orr and Kris Jones, City Clerk, explained 
that due to a clerical error, agenda items #18 and #19 were inadvertently referred to the Finance 
Committee and are instead refer red to the Public Services Committee.  Mr. Luna moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present.    
 
 [CA] Minutes from  Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 22, 2019 .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mr. Luna moved  to approve payment of vouche rs as presented, seconded by Mr. Case.   
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6, 1.1.7, and 2.4 .1 of the 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 6.5.4.c to modify allowances for 
Electronic Message Centers .  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motio n carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Cook and Dr. Rinne voting 
“no”. (#4280) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING –  Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development - 
Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 
5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development District of the Unified Development Code, amending 
Ordinance No. 2975 and Ordinance No. 3297 by modifying certain standards of the adopted 
district, Planned Unit Deve lopment (PUD), for all of Block 596 and the westerly 40 feet of the 
vacated right of way of House Avenue between East 7th and 8th Streets, Original City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located east of I -180 between 7th and 8th Streets ).  Dr. Rinne moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#4281)  
 
  
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Vacating all portions of non -vacated: alley, adjoining 
half-street right of way of 12th Street,  and adjoining half-street right of way of Holmes Avenue; 
of Block 168, Interior Heights, 2nd Filing; and all of Center Drive west of the west line of Harmony 
Center 2nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of and adjacent to 
West College Drive, west of Walterscheid Boulevard).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#4282) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to S ections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 1.4.4 and 5.1.4 of the UDC to clarify 
definitions for entertainment and recreation land uses; to create a new entertainment and recreation 
– Other Land Use; and to allow these uses in various zoning districts as administrative, conditional 
or principal permitted uses.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by 
Mr. Case. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4283) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the three 
hundred foot (300’) wide right-of-way of U.S. Highway No. 30, situated in a portion of Sections 
26, 27 and 34, Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, 
(located between Cleveland Avenue and Hayes Avenue).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#4284)   
 
           ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 8.64, Smoking in Public Places, 
within Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
Amy Spieker, Cheyenne Regional Medical Center, provided statistical information relating to the 
harmful effects of smoking and supported smoke free indoor environments in public places.  Olivia 
Hardy, Jr. High student, reported increased usage of vaping devices with underage students and 
voiced support for banning use in public places.  Responding  to Mayor Orr, Ms. Hardy reported 
she would support changing the age a person is legally able to purchase vaping or smoking 
products to 21 years of age.  R egina Hughes and Amanda Rieke, Straight Line Vapors, voiced 
support for stricter enforcement relating  to underage smoking/vaping violators and provided 
information relating to the positives of vaping which assist smokers to quit  and air quality. They 
further commented on the positive effects vaping has had on regular cigarette smokers supporting 
them to q uit.  B rittney Wardle, Cheyenne Regional Medical Center, reported studies show that 
vaping devices emit chemicals into the air exposing non -users which has been associated to 
potential increases in asthma diagnosis.  David A llen, Tobacco Compliance Officer , Cheyenne 
Police Department, advised the department supports the proposed amendment.  J ason Mintzer, 
American Cancer Society Director, reported studies show vaping devices can include up to 31 
ingredients that produce/contain chemicals (some potential cancer causing that are emitted into the 
air whether or not they contain nicotine).  Mr. Mintzer requested consideration to include in the 
proposed amendment: 1-Strengthen the definition of Electronic Smoking Device, 2-Include hotels 
and motels, 3-Include private residences which are licensed child care, adult day care, pre-schools, 
or health facilities and stated he has started a p etition supporting those changes.  Upon inquiry, 
Mr. Mintzer confirmed he would support enforcement when the d evice is being “carried” and 
lighted or heated.  Mike Morrison, American Heart Association, voiced support and commented 
  
on exposure to secondhand inhalation.   M arguerite Herman voiced support, reported increased 
use among high school users, and reiterated the addictiveness of nicotine.  Krysta Reeve, Straight 
Line Vapors, provided information regarding requiring product labeling and voiced opposition to 
the amendment.  Cheyenne Kise voiced opposition stating vaping products assisted her father in 
quitting nicotine products.  Baily Early, Jr. High student, advised that changing the age to 21 years 
would not necessarily keep youth from obtaining the devices as older friends and siblings purchase 
and provide them to minors.  Dr. Phyllis Sherrard, Cheyenne Reg ional Medical Center, provided 
information regarding the prevention needs assessment for Laramie County and advised teen/youth 
vaping device use has increased by approximately 32%.  Patty Reisland, Mayor’s Council for 
People with D isabilities, voiced suppo rt for the ordinance.  Nick Vaugh , P oder Academy 
Secondary S chool Principle, reported nicotine addiction involving vaping devices is on the 
increase among youth at the school.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Case. Mr. White moved to amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Case.  Comment was made 
related to medical necessity of prescription inhalers.  Motion to amend carried.   Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Shanor and Mayor Orr voting 
“no”.   Further comments were made relating to expressing caution in banning legal substances 
and infringing on rights and lack of substantiated health risks regarding harmful effects of 
electronic device usage.  Mr. White explained the purposed of the amendment is to include vaping 
devices, noting they were not in existence when the original smoking ban was approved.  
Discussion topics included:  Ordinance language, enforcement, secondhand risk health reduction 
and nicotine addiction.  Main motion a s amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Shanor and Mayor Orr voting “no”. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the south 
one hundred fifty feet (150’) of Tract 119, all of Tract 120, and those portions of Tracts 135 and 
136 north of the right-of-way for U.S. Hwy. No. 30, and all of vacated Cheyenne Street (60’), and 
the west ½ (25’) of vacated Fillmore Ave., adjacent to said tracts,  Sunnyside Addition Fourth 
Filing, situate in a portion of the SE1/4 SE1/4 of Section 27, Township 14N, Range 66W of the 6th 
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming.  (located south of the inte rsection of Fillmore Avenue and 
Charles Street -- referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 - Planned Development 
Regulating Plan, Section 2.4.1 - Zoning Text Amendment, and Section 5.6.2 - Planned Unit 
Development amendment, amending the Sweetgrass Planned Unit Development (PUD) 
Regulating Plan for 2,349.54 acre Sweetgrass PUD, City of Cheyenne, Laramie, County, 
Wyoming (located south of West College Drive and east of Avenue C)  -- referred to Public 
Services Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Submitting to the qualified property owners of real 
property within the boundaries of the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, excluding real property used exclusively for residentia l  purposes, at a 
Special Election on Wednesday, October 16, 2019, the following Question:  “Shall a Special 
Assessment of twenty (20) mills be levied upon the assessed value of real property within the 
boundaries of the Cheyenne Downtown Development Autho rity District, excluding real property 
used exclusively for residential purposes, for a period of four (4) years pursuant to the provisions 
  
of Wyo. Stat. §15 -9-217(b) for the purpose of (1) administrative costs; (2) landscaping or 
maintenance of public are as; (3) planning or management of development or improvement 
activities; (4) promotion of public events; (5) activities in support of business recruitment and 
development?” -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Harmony Valley, First Filing, a plat of a portion of the S1/2 of Section 7 and the SE1/4 NE1/4 of 
Section 7, T.13N., R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, (located north of and 
adjacent to W. College Drive, wes t of Walterscheid Boulevard).  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute and revised map dated August 
6, 2019, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to amend carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#6005) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the fiscal year 2019 budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16-4-112 & 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Acknowledging receipt of the Archer Trails Connector Plan  -- referred 
to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Acknowledging receipt of th e Parsley Boulevard Corridor Study -- 
referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Center Point Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a replat of Lots 1 through 7, Block 
1, inclusive Center Point Subdivision, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the 
intersection of Homestead Avenue and Eda Place) -- referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant agreement between Memorial Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional 
Medical Center and the Office of Youth Alternatives (CRMC Grant).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7038) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives and the Larami e County 
Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board (Wyo. Dept. of Family Services Grant). Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7039) 
 
[CA] Grant agreement between Memorial Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional 
Medical Center and the City of Cheyenne Police Department for the implementation of a program 
to identify health priorities that will benefit the community and aligns with community needs 
assessment (CRMC Grant). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$131,030.24). (#7040) 
 
[CA] Real Property Lease No. 8 -09466 between the State of Wyoming, Department of 
Administration & Information, General Services Division, and the City of Cheyenne, for the lease 
of parking spaces located at the Cox Parking Structure to be used by the State (Revenue to the 
City). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $88,560.00). (#7041) 
  
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Burns and 
McDonnell, Bloomington, MN, for th e Landfill Front Entrance and Scale House Project (Solid 
Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $197,500.00). 
(#7042) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 for school resource officers for the 2019-
2020 school year and summer school 2020 (Revenue to the City). Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7043) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for 
animal control and animal shelter services (Economic Support funds).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $612,500.00). (#7044) 
 
[CA] Human Services Agreement with United Way of Laramie Count y to provide services to 
create the Human Service Advisory Committee (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $10,500.00). (#7045) 
 
[CA] Human Services Agreement with United Way of Laramie County to provide  services to 
various community programs (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(in an amount not to exceed $500,00.00). (#7046)  
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness, Alcohol Receiving Center, to 
provide alc ohol and drug detoxification services to individuals ( General Fund ).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $114,955.00). (#7047) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide 
supportive senior services (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $50,000.00). (#7048) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor to provide a safe and secure 
environment to families who have been affected by ab use (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $17,500.00). (#7049)  
 
[CA] Lease agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Airport Board  for land 
to be used for the Weed and Pest Division (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $3,750.00). (#7050)  
 
[CA] Lease agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Airport Board for land 
to be used for Community Recreation and Events softball and baseball fields (2019-2022 1% Sales 
Tax). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $23,438.00). (#7051) 
 
[CA] Lease agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Airport Board for land 
to be used for Street and Alley and Compost operations (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $32,812.00). (#7052) 
  
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department 
and Wilson & Company , Inc., De nver, CO,  for the design of the Reed Avenue Rail Corridor 
Design Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $559,729.00). (#7053) 
   
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Cheyenne  Youth Alternatives, and 
Laramie County for Juvenile Probation Services. (revenue to the City)  -- referred to Finance 
Committee.  
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Airport Golf Club, Inc. -- referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant of access easement between the City of Cheyenne and Joseph M. Dyson for a 60 foot 
wide access easement across City -owned land in the NE1/4NE1/4 of Section 23, Township 13 
North, Range 68 West, 6th P.M., Laramie County Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and OpenCities, Inc., San 
Francisco, California, for the implementation of a Web -Enabled Content Management System 
which includes website re -design, development, maintenance and h osting of the City’s Website.  
(General Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
Yolanda Ronnau for Crime Victim Assistance Services .  (Wyoming Division of Victim Servi ces 
Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
Brenda Johnson for Crime Victim Assistance Services .  (Wyoming Division of Victim Services 
Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
Jessica A. Fritz  for Crime Victim Assistance Services.  (Wyoming Division of Victim Services 
Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Employment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and 
Leslie Burch  for Crime Victim Assistance Services.   (Wyoming Division of Victim Services 
Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Contract No. 6839 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corporation, Cheyenne, for final construction of the Civic Center Commons Project.  (1% Sales 
Tax 2019-2022) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-22-19 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and American 
Contracting of Wyoming, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the Cheyenne Regional Airport Fountain 
Partial Restoration Project. (Certified Local Government Grant, Wyoming Cultural Trust Fund 
  
Grant, Historic Preservation Board, and Leadership Cheyenne Class of 2016) -- referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Report of Community Facility Fees Fiscal Year 2018 -2019 -- referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
           Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held August 26, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council 
Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a proposed trade of real property 
owned by the  City of Cheyenne, described as Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Clear Creek Subdivision, 1st 
Filing, and Lot 1, Block 1, Clear Creek Subdivision, 2 nd Filing, Laramie  County, Wyoming, 
Consisting of 419.57 acres and having an appraised value of $1,004,000.00, to Mariah, LLC, for 
real property owned by Mariah, LLC, described as all of Sections 11 and 14, lying north of the 
Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way, Township 12 North, Range 70 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie 
County, Wyoming, consisting of 543.76 acres and having an appraised value of $1,060,000.00.   
 
           Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held August 26, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council 
Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a proposed sale of undeveloped public 
property described as a 1.46 acre portion of Lot 1, Block 1, Cheyenne Ice & Events Center, 1 st 
Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, with an appraised value of $293,0 00.00 to 
John J. Koehler.   
 
Under other business: 
 
Joe Dougherty commented on release of retainage to Reiman Corp. involving the Civic 
Center Commons Project with respect to cracking concrete and requested an update regarding a 
time frame for when the contractor would be repairing or replacing deficient concrete.   Mayor Orr 
advised the contractor was also selected for the Christensen Overpass Project which they are 
currently under construction.  Amy Allen, City Engineer, reported there is a punch list of items  
they will be returning to repair and advised they are currently working on coordinating that time 
frame.  Mr. Dougherty encouraged the governing body to follow up on completion of the 
contractor’s punch list.   
 
Mr. Laybourn  voiced concern relating to failing/cracking concrete throughout the city 
involving city streets and the Wyoming Department of Transportation in relation to state highways 
running through and around the city, use of tax payer funding for these projects and enc ouraged 
members of the governing body to set standards for the future to hold contractors accountable.    
 
 Mr. Case inquired as to the process for street sweeping.  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works 
Director, advised currently the department is understaffed and reported difficulty in recruiting 
employees due to limitations on the amount of wages that can be offered.  Ms. Nemecek provided 
a summary of the current process of street sweeping relating to commercial and residential areas, 
noting members of the public are welcome to make requests for services that would be placed on 
a waiting list.        
 
  
There bein g no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:16 p.m.        
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 23, 2019 
  
 