MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-10-14 | CLIP_ID: 725 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 725

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
October 14, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case,  Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn,  Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott 
Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Absent:  Bryan Cook.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  
The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.   Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.   
 
 [CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 23, 2019.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 No action was taken on the vouchers as presented.   Upon inquiry, Michael O’Donnell, 
City Attorney, advised the approval process for vouchers is currently being considered through a 
city code amendment which is outlined in the affiliated agenda item #9  on the  agenda.  Mr. 
O’Donnell reported that voucher reports for the following City Council meetings:  September 23rd, 
October 14 th, October 28 th, and November 12 th, will be approved as to “accuracy only” at the 
November 12, 2019 meeting of the governing body.  Discussion included approval process and 
understanding that approval in the current format is inconsequential.               
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis 
to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density for Lots 1 -9, Block 1, North Gate Village, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Yellowstone Road and 
Prairie Hills Drive).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  (#4288) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Vacating all of that 15’ alley right of way within Block 
13, Arp Addition, Fifth Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, (located north of 
and adjacent to Leisher Road, east of Cribbon Avenue).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present.  (#4289) 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, within 
Title 2, Administration and Personnel, and Chapter 3.04, Fiscal Provisions Generally, within Title 
3, Revenue and Finance, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Michael 
O’Donnell, City Attorney, advised the proposed amendment involves 2 sections of city code and 
explained in Chapter 2.04 the amendment proposes to reduce from $35,000.00 to $25,000.00  the 
authority of the executive branch through the Mayor to enter into contracts without governing body 
approval.  Mr. O’Donnell advised the amendment in Chapter 3.04 is to outline the approval process 
of the voucher report which will be to approve as to accuracy only.  He further explained contracts 
currently over $35,000.00 are required to come before the governing body for approval prior to 
being included on a voucher report and advised all other expenditures on the report have previously 
been approved.   Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, provided information relating to the reduction 
from $35,000.00 to $25,000.00 requiring governing body approval.  Ms. Lockman advised it 
currently takes approximately 4-6 hours of staff time for the Purchasing Manager to prep are an 
agenda item for governing body approval and would also impose a burden for multiple city 
department staff members relating to additional work that would be required.  She noted additional 
expenses related to the proposed amendment which includes bid advertising and the extension of 
the time it would require to obtain governing body approval.  Ms. Lockman confirmed the cities 
of Rock Springs, Laramie, Sheridan and Gillette currently follow the State Statute threshold of 
$35,000.00.  Discussion included inflation rate adjustments and the bidding process in relation to 
the current purchasing policy.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on 
second read ing, seconded by Mr. Luna .  Mr. White advised at the Finance Committee the 
recommendation was to amend by substitute dated 10-3-2019, however, since then a clerical error 
was corrected.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated 10 -10-2019, seconded by Mr. 
Shanor.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with 
the exception of Mayor Orr and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.   Further c omments were made 
regarding the ability of a Department Head actively lobbying for or against proposed legislation, 
inflation rates and  growth, current bidding process and dollar amount threshold relating to 
governing body approval. Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mayor Orr and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. 
 
 [CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for North Gate 
Village, 2nd Filing, a Replat of Lots 7-9, Block 1, North Gate Village, Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of Yellowstone Road and Prairie Hills Drive) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6019) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Inberg -Miller 
Engineers, Cheyenne, for engineering services for design of the 2020 Pavement Management 
Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( in an amount not  to 
exceed $81,600.00). (#7091) 
 
[CA] Grant A greement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and the  Wyoming 
Department of Health, Aging Division , to provide support services to person s 60 years or older 
under the Title III-B Program Grant for Fiscal Year 2020.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(revenue to the city). (#7092) 
 
  
[CA] Purchase and Sale Agreement between John J. LaFond and the City of Cheyenne  for the 
purchase of real property located at 3425 Christensen Road, in the City of Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming, for the appraised value of $455,000.00 (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred 
to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Spectrum Enterprise Service Agreement between the City of Cheyenne  and Charter 
Communications Operating, LLC – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Wyoming 
Association of Sheriffs and Chiefs of Police -Wyoming Department of Transportation -Highway 
Safety Grants Program for selective traffic enforcement grant – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7026 between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors, Cheyenne, for the 2019/2020 M iscellaneous Street Repair Project (2015 -2018 1% 
Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $573,892.25). 
(#7026) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6963 between the City of Cheyenne and AVI, P.C., 
Cheyenne, for engineering design and construction management services for the Allison Road and 
Cribbon Avenue Street Improvements Project to change the Time of Performance (2015-2018 1% 
Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -4-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and  S & S 
Builders, LLC, Cheyenne, for the Greenway Construction - Powderhouse Segment Project  (6th 
Penny Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in  an amount not to exceed 
$319,624.50). (#7093) 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase time clocks from Paycom, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma for the 
City’s payroll and timekeeping software program (Fleet Maintenance, Solid Waste and 1% Sales 
Tax Funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $40,350.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid Modification #1 to Purchase Order #18 -112666, Bid #E -25-18 
between the City of Cheyenne, and Floyd’s Truck Center, Inc., Cheyenne (Solid Waste Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Request for approval for winery permit holder GrapesNwine, LLC d/b/a Vintages, 309 
North American Road, Units 11 and 12, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to sell other wines obtained from 
the Wyoming Liquor Division for on -premise consumption pursuant to Wyo. Statute §12 -4-112 
(b) (ii) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Appointment of Thomas D. Cobb as City Engineer for the City of Cheyenne.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Mr. Case offered supporting comments of the proposed 
appointment.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the 
exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointment).   
 
  
 Appointments of Miles Henderson and Jason Bogstie to the Public Transit Advisory Board; 
Suzanne Meisner-Esquibel to the Housing and Community Development Advisory Council; Lori 
Schoene to the Cheyenne Housing Authority Board; and Phillip Regeski to the Planning 
Commission.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not 
vote (mayoral appointment) and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.   
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:23 p.m.  
 
       
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  October 24, 2019 