MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-10-28 | CLIP_ID: 726 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 726

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
October 28, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff Whi te.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The 
pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.   Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
 
 [CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 14, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 No action was taken on the vouchers as presented. James Johnson inquired about  a 
bottomline total voucher figure.  Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, advised the entire voucher listing 
is available for public viewing on the city’s website.  Michael O’Donnell, City Attorney, explained 
the new process is a motion to approve the accuracy of the voucher report that will be adopted 
with the new ordinance. 
 
 Mr. Case moved to suspend the rules to  allow for consideration to reconsider a contract 
modification to Contract #7026 with Simon Contractors for the 2019/2020 Miscellaneous Street 
Repair Project, seconded by Mr. Cook.   Mayor Orr advised the motion is not debatable.   Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting 
“no”.  Mr. Case advised that since approval at th e October 14, 2019 City Council meeting  of 
Modification #1 to Contract #7026 with Simon Contractors for the 2019/2020 M iscellaneous 
Street Repair Project, additional information has been received. Mr. Case moved to reconsider the 
contract modification, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mike O’Donnell, City Attorney, explained that 
since the contract modification was approved  2 week s ago, concerns have been received by 
citizens.  Tom Cobb, City Engineer, explained the reason for the modification change order is due 
to safety concerns related to oil in the overlay product on Nationway.  He re-evaluated the project 
due to impending weather concerns  and b ased on that , he looked at contingencies on moving 
forward next summer and possibly milling portions of the road.  During re -evaluation of the 
pavement, it was determined the pavement had healed itself and isn’t an immediate safety concern. 
Upon inquiry, Mr. O’Donnell confirmed that if project rehabilitation is needed next spring, a bid 
will be opened in the future.  Mr. Cobb explained rehabilitation will be  necessary as  current 
conditions won’t be long lasting  and advised his recommendation is the project can be delayed.  
  
Gay Woodhouse, Attorney representing STC Construction, provided concerns about the change 
order stating the original work was completed on Nationway in 2018 and in order to do more work 
in the area,  it should be considered a new project which would go out to bid.  Ms. Woodhouse 
provided a handout related to bid requirements in state statutes and reviewed the information. She 
explained particular products were increased in the change order without reasoning, work should 
be done under warranty since it appears the product failed and the additional work is almost double 
the original amount of the project.  Ms. Woodhouse spoke about the bid process and asked that the 
bid be  dismissed and re -opened before the star t of the project.  Gle nn Nicholson, Simon 
Contractors, explained the failure was not related to workmanship and advised it is not a warranty 
issue.  Mr. Nicholson explained  the City Engineer’s office approved a  1.5” mil overlay on the 
surface which is contrary to the normal 2 ” mil overlay.  He inquired as to how the  Civic Center 
Commons parking lot  project for the municipal building was awarded.  Comment was made on 
the chip seal program and maintaining and re-evaluating Nationway repairs.  Motion to reconsider 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   Mr. Case moved to postpone to 
11/12/19, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.         
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, within 
Title 2, Administration and Personnel, and Chapter 3.04, Fiscal Provisions Generally, within Title 
3, Revenue and Finance, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Joe 
Dougherty commented on proposed changes regarding the voucher approval process, opposing 
approval as to accuracy only.  Mayor Orr clarified members of the public are allowed to comment 
during public comment periods, however, she will not allow questioning staff from the podium.  
She advised members of the public can ask questions and staff will provide responses in writing.   
James Johnson supported voucher approval as to accuracy and advised the State takes a sample of 
transactions and tests them for accuracy.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Mr. White moved to amend Sections 
D (4) and D (6) by changing $25,000.00 to $35,000.00, seconded by Mr.  Laybourn.  Mr. Shanor 
advised he had previously provided information on the topic  to Mr. D ougherty in an email  and 
spoke against increasing the amount to $35,000.00.  It was requested consideration be given for 
not changing the bid threshold.  Comment was made that members of the governing bo dy have 
been informed that payment of vouchers can’t be disapproved  and the contract process is fiscal 
oversite.  Upon inquiry, Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, explained the process of placing an item 
on the agenda that the Purchasing Manager must follow.  Ms. Lockman advised it is estimated the 
proposed amendment would  add an estimated additional 26 items per year to the agenda  and 
explained procurement types determine if a contract is needed  and that purchase orders are only 
used in certain instances.  TJ Barttelbort, Purchasing Manager, explained the current process of 
purchasing a piece of equipment and advised that with the new proposal, a formal contract would 
be required.  Mr. O’Donnell clarified that a purchase order is a contract and tends to run below the 
dollar amount threshold.  Mr. Barttelbort provided additional information relating to equipment  
purchases and the bid process.   Upon request,  Kris Jones, City Clerk, read the  amendment 
language.  Discussion continued on the proposed process, relationship between City Council and 
the Mayor, the current legal opinion that the governing body does not have the authority to deny a 
voucher, contract approval process oversite and opposition of the amendment .  A point of order 
was raised by Mr. Laybourn relating to appropriate procedure on postponing an item on 3rd reading. 
  
Mayor ruled the point is well taken and requested  clarification on postponing before the 
amendment is voted on.  Mr. O’Donnel advised the amendment motion must be disposed of prior 
to a motion to postpone. Motion to amend failed due to a tie vote.  Voting “yes” – Mayor Orr, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr.  Roybal and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. 
Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.     Mr. Cook moved to postpone to11/12/2019, seconded by Mr. 
Case.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Bartelbort  advised he would provide additional information relating to 
clarification on professional services and contracts prior to the 11/4/2019 Finance Committee 
meeting.  Comments were made opposing the motion to postpone .  Motion to postpone carried.   
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. Esquibel and Mr. 
Roybal voting “no”.   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the fiscal year 2020 budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §16 -4-112 & 16-4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – To adopt the Certificate of Canvass and Declaration of Results of the 
Canvassing Board for the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Special Election 
held October 16, 2019 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] Purchase and Sale Agreement between John J. LaFond and the City of Cheyenne  for the 
purchase of real property located at 3425 Christensen Road, in the City of Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming, for the appraised value of $455,000.00.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(in an amount not to exceed $455,000.00). (#7098) 
 
[CA] Spectrum Enterprise Service Agreement between the City of Cheyenne  and Charter 
Communications Operating, LLC.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#7099) 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and Wyoming 
Association of Sheri ffs and Chiefs of Police -Wyoming Department of Transportation -Highway 
Safety Grants Program for selective traffic enforcement grant .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (revenue to the City). (#7100) 
 
[CA] 2019-2020 Collective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne 
Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters – referred to Finance 
Committee.   
 
[CA] Land Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Victory Real Estate 
Management, LLC, for the purchase of real property described as a portion of Lot 1, Block 1 , 
P.A.S. Subdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, for the appraised value of 
$329,630.00, for economic development purposes  (General Fund)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the 
Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for the purchase of a robot platform to support missions 
in explosive device detection, mitigation and remediation – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6963 between the City of Cheyenne and AVI, P.C., 
Cheyenne, for engineering design and construction management services for the Allison Road and 
Cribbon Avenue Street Improvements Project to change the Time of Performance (2015-2018 1% 
Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #6924 between the City of Cheyenne and TC 
Solutions, LLC, Cheyenne, for Owner’s Representative Services for the New Municipal Court 
Project (General Fund Reserves and Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 1 to Contract #6971 between the City of Cheyenne and Jerry 
Berggren for the Cheyenne Regional Airport Fountain Part ial Restoration Project to extend the 
deadline (SHPO 56-19-03 and CTF 210-19-S Grants Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7066 between the City of Cheyenne and American 
Contracting of Wyoming, Cheyenne, for t he Cheyenne Regional Airport Fountain Partial 
Restoration Project to extend the deadline and increase the contract amount (SHPO 56-19-03 and 
CTF 210-19-S Grant Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid Modification #1 to Purchase Order #18 -112666, Bid #E -25-18 
between the City of Cheyenne, and Floyd’s Truck Center, Inc., Cheyenne (Solid Waste Fund) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $30,000.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-3-20 for furnishing one (1) new 2019-2020 1-ton regular cab, full 
size pickup truck, 4x4 with 8 -foot box and Fleet work truck package for the Forestry Division 
(2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Request for approval for winery permit holder GrapesNwine, LLC d/b/a Vintages, 309 
North American Road, Units 11 and 12, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to sell other wines obtained from 
the Wyoming Liquor Division for on -premise consumption pursuant to Wyo. Statute §1 2-4-112 
(b) (ii).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Revenues – Ms. Jones, for clarification, explained it is her understanding that approval for 
accuracy only is the appropriate action.  Comments were made regarding approving accuracy of 
revenues.  Mr. O’Donnell advised he will research if approval to accuracy is the appropriate action.  
 
 Appointment of Brittany Winges to the Cheyenne Housing Authority Board.  Mr.  White 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes ” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointment).   
 
 Appointments of Alexis Arp, Ashen Doty, Nolan Gerdes, Henry Goertz, Leana Hartwig, 
Marie Lucas, Emily Lucero, Zoey Lundin, Zoey Martinez, Taylor Merriman-Fish, Lars Quinlivan, 
Jesse Quist, Silas Sommers, Elizabeth Stump and William Ward to the 2019-2020 Mayor’s Youth 
Council.   Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral 
appointment). 
  
 
Announcement that due to the Veteran’s Day holiday and City offices being closed on 
Monday, November 11, 2019, the regularly scheduled City Council meeti ng will instead be held 
on Tuesday, November 12, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in the Municipal Building, City Council Chambers, 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.   
 
 Announcement of Public Hearing to be held November 12, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a bar and grill liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Goalz DH Cheyenne, WY LLC d/b/a Dog Haus, 
3838 Atkin St., Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
 Under other business:  
 
 James Johnson commented on and provided reasons to review revenues.  Clarification was 
provided regarding the city’s purpose for open review of revenues. 
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:01 p.m.  
 
       
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
         
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  November 8, 2019 