MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-12-09 | CLIP_ID: 730 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 730

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 9, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case,  Bryan Cook,  Pete Laybourn,  Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott 
Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White .  Absent: K en Esquibel.  Also present: Kris Jones, City 
Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.   
 
 Mr. Laybourn expressed appreciation to Jason Sanchez, Community Recreation & Events 
Deputy Director and his crew for cleaning snow in the downtown area for the Christmas Parade.  
Justin Gorman, Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce , thanked Mr. Sanchez and his staff, 
Mayor Orr and other city staff for their assistance before and during the parade. Mr. Sanchez 
advised he has the privilege of working with a great group of people , noting e veryone came 
together with positive attitudes to assist.  Mr. Laybourn  complemented the Depot Plaza and 
Municipal Building seasonal decorations.   
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.   Mr. Luna moved to approve  Consent Agenda items , 
seconded by Mr . Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing bod y 
present.     
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 25, 2019.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meetings of the Governing Body on October 22, 2019 and November 
25, 2019.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development –
Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 
5.6.2 PUD – Planned Unit Development District of the Unified Development Code, amending 
Ordnance No. 3841 by modifying certain standards of the adopted district, Pla nned Unit 
Development (PUD), for Lots 1-3, Block 1, Lots 1-4, Block 2, (less that portion platted to Pointe 
Plaza, 2nd Filing), and Lots 1-2, Block 3, Pointe Plaza; a portion of Lot 2, Block 1, Pointe Plaza, 
2nd Filing; Lots 4-23, Block 1, Pointe Plaza, 3rd Filing; all of Point Plaza 4th Filing; and all of Pointe 
Plaza, 5th Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of 
Gardenia Drive and Powderhouse Road) Reporting for  Public Services Committee , Dr. Rinne  
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend 
by substitute dated 12/2/2019, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne explained testimony was heard 
  
at the Public Services Committee from Joe Patterson, Guardian Companies, and the original intent 
was to change the PUD just for Delta Dental and that the proposed substitute will change it back 
to its original intent.  Joe Patterson, Guardian Companies, explained the original amendment was 
specific for their lot and block and he supports the amendment.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body  present.  Main m otion as amended carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4291)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the 
amount of $34,137.07 pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16 -4-502.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6025) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the Interim Cheyenne Area Master Tra nsportation Plan .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6026) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Providing for the review and approval of a Federal Mineral Royalty 
Capital Construction Account Grant application to the Wyoming State Loan and Investment Board 
on behalf of the Governing Body for the South Cheyenne Water and Sewer District for two Sewer 
Collector Rehabilitation Projects – Southern Interceptor (Priority One) and Terry Road Sewer 
Collector (Priority Two) – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Grant for replacement of the playground in South Lions Park – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving Sanitary Sewer Service, by Outside User Sanitary Sewer 
Services Agreement, for Laramie County Fire District No. 2, for Tract 28, excep ting the East 40 
feet of said tract, Dell Range Addition, 2nd Filing, Section 22, Township 14 North, Range 66 West, 
of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Pursuant to W.S. §15-1-404 (b) certifying compliance with W.S. §15-1-
402, for a City-initiated annexation for portion of land generally located between Old Happy Jack 
Road and Happy Jack Road, and west of I -80 – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor 
– Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing a street name change from “Cribbon Ave nue” to “South 
Cribbon Avenue” for the portion of the street located between West Jefferson Road and Pinto 
Lane, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 Land Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Victory Real Estate 
Management, LLC, for the purchase of real property described as a portion of Lot 1, Block 1 , 
P.A.S. Subdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, for the appraised value of 
$329,630.00, for economic development purposes (General Fund) (Postponed from November 25, 
2019).  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
  
$329,630.00, seconded by Mr.  White.  Mr. Laybourn moved to postpone to December 19, 2019, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Michael O’Donnell, City Attorney, explained the fundamental purpose 
for the proposed purchase is to gain access to the property including the Ice & Events Center 
property which is critical.  He advised lack of access is holding up  purchase of the front tract of 
Hitching Post property.  Mr. O’Donnell explained  back buildings #3, 4 and 5 are included in the 
proposed purchase including the access at the request of the property seller.  He further explained 
the City doesn’t have to take ownership and commit to abatement and rehabilitation as they could 
sell the additional property and abatement cost would be the responsibility of a future purchaser.  
Mr. O’Donnell advised the reason for the motion to postpone is to allow for more time to acquire 
abatement and rehabilitation cost estimates which have been difficult to obtain.   Upon inquiry, 
Mr. O’Donnell  explained the Attorney’s office, along with additional City staff, are working 
diligently on obtaining estimates as timing is vital for adjacent projects.   Support was expressed 
for a future staff presentation outlining the City’s cost estimates and all potential options.  Brendan 
Ames, Chief Economic Development Officer, upon inquiry, explained an adjacent private property 
project is underway and the access point  to the property (proposed new hotel)  is critical.  He 
advised the interested developer will need appropriate access and without it, the project could be 
halted.  Comments were made in support of the project , importance of obtaining expenses 
associated with the project and how capital construction project expenditures can affect available 
funding for salaries , health insurance , etc.  Discussion followed related to the item being 
postponed, possibly reconsidered or being brought back as a new agenda item if it fails.  Kris 
Jones, City Clerk, and Mr. O’Donnell, upon inquiry, provided information on reconsideration and 
reintroduction of the item if it fails, explaining it can be reconsidered at the next council meeting 
or reintroduced at a later time . They  provided additional procedural information re lating to 
reconsideration and agenda item introduction processes.  Concern was expressed relating to  the 
message that may be interpreted by potential buyers by letting the item fail.  Motion to postpone 
failed.  Voting “yes” – Mayor Orr, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. 
Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor.  Discussion topics included: Time and effort 
involving the project  (one employee alone has worked in excess of 200 staff hours) , Attorney’s 
office acquiring requested project expenses expediently, i mportance of project and time frame 
relating to potential investors, appearance and perception of continu ed postponements vers us 
reintroduction, support and opposition were voiced regarding postponement, potential for 
additional development on the west side of town and opinion that the roadway should have been 
acquired when the Ice and Events Center was acquired . Ms. Jones, upon inquiry, explained only 
someone voting on the prevailing side would be eligible to make a motion to reconsider the item 
at the next council meeting.  Main motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Mayor Orr, Mr. Laybourn and 
Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Shanor.    
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Western Research and 
Development, Ltd, for 2020 Signal Upgrade Design Services (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Saddle Ridge, LLC, to 
outline the responsibilities for the donation of land and for the management of a multi -purpose 
non-motorized pedestrian and bicycle pathway, park and landscape amenities in a portion of 
Saddle Ridge, 7th and 9th Filings (Community Facilities Fees) – referred to Finance Committee.   
  
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and WJE, LLC, to outline 
the responsibilities for the donation of land and for the management of a multi -purpose non -
motorized pedestrian and bicycle pathway, park and landscape amenities in a portion of Saddle 
Ridge, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th and 13th Filings  (Community Facilities Fees) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Department of 
Transportation for the 2020 Epoxy Striping Project ( 2015-2018 1% Sales Tax ) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6986 between the City of Cheyenne and TC 
Solutions, LLC, for Owner’s  Representative Services for the Splash Pad Project – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -4-20 for furnishing one (1) John Deere 1575 Terrain Cut with 
Comfort Cab Commercial Front Mower (less mower deck), Rotary Broom, Snow Blower,  and 
Blade, for the City of Cheyenne, Facilities Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Sax) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
 Voucher Report. There were no comments or discussion related to the voucher report.  
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Christmas holiday schedule, the regularly 
scheduled City Council meeting on Monday, December 23, 2019 will instead be held on Thursday, 
December 19, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. in the Municipal Building, City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil 
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  
 
 Under other business:  
 
 Bill Gonzales, Street and Alle y Department, asked for support for fair compensation for 
his crew when they have to report to work as essential employees when the City has a weather -
related closure. Upon inquiry, he advised the solution he would like is that his staff be compensated 
as if they are working on a holiday as they are paid their regular rate of pay in these scenarios. 
 
 Kris Jones , City Clerk, advised the following Public Hearing announcement was 
inadvertently left off agenda and read into record:  Announcement of  a Public Hearing to be held 
December 19, 2019 at 6:00pm in City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming 
Statute §15 -1-402 exist for the North ½ of Lot 4, Williams Subdivision, Laramie County , 
Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of Marshall Road and Storey Boulevard). 
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:41 p.m.  
 
 
 
  
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 17, 2019 