MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2019-12-19 | CLIP_ID: 731 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 731

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 19, 2019 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor 
and Jeff White.  Absent: Ken Esquibel and Dr. Mark Rinne.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  
The pledge of allegiance was recited.    
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Mr. Shanor abstained due to affiliation with agenda item #9.  
Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook and Mr. Roybal, 
agenda item #11 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining 
items, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present.     
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 9, 2019.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for the North ½ of Lot 4, Williams 
Subdivision, Laramie County Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection o f Marshall Road 
and Storey Boulevard).   Tawn Hillenbrand, Planning and Development , provided information 
relating to the compliance of annexation requirements.  Ed Clark, area property owner, expressed 
concerns with variances needed for access , neighborhood safety and property values.  Mr. Clark 
advised he is otherwise not opposed to the annexation.  There being no further comments or input 
and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the North 
1/2 of Lot 4, Williams Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the 
intersection of Marshall Road and Storey Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County LR Low -density Residential 
to City LR Low -density Residential for the North 1/2 of Lot 4, Williams Subdivision, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of Marshall Road and Storey Boulevard) 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Providing for the review and approval of a Federal Mineral Royalty 
Capital Construction Account Grant application to the Wyoming State Loan and Investment Board 
on behalf of the Governing Body for the South Cheyenne Water and Sewer District for two Sewer 
Collector Rehabilitation Projects – Southern Interceptor (Priority One) and Terry Road Sewer 
Collector (Priority Two).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6027) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Grant for replacement of the playground in South Lions Park .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6028) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving Sanitary Sewer Service, by Outside User Sanitary Sewer 
Services Agreement, for Laramie County Fire District No. 2, for Tract 28, excep ting the East 40 
feet of said tract, Dell Range Addition, 2nd Filing, Section 22, Township 14 North, Range 66 West, 
of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Rod Stone, area property owner, commented on flooding issues 
relating to the development of Thomas Heights and how it has affected his property.  Mr. Stone 
inquired about a detention pond in the area to help eliminate flooding issues.  Michael O’Donnell, 
City Attorney, upon inquiry, reported the E ngineering Department is working on 3 different 
options to solve issues.  He advised a meeting will be held for residents in the area  to explain the 
options, one of which is a detention pond.  Mr. O’Donnell explained a  cooperative conversation 
with all parties involved is ongoing  and the goal is to reach a stage where people downhill from 
Thomas Heights will no longer experience flooding.  Mr. Stone encouraged the governing body to 
support Laramie County Fire District #2 with this request.  Jason Caughey, Laramie County Fire 
District #2 Fire Chief, upon inquiry, explained prior to the development of Thomas Heights, they 
did not have to service their sewer system in 11 years and since then, they service it twice a month 
at the sum of $13,000.00 for 6 months.  He advised engineers involved explained this is due to 
saturation of the area.  It was noted the saturated area isn’t being considered for a detention pond 
and that Laramie County Fire District #2 would be interested in continuing conversations to find 
a remedy. He further explained their property consists of 2 lots and 10 acres.  Comments were 
made in support of the agreement, concern relating to flooding issues in the area and finding a 
resolution to prevent further property damage.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  (#6029) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Pursuant to W.S. §15-1-404 (b) certifying compliance with W.S. §15-1-
402, for a City-initiated annexation for portion of land generally located between Old Happy Jack 
Road and Happy Jack Road, and west of I -80.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr . 
Shanor moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by substitute dated 
12/16/2019, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Shanor explained the substitute corrects a clerical error 
in the entitlement from I-80 to I-25.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#6030) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing a street name change from “Cribbon Aven ue” to “South 
Cribbon Avenue” for the portion of the street located between West Jefferson Road and Pinto 
  
Lane, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  
(#6031) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Designating local banks as deposito ries for municipal funds – referred 
to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Office on 
Violence Against Women OVW-2020-17563 Improving Criminal Justice Responses to Domestic 
Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Grant Program CFDA Number 16.590 -
Grants to Encourage Arrests Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)  
 
 RESOLUTION – Certifying that the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne has agreed 
to the Town of Albin’s Capital Improvement Projects to be submitted to the Office of State Lands 
and Investments, State Loan and Investment Board, for Countywide Consensus Block Allocat ion 
Grant Funding from BFY 2011/2012 in the total amount of $14,562.00. (Re-allocation of funds) - 
refer to Finance Committee.  Mr. Shanor declared a conflict of interest due to his current 
employment, vacated chambers and abstained from discussion and  voting. Mr. White explained 
the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda  at the 12/16/2019 Finance Committee 
meeting and that provisions of Title 2 have been met.  Mr.  White moved to adopt, seconded by 
Mr. Luna.  Mr. White explained the Mayor of Albin brought forward the resolution which is time 
sensitive relating to the application submittal and that the Town of Albin desires to submit the 
grant application  to SLIB for funding . Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#6032)  
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Western Research and 
Development, Ltd, for 2020 Signal Upgrade Design Services (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax). Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7117) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Saddle Ridge, LLC, to 
outline the responsibilities for the donation of land and for the management of a multi -purpose 
non-motorized pedestrian and bicycle pathway, park and landscape amenities in  a portion of 
Saddle Ridge, 7 th and 9 th Filings (Community Facilities Fees) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7118) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and WJE, LLC, to outline 
the responsibilities for the donation of land and for the management of a multi -purpose non -
motorized pedestrian and bicycle pathway, park and landscape amenities in a portion of Saddle 
Ridge, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th and 13th Filings (Community Facilities Fees).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7119) 
 
[CA] Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Department of 
Transportation for the 2020 Epoxy Striping Project ( 2015-2018 1% Sales Tax ). Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#7120) 
 
  
[CA] Lease agreement between the City of Cheyenne and The Girl Scouts of Montana and 
Wyoming, for 45.93 acres of city -owned real property located near the former Roundtop Water 
Treatment Facility to be used for the purposes of conducting activities consistent with the By-Laws 
and Articles of Incorporation of the Girl Scouts of Montana and Wyoming – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between  Laramie County, Wyoming, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the acquisition of Lots 2, 3, and 4 of Frontier Park, a s ubdivision to the 
City of Cheyenne, consisting of 3.78 acres, situated in portions of Government Lots 1 and 2, NE 
¼ NE ¼ and SE ¼ NE ¼ of Section 25, Township 14 North, Range 67 West, of the 6th P.M., City 
of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and A to Z Recreation LLC, for the Lincoln Park 
Play System Project.  (Development Impact Fees, Special Revenue Fund, CDBG Funds) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement for services between the City of Cheyenne and the Church of St. Mary for 
Olivet Cemetery grounds maintenance, operations and office administrative services – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6986 between the City of Ch eyenne and TC 
Solutions, LLC, for Owner’s Representative Services for the Splash Pad Project .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6986) 
 
[CA] Amendment No. #1 to Contract # 7041 to Lease No. 8 -09466 between the State of 
Wyoming, Department of Administra tion and Information, General Services Division, and the 
City of Cheyenne, to decrease the number of leased parking spaces from eighty-two (82) to seventy 
(70) at the George Cox Parking Structure – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment #5 to Contract #2985 between the City of Cheyenne and the City of Cheyenne-
Laramie County Joint Powers Board, for the acquisition of Lots 2, 3, and 4 of Frontier Park, a 
subdivision to the City of Cheyenne, consisting of 3.78 acres, situated in portions of G overnment 
Lots 1 and 2, NE ¼ NE ¼, and SE ¼ NE ¼ of Section 25, Township 14 North, Range 67 West, of 
the 6th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -4-20 for furnishing one (1) John Deer e 1575 Terrain Cut with 
Comfort Cab Commercial Front Mower (less mower deck), Rotary Broom, Snow Blower, and 
Blade, for the City of Cheyenne, Facilities Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Stotz Equipment, Evansville, WY, in an amount not 
to exceed $40,750.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -8-20 for furnishing One (1) Bomb Squad Robot, for the City of 
Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department.  (Homeland Security Grant, Project #2000563) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
  
 Reappointments of Brent Groesbeck and Joe Patterson to the Contractor Licensing Board; 
Nicholas Pickering and Ray Fertig, Jr. to the Building Code Board of Appeals; Lee Filer to the 
Personnel Commission; Patrice Gapen and Stephen Ganison to the Housing and Community 
Development Advisory Council; John Brewster and Jason Bogstie to the Historic Preservation 
Board; Greg Palmquist to the Planning Commission; William Beaman to the City/County Frontier 
Park Improvement Joint Powers Board, Jeffie Wiggins -McMullen to the Fire Civil Service 
Commission and Patti Riesland, Howard Hill Sr., Justin  Whitacre, Michelle Woerner, Julie 
Tucker, Daryl Hensel, Mary Richey, Marsha Dial, Dr. Carole Martin and Steven Bates to the 
Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities.  Mr . Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  
Shanor.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present  with the 
exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointment).   
 
Appointments of Brian Casey to the Contractor Licensing Board; Julie Goode to the 
Building Code Board of Appeals; Carla Winkler to the Poli ce Civil Service Commission; Haylee 
Chenchar to the  Downtown Development Authority Board; Linda Burt to the Personnel 
Commission; David Cook and JC Manalo to the Housing and Community Development Advisory 
Council; Cathie Tabor-Douglas and Milward Simpson to the Historic Preservation Board; David 
Janes to the Laramie County Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board; Brian Fenimore to the Board 
of Adjustment and James Bowers to the Planning Commission.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present 
with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointment).  Mayor Orr expressed 
appreciation to volunteers. 
 
 Appointment of Anthony F. Ross as Senior Municipal Court Judge effe ctive January 3, 
2020.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present  with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote 
(mayoral appointment).   
 
 Voucher Report.   Frank Cole  commented on dirt left by a contractor in the area of a 
Mountain Road project and requested it to be removed. 
 
 Revenue Report.  No comments were made. 
 
 Under other business:  
 
 Michael O’Donnell, City Attorney, advised he would be offering an opinion on a petition 
filed by James Johnson, a Mayoral Candidate.  Mr. O’Donnell provided history on the issues as 
follows:  M ayor Orr declared a pothole emergency in August . The Engineering Department 
solicited bids, 2 responses were received, and the low bid was accepted.  Mr. O’Donnell explained 
the high bidder was disqualified as work couldn’t be completed in the required timeframe and the 
Engineering Department then reduced the scope of the bid quantity.  The bid then came before 
governing body and was declined and a contract was never entered into.  The petition was filed 
pursuant to WY § 15-1-113(j) related to malfeasance alleging a bid was entered into and the same 
consideration to alter the bid was not allowed by the higher bidder.  Mr. O’Donnell recommended 
that the petition be dismissed as there was never a contract entered into .  He explained  the 
  
Purchasing Manager does not enter int o contracts but drafts documents , and in his opinion, the 
petition seeks to lure governing body into action  against the statute cited in the petition.  Mr. 
O’Donnell provided additional information relating to the allegations made by Mr. Johnson and 
stated the petition lacks validity and suggests the governing body take action that would be against 
the law.  Mr. O’Donnell, upon inquiry, further advised that in his opinion, the petition should be 
dismissed with prejudice and that no hearing or action is nece ssary, noting the city proper ly 
followed the bid requirement process and that no malfeasance took place.  Upon further inquiry 
from, Mr. O’Donnell advised the petition doesn’t require any action as it doesn’t require a hearing 
and is not required to be placed on an agenda for consideration but could be if that is the desire of 
the governing body.  Mr. Case advised he forwarded the Attorney’s legal opinion regarding the 
petition to Mr. Johnson.  Prior to public comment, Mayor Orr advised those speaking on the issue 
would be allowed 3 minutes to comment.  James Johnson commented on the petition and explained 
that he did not intend it to target Knife River vs. Simon Contractors and it was only filed to address 
the issue during a public hearing  setting.  Mr. Johnson a dded he did not intend to violate state 
statute and the purpose of the petition was to hold accountability for the bidding process.  Mayor 
Orr, a t the conclusion of  the 3-minute response period, asked Mr. Johnson  be removed from  
council chambers as he was not following procedure and continued to comment.  Concern was 
expressed related to the petition being signed by many people and being dismissed on a 
technicality.  Upon inquiry related to potential recourse if the petition is dismissed, Mr. O’Donnell 
reported t his process is an anomaly state statute in Wyoming law  and that there is no revie w 
process required.  He further advised  the governing body may place the item on an agenda and 
either accept the request for a public hearing or can simply dismiss the petition request. 
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, th e meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:41 p.m.  
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 31, 2019 