MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2020-01-13 | CLIP_ID: 732 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 732

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 13, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case,  Bryan Cook  Ken Esquibel , Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna,  Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The 
pledge of allegiance was recited.   Mayor Orr recognized that Buck Holmes , Laramie County 
Commissioner and Kathy Emmons, City/County Health Department Director were in attendance.  
 
 Recognition of Rocky Case for his service as City Council President for 2019.  Mayor Orr 
provided a gavel plaque to Mr. Case and expressed appreciation for his services as Council 
President in 2019.  Mr. Case expressed appreciation for the opportunity to serve as president, 
reflected on the past year generally and thanked co-elected officials and the community.   
 
 Election of City Council President for 2020.   Mayor Orr announced that pursuant to Title 
2 of Cheyenne City Code the Mayor conducts the election for the office of City Council President 
but does not cast a vote. Mr. Luna nominated Dr. Rinne, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne 
accepted the nomination.  There being no further nominations, Mr. Shanor moved to cease 
nominations, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion  carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Motion to nominate and elect Dr. Rinne as City Counci l President for 2020 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. Esquibel 
voting “no”.   
 
 Election of City Council Vice-President for 2020.  Mayor Orr announced that pursuant to 
Title 2 of Cheyenne City Code the Ma yor conducts the election for the office of City Council 
President but does not cast a vote.  Dr. Rinne moved to nominate Mr. White, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  There being no further nominations, Mr. Roybal moved to cease nominations, seconded 
by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body .  Mr. White 
accepted the nomination.  Motion to nominate and elect Mr. White as City Council Vice President 
for 2020 carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.   Mr.  Luna moved to approve , seconded by Mr . White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 19, 2019.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the North 
1/2 of Lot 4, Williams Subdivision, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the 
intersection of Marshall Road and Storey Boulevard).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, 
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from County LR Low -density Residential 
to City LR Low -density Residential for the North 1/2 of Lot 4, Williams Subdivision, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of Marshall Road and Storey Boulevard).  
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne advised there 
was considerable discussion at the January 7, 2020 Public Services Committee meeting involving 
access issues to the area relating to emergency services.  Dr. Rinne further advised Charles Bloom, 
Planning & Development Director, will provide a proposal to rectify the access issues at the next 
Public Services C ommittee meeting  (January 22, 2020).  Motion car ried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LR Low Density Residential to NR -
2 Neighborhood Residential - Medium Density for the west half of Lot 2 and all of Lot 3, 
Sunnyside Addition, 8th Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of Dell Range 
Blvd. and Van Buren Ave.) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapters 8.40, Food and Food Service 
Establishments, within Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, and Chapters 10.12, Administration and Enforcement, 10.16, Arrest and Citation 
Procedure, 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, 10.60, Parking Limitations, 10.64, 
Loading and Unloading, 10.68, Critical Traffic and Parking Area s, within Title 10, Vehicles and 
Traffic, of the City of Cheyenne Municipal Code – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsors – Mr. Cook and Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Designating local banks as depositories for municipal.   Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6033) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Office on 
Violence Against Women OVW-2020-17563 Improving Criminal Justice Responses to Domestic 
Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Grant Program CFDA Number 16.590-
Grants to Encourage Arrests Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6034) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the fiscal year 2020 budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W. S. §16-4-112 & §16-4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute State Historic 
Preservation Office Certified Local Government (CLG) Grant Agreements for two 2020 CLG 
Grants (Board Training to attend two Historic Preservation conferences, and the Cheyenne Façade 
Improvement Program Project) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Lease agreement between the City of Cheyenne and The Girl Scouts of Montana and 
Wyoming, for 45.93 acres of city -owned real property located near the former Roundtop Water 
Treatment Facility to be used for the purposes of conducting activities consistent with the By-Laws 
and Articles of Incorporation of the Girl Scouts of Montana and Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (revenue to the City). (#7122) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between  Laramie County, Wyoming, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the acquisition of Lots 2, 3, and 4 of Frontier Park, a subdivision to the 
City of Cheyenne, consisting of 3.78 acres, situated in portions of Government Lots 1 and 2, NE 
¼ NE ¼ and SE ¼ NE ¼ of Section 25, Township 14 North, Range 67 West, of the 6th P.M., City 
of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.  Tucker Fagan, City of Cheyenne-Laramie County Joint 
Powers Board Chairman, reported the Board subleases to C heyenne Frontier Days (CFD) and 
requested approval.  He explained the City is reclaiming Lots 2, 3, and 4, which is an area of land 
by Kennedy Dr. on the north side of park  and advised it was previously used for the Laramie 
County Fair but is no longer needed since the fair has moved entirely to the Archer Complex.  
Buck Holmes, Laramie County Commissioner, thanked the City for use of land in previous years 
and explained the County wishes to deed that property back to the City.  Mr. Holmes advised the 
Laramie County Commissioners have looked into removing the buildings but found it is not 
economically feasible, therefore, th ey are leaving them for CFD to use.  Tom H irsig, Cheyenne 
Frontier Days CEO, thanked the County for working with them over the years with the buildings 
and advised CFD does have some needs for carriage storage and can potentially use the buildings 
for CFD rodeo needs.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve, seconded 
by Mr. Luna.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated January 6, 2020, seconded by Mr. 
Case.  Mr. White explained the amendment is to provide clarification of the property description 
on the title.  He explained there is an amendment for the MOU and an amendment for the affiliated 
contract, agenda item #18 (b), for the same purpose.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Hirsig confirmed maintenance of structures 
will be the responsibility of CFD.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. (#7123) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and A to Z Recreation LLC, for the Lincoln Park 
Play System Project.  (Development Impact Fees, Special Revenue Fund, CDBG Funds).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $206,697.00). (#7124) 
 
[CA] Agreement for services between the City of Cheyenne and the Church of St. Mary for 
Olivet Cemetery grounds maintenance, operations and office administrative services.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the City). (#7125) 
 
  
[CA] Sponsorship Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Charles Schwab, Independent 
Leader Sam Runyan, for a 7 year Stage Sponsorship for the Fridays on the Plaza (FOTP) events 
(Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Volleyball Officiating Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Officials for Fun 
Club for adult City league volleyball officiating services during the Winter 2020 season 
(Recreation Special Revenue Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding betw een the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, the City of 
Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities and the Laramie County Conservation District for the 
implementation of the design for the Crow Creek Revival Phase I that will improve the aquatic 
health of Crow Creek – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and AVI 
Professional Corporation, for the Capitol Basin 26th Street Storm Sewer Extension Design Project 
(Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund - 2012 Ballot Ove rages) – referred to Public Services 
Committee.  Dr. Rinne explained the item was heard under other items  at the January 7, 2020 
Public Services Committee, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City code have been met.  Dr. Rinne 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Tom Cobb, City Engineer, explained the agreement 
was delayed due to negotiations with the SLIB office and the necessary documents were not 
available for Council committee consideration until Tuesday, January 7, 2020.  Mr. Cobb advised 
the agreement should be expedited for protection of the Capitol Project and noted he will be asking 
for expedition of another affiliated contract.  Mayor Orr explained the Engineering Department is 
acting on a resolution adopted by the Governing Body, sponsored by Mr. Laybourn, to expedite 
the process.  Mr. Cobb explained the Request for Proposal (RFP) process was completed prior to 
him taking the City Engineer position and that 5 proposals were received, and 3 firms were  
interviewed with AVI being selected.  Comment was made on the process of bringing items up 
under other items for the agenda at standing Council committees and inquiry was made related to 
the necessity to do so with a large-scale project.  Concern was expressed regarding the expenditure 
and expediting the agreement without additional understanding about the protection of the S tate 
and the critical project for downtown .  Dr. Rinne advised there was discussion at the January 7, 
2020 Public Services Committee regarding necessity of bringing the item up under other items to 
expedite the project by 2 weeks, noting construction isn’t likely to begin until after Cheyenne 
Frontier Days.  Mr. Cobb explained the purpose is to expedite the design of the project so they can 
begin to understand what is underground  in an effort to be prepared for construction .  He noted 
projects of this nature often have unforeseen issues to address that often stall construction.  
Comments were made regarding how dangerous the TCE plume is and the importance of learning 
additional information prior to approval.  Additional comments w ere made in support of  
expediting the project and concern regarding proper protocol.  Mr. Shanor moved to refer the item 
to Finance Committee and to postpone to January 27, 2020 , seconded by Mr. Laybourn .  Kris 
Jones, City Clerk, upon inquiry,  explained the postponement would result in a 2 week delay.   
Discussion continued and included: support for the motion to refer the item to Finance Committee 
and postpone, selection process for the project, the importance of the project and sending the item 
to the appropriate committee.  Motion to refer to Finance Committee and postpone to January 27, 
  
2020 carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr, 
Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, and Mr. Roybal voting “no”. 
 
[CA]  Purchase and Sale Agreement between DSK Ranch, LLC, and the City of Cheyenne for 
real property described as a Portion of the East Half of the East Half (E½E½) of Section 35, 
Township 14 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming, in the amount of 
$2,500,000.00 to be used as a future City park in accordance with the terms of the 2017 1% 
Specific Purpose Sales and Use Tax Ballot and Election (Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund - 2017 
Ballot) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment No. #1 to Contract # 7041 to Lease No. 8 -09466 between the State of 
Wyoming, Department of Administration and Information, General Services Division, and the 
City of Cheyenne, to decrease the number of leased parking spaces from eighty-two (82) to seventy 
(70) at the George Cox Parking Structure.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the 
City). (#7041) 
 
 Amendment #5 to Contract #2985 between the City of Cheyenne and the City of Cheyenne-
Laramie County Joint Powers Board, for the acquisi tion of Lots 2, 3, and 4 of Frontier Park, a 
subdivision to the City of Cheyenne, consisting of 3.78 acres, situated in portions of Government 
Lots 1 and 2, NE ¼ NE ¼, and SE ¼ NE ¼ of Section 25, Township 14 North, Range 67 West, of 
the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Wyoming . Tucker Fagan, City of Cheyenne -
Laramie County Joint Powers Board Chairman, explained the amendment would execute transfer 
of the lots to the City and expressed appreciation to the City Attorney’s office for assistance in 
preparing the amendment to clarify the property description. Mr. White moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr.  Esquibel.  Mr. White moved  to amend by substitute dated January 6, 2020, 
seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing 
body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
(#2985) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -8-20 for furnishing One (1) Bomb Squad Robot, for the City of 
Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department.  (Homeland Security Grant, Project #2000563).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Northrop Grumman/Remotec, Inc., Clinton, TN, 
in an amount not to exceed $227,354.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Titan Machinery Company, 
Gillette, WY, for the repair of Street and Alley Vacuum Truck Block #5889  (Fleet Maintenance) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Appointments of Dennis Rafferty to the Housing and Community Development Advisory 
Council; Sally Sato the Mayor’s Council for Disabilities; Kathy Emmons and Lieutenant Eric Kent 
to the Laramie County Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board.  Mr.  Luna moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointment).   
 
 Voucher Report.  No comments were made.   
  
 Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held January 27, 2020 for a proposed sale of real 
property owned by the City of Cheyenne, described as Lots 1 through 12, Block 2, Roberts Place 
Addition, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and more commonly referred to as 610 
West 7 th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the proposed price of $569,780.00, to the Laramie 
County School District Number One f or the essential future development of a new elementary 
school. 
 
 Announcement that due to the Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday on Monday, January 20, 
2020, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the Municipal 
Building, Room 104, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Finance Committee 
will meet Tuesday, January 21, 2020 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee will meet 
Wednesday, January 22, 2020 at Noon. 
 
 Under other business:  
 
 Donn Edmunds voiced concerns relating to  high-powered pickup truck headlights 
impeding the vision of other drivers and requested the governing body consider  taking action 
against the headlights. 
  
 Mr. Laybourn  provided comments relating to City goals for  fiscal year 2020 of the 
governing body and requested consideration to hold goal setting sessions  and additional work 
sessions noting the City of Casper posts their annual and on-going goals in City Hall for the benefit 
of the public.  Mr. Laybourn further commented on the upcoming legislative session and 
questioned what assistance, if any would the City have for important matters, noting  in the past 
there has been a lack of communication and joint understanding.  Mr. Esquibel advised there was 
a recent opportunity to meet with legislative delegations and there was a strong presence from the 
town of Albin . Mr. Esquibel advised he  looks forward to working with the governing body on 
legislative matters and goals.  Mayor Orr explained the City has been utilizing the Strat-Op process 
and is open to meeting with members of the governing body to discuss the process project.   
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:41 p.m.  
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 21, 2020 