MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2020-02-10 | CLIP_ID: 735 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 735

  
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 10, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky 
Shanor and Jeff White .  Absent: Rocky Case and Bryan Cook.   Also present: Kris Jones, City 
Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Luna and Mr. Roybal, agenda item #16 (c) was removed from the Consent Agenda.   Mr. 
Luna moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 27, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a p ublic hearing  to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for a portion of the S½ of Section 35, 
and a portion of the SW¼ of Section 36, T14N, R67W Laramie County, Wyoming (located 
between Old Happy Jack Road and Happy Jack Road, west of I -25). Seth Lloyd, Planning and 
Development Department,  advised the Cit y has initiated the annexation, provided information 
relating to the property and reviewed requirements of and compliance with annexation conditions 
contained in state statutes .  Mr. Lloyd reported the affiliated annexation ordinance would be 
introduced at a later date.  There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having 
been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the 
City Clerk’s Office for C & Z LLC, d/b/a China Buffet, 1958 Dell Range Blvd., Suite D, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Upon inquiry, Kevin Christianson, representing C & Z LLC, explained the request is 
for a new license due to new ownership.  Mr. Christianson advised the current license will expire 
on March 31, 2020 and the new one will take effect the following day , April 1, 2020 due to the 
timing of annual license renewals and the new ownership.  Kris Jones, City Clerk, confirmed upon 
inquiry, employees are required to receive TIPS training in order to serve alcohol.  There being no 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr referred the item to the 
Finance Committee and closed the hearing. 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LR Low Density Residential to NR-
2 Neighborhood Residential - Medium Density for the west half of Lot 2 and all of Lot 3, 
Sunnyside Addition, 8th Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of Dell Range 
Blvd. and Van Buren Ave.).  Sharman Straub, area land owner, reported she did not receive 
notification of the proposed zone change , noted objection  and stated the following concerns:  
multi-family development relating to small lot size, lack of current adequate drainage, roadways 
icing over during winter mon ths, questioned whether setbacks would be vacated, parking issues 
and limitations  and space restrictions involving landscaping requirements .  Ms. Straub voiced 
concerns relating to traffic access and egress relating to proposed roadway improvements on Van 
Buren Ave. Daniel Holbrook, property owner and applicant, reported he has met with some 
adjacent property owners related to concerns and advised he will meet all city code requirements 
related to parking, drainage  and setbacks.  He further noted he met with the traffic engineer on 
how the D ell Range expansion will impact this project  and reported it is being taken into 
consideration.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third 
and final readin g, seconded by Mr.  Shanor.  Upon inquiry related to adjacent property owner 
notification, Mr. Holbrook advised this is the first he had heard that a neighbor in the area hadn’t 
received notification. He explained he hired an engineering firm to send out required notifications 
and the firm provided information showing notice was sent to required area property owners.  He 
added he is willing to work with neighbors regarding their concerns.  Mr. Laybourn moved to 
postpone to February 24, 2020.  Charles Bloom, Planning & Development Director, reported as 
part of the proposed rezoning process, the applicant must send notice to properties within 300 ft.  
Mr. Bloom advised the City requires confirmation that all neighbors within 300 ft. receive notice 
and they believe everyone that was required to receive notice was properly noticed.  Mr. Bloom 
explained the property in question is within 300 ft.  Ms. Straub  upon inquiry advised they don’t 
reside at the property and that the current tenant is her daughter who reported she did not receive 
the notice.  Motion to postpone died due to lack of second.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with exception of Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. White 
voting “no”.  (Clerk note -ordinances on third and final reading require a minimum of six (6) 
affirmative votes) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapters 8.40, Food and Food Service 
Establishments, within Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, and Chapters 10.12, Administration and Enforcement, 10.16, Arrest and Citation 
Procedure, 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, 10.60, Parking Limitations, 10.64, 
Loading and Unloading, 10.68, Critical Traffic and Parking A reas, within Title 10, Vehicles and 
Traffic, of the City of Cheyenne Municipal Code  (Postponed from 01 -27-2020).  Mr. Roybal 
advised the item died at Public Services Committee due to lack of a motion.   Upon inquiry, Mr. 
Roybal explained the committee discussed division of the proposed amendments into multiple 
documents. Item died due to the lack of motion.   
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 5.52, Massage Establishments, within 
Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
  
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapters 8.40, Food and Food Service 
Establishments, within Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, and Chapters 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, and 10.68, Critical 
Traffic and Parking Areas, within Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Rinne and Mr. 
Shanor) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapters 10.12, Administration and 
Enforcement, 10.16, Arrest and Cita tion Procedure, 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking 
Generally, 10.60, Parking Limitations, 10.64, Loading and Unloading, within Title 10, Vehicles 
and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Rinne and Mr. Shanor) 
 
 [CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to  accept for ownership, 
development and maintenance, land from the Sweetgrass Land Co., LLC for the purpose of 
greenway and open space use pursuant to the rec orded Sweetgrass 1 st Filing and Sweetgrass 2 nd 
Filing subdivisions.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6037) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution No. 5979 directing the availability of the 
production of Tchaikovsky’s The Nutcracker Ballet at the Cheyenne Civic Center.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6038) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Alliance 
Addition, 4th Filing, a replat of a portion of Lot 1, Block 1, Alliance Addition, Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and Jackson 
Street) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Buffalo 
Ridge Estates, 11th Filing, a replat of Lot 15, Block 21, Buffalo Ridge Estates, Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located southeast of the intersection of Hilltop Av enue and  Bluff Place) – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming and the City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities for the GIS Cooperative Budget 
Consolidation.  (City General Fund and County funds) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#7142/7143) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Laramie County 
Conservation District for allocation of funds for planning, design and implementation of Crow 
Creek and its tributaries rehabilitation project.  (1991-1994 1% Sales Tax per Resolution #4093 – 
funds moved in 2013 to the Specific Purpose Sales Tax Fund and proceeds from purchase and sale 
agreement of Lot 1,  Block 1, Pat Griffin Second Filing – funds located in the Specific Purpose 
Sales Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $147,340.00). 
(#7144) 
 
  
 Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Laramie C ounty 
School District Number One, for real property described as Lots 1 through 12, Block 2, Roberts 
Place Addition, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming, and more commonly known as 
610 West 7 th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in the amount of $569,780.00,  to be used as a future 
elementary school  (Revenue to the City).  Mr. Luna moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$569,780.00, seconded by Mr. White.  Teresa Moore, Community Recreation & Events Director, 
upon inquiry  advised options are being explored relating to possible future relocation of the 
gymnastics program and noted they have had discussions with Laramie School District #1 
regarding leasing the current location until it is needed for development of a new elem entary 
school.  Robin Lockman, City Treasurer,  upon inquiry explained the amount of unassigned and 
unrestricted reserves is difficult to project and advised the amount changes month to month 
throughout the year.  Ms. Lockman provided additional accounting information involving revenue 
projections.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#7145) 
 
[CA] Development agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Brandon Swain regarding fire 
access (Northwest of Marshall Road and Storey Boulevard).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7146) 
 
[CA] Letter of Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Depar tment, and the United 
States Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, for locating and eradicating illicit 
cannabis.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $75,000.00 – revenue 
to City). (#7147) 
 
[CA] Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Federal Credit Union, 
Inc., for the redevelopment and access at the Pershing Boulevard/Converse Avenue/19 th Street 
Roundabout – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Audiomatrix Inc., for 
the City of Cheyenne Public, Educational, and Governmental (PEG) Access Channel 
Programming Equipment and Production Equipment Upgrade Project (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax, 
Charter Equipment Funding Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-7-20 for furnishing As Needed Emergency Snow Control for the 
City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department (2015 -2018 & 2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from JTL Group, Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, 
in an amount not to exceed $200,000.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -10-20 for furnishing new computers and operating systems for 
the City of Cheyenne Information Technology Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from DHE Computer Systems, Centennial, CO, in an 
amount not to exceed $49,691.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-11-20 for furnishing one (1) new 2019 -2020 ¾ ton regular cab, 
full size pickup truck and one (1) new 2019-2020 ¾ ton ext. cab, full size pickup truck for the City 
of Cheyenne, Parks Division  (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax)  -- referred to Finance Committee.  
  
 Voucher Report.  No comments were made.   
 
 Announcement was made that due to the President’s Day Holiday on Monday, February 
17, 2020, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in the 
Municipal Building, Room 104, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, as follows: Fin ance 
Committee will meet Tuesday, February 18, 2020 at 11:00 a.m. and Public Services Committee 
will meet Wednesday, February, 19, 2020 at Noon. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 24, 2020 at 6:00pm in 
City Council Chambers, 21 01 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a microbrewery  liquor 
license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Black Tooth Brewing Company, LLC 
d/b/a/ Black Tooth Brewing, 520 W. 19th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held  February 24, 2020 at 6:00pm in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming,  for renewal applications for 
existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, 
microbrewery, satellite distillery, winery and special malt beverage permits) filed with the City 
Clerk’s Office. 
 
 Under other business:  
 
 Upon inquiry, City Clerk Kris Jones clarified that ordinances on third and final reading 
require six (6) affirmative votes. 
 
There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:30 p.m.  
 
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  February 15, 2020 