MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2020-02-24 | CLIP_ID: 736 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 736

  
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 24, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn (arrived at 6:03 p.m.), Mike 
Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also present: Kylie Soden, 
Deputy City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. White, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Cook and Mr. Case, agenda item # 18 (a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.   Mr. 
Luna moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 10, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from the Special Meeting of the Governing Body on February 11, 2020.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing for a microbrewery liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Black Tooth Brewing Company, LLC d/b/a/ Black Tooth Brewing, 520 
W. 19th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing 
having been met,  the item was referred  to the Finance Committee  and Mayor Orr  closed the 
hearing. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing for renewal of existing City liquor licenses (retail, 
restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill  licenses, microbrewery, satellite distillery, winery 
and special malt beverage permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office .  There being no comments 
or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, the item was referred to the Finance 
Committee and Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter  5.52, Massage Establishments, 
within Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Rachael Wetzel commented on the importance of the ordinance for women in the 
community, the need for the availability of breast massage services within city limits where there 
are regulations and spoke in support of the ordinance .  Mayor Orr expressed her appreciation to 
  
Ms. Wetzel for her involvem ent and for  bringing the issue forward for consideration.   City 
Attorney Michael O’Donnell advised he has been in contact with the Director of the Environmental 
Health Department related to the requirement of a medical referral for breast massage service 
patients and that they endorse the ordinance.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Case 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Luna .  Mr. Case moved to amend by 
substitute dated February 24, 2020 which includes striking language “or distance learning school” 
in Section 5.52.105 (a)(2) and Section 5.52.105 (b)(2), seconded by Mr . Luna.  Motion to amend 
by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapters 8.40, Food and Food Service 
Establishments, within Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, and Chapters 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, and 10.68, Critical 
Traffic and Parking Areas, within Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapters 10.12, Administration and 
Enforcement, 10.16, Arrest and Citation Procedure, 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking 
Generally, 10.60, Parking Limitations, 10.64, Loading and Unloading, within Title 10, Vehicles 
and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Case moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 10.12.130, City Traffic Engineer, of 
Chapter 10.12, Administration and Enforcement, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Creating Section 2.04.200, Purchasing Policy, of Chapter 
2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case)  
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Alliance 
Addition, 4th Filing, a replat of a portion of Lot 1, Block 1, Alliance Addition, Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and Jackson 
Street.  Mr. Case moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Luna. Comment was made o n the proposed 
land use worsening existing parking issues in the area.  Motion failed. Voting “yes” – Mr. Case, 
Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Luna, 
Mayor Orr, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Buffalo 
Ridge Estates, 11th Filing, a replat of Lot 15, Block 21, Buffalo Ridge Estates, Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located southeast of the intersection of Hilltop Avenue and Bluff Place).  Mr. 
Case moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Concern was expressed related to the lot size and 
  
the proposal of dividing the lot into 2 residential lots.  Motion failed due to a tie vote .  Voting 
“yes” – Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. 
Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mayor Orr and Dr. Rinne. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Creating a Revolving Real Property Special Revenue Fund to account 
for the acquisition and resale of real property of the City of Cheyenne – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to approve and file the Wyoming 
Division of Victim Services Funding Application State Fiscal Year 2021 and 2022, July 1, 2020 
to June 30, 2022 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2020 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 & §16-4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsors – Mr. Case, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Shanor) 
 
 Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Federal Credit Union, 
Inc., for the redevelopment and access at the Pershing Boulevard/Converse Avenue/19 th Street 
Roundabout.  City Engineer Tom Cobb explained the agreement is for possible operational 
improvements and public access in perpetuity for the free right turn and north sidewalk.  Mr. White 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. White moved to amend  by substitute Exhibits A, 
B and C that were distributed electronically on February 21, 2020 seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion 
to amend by substitute exhibits carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main 
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7149) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Audiomatrix Inc., for 
the City of Cheyenne Public, Educational, and Governmental (PEG) Access Channel 
Programming Equipment and Production Equipment Upgrade Project (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax, 
Charter Equipment Funding Grant) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an  amount not to 
exceed $74,537.65).  (#7150) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School District Number 
One to provide transportation services for the Community Recreation & Events Summer Rec 
Camp Program (Recreation Program Fees) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-11-20 for furnishing one (1) new 2019 -2020 ¾ ton regular cab, 
full size pickup truck and one (1) new 2019-2020 ¾ ton ext. cab, full size pickup truck for the City 
of Cheyenne, Parks Division (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $67,703.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-6-20 for furnishing a minimum of three (3) to a maximum of ten 
(10), lift -equipped transit vehicles, for the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division.  (FTA Transit 
Development Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for C & Z LLC, 
d/b/a China Buffet, 1958 Dell Range Blvd., Suite D, Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried.  
 
 Voucher Report.  No comments were made. 
 
 Revenue Report.  No comments were made. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 9, 2020  at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a retail liquor license 
renewal application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Deep South LLC d/b/a Redwood Lounge, 
2105 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
 Under other business:  
 
 Downtown Development Authority Executive Director Amber  Ash made comments on 
agenda item #9 which included the importance of food trucks in the community and concern for 
food trucks being able to park in front of businesses for long periods of time.  Ted Miazga, Parking 
Manager, Cheyenne Police Department, clarified the ordinance is to establish the option of food  
trucks being able to stay longer than 2 hours in front of a business if they are requested to be there. 
 
 Police Chief Brian Kozak provided an update on Calea accreditation the Police Department 
is looking to obtain.  He explained it is a 3 -year process and he is seeking governing body input 
before it is finalized.  Upon inquiry, Chief Kozak provided information on the accreditation 
program stating law enforcement has 181 different standards, many of which are high liability, 
and the program is to improve the delivery of public safety services  and best practices .  He 
explained the department is seeking 1 st level accreditation and the Wyoming Association of Risk 
Management will pay for the membership.  Upon further inquiry, Chief Kozak advised the 
accreditation may prove helpful when applying for grant funding.  Mr. Laybourn moved to approve 
and appreciate the Police Department’s accreditation application.  Concern was expressed related 
to approval of an item that hasn’t been previously reviewed.  Mayor Orr advised Chief Kozak sent 
an email with accreditation information and it can be re -sent to council members.  Motion failed 
due to lack of a second.  [Clerk’s note:  items that have not been reviewed by a standing committee 
are not eligible for consideration of approval by the governing body]    
 
 Mr. White reported the motion to adopt the following ordinance - Pursuant to Section 2.2.1 
Zoning Map Amendments, Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official 
Zoning Map of the Unified Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LR Low 
Density Residential to NR-2 Neighborhood Residential - Medium Density for the west half of Lot 
2 and all of Lot 3, Sunnyside Addition, 8 th Filing, Cheyenne, Wyoming (located at the  southeast 
corner of Dell Range Blvd. and Van Buren Ave.)  failed on 3 rd and final reading at the February 
10, 2020 City Council meeting.  Having voted on the prevailing side and pursuant to Chapter 2.04 
of City Code, Mr. White moved to reconsider the vote taken on the ordinance, seconded by Mr. 
Cook.  Mr. White advised he reviewed additional information involving the ordinance related to 
the required notification process and requested support for the motion to reconsider.  Motion failed 
  
due to a tie vote.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Cook, Mayor Orr, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White.  
Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna and Dr. Rinne. 
  
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:28 p.m.  
 
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 3, 2020 