MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2020-03-09 | CLIP_ID: 737 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 737

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 9, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.  Present were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Mike Luna, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  
Absent: Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne and Scott Roybal, Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  
The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 24, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from the Special  Meetings of the Governing Body on February 20, 25, 2020.  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing for a retail liquor license renewal application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Deep South LLC d/b/a Redwood Lounge, 2105 E. Lincolnway, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been 
met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapter  5.52, Massage Establishments, 
within Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr . Luna.  Motion  carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#4294) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapters 8.40, Food and Food Service 
Establishments, within Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, and Chapters 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, and 10.68, Critical 
Traffic and Parking Areas, within Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by 
Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4295) 
 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapters 10.12, Administration and 
Enforcement, 10.16, Arrest and Citation Procedure, 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking 
Generally, 10.60, Parking Limitations, 10.64, Loading and Unloading, within Title 10, Vehicles 
and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Shanor moved to 
approve on third and final  reading, seconded by M r. Cook.  Mr. Shanor  moved to amend by 
substitute dated March 5, 2020  which includes City Attorney’s office technical corrections , 
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. White commended Joe Chenchar, City Attorney’s office, for his work 
on the ordinance. Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing bod y 
present.  Main  motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. (#4296) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 10.12.130, City Traffic Engineer, of 
Chapter 10.12, Administration and Enforcement, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Shanor moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr.  Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Creating Section 2.04.200, Purchasing Policy, of 
Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  TJ Bartt elbort, Purchasing Man ager, provided 
information on the ordinance  explaining it specifically provides guidelines for elected officials, 
department directors and employees who may be involved in the procurement process and  
addresses violations which may result in disciplinary actions. Mr. Barttelbort provided additional 
information on the Purchasing Policy explaining it is over 60 pages in length  and receives  
occasional revisions and updates.  Adopting just the forwarding of the policy allows future changes 
without needing to update the ordinance .  He noted policy c ontent has recently been revised and 
department directors have had a chance to review and submit comments/concerns.  Upon inquiry, 
Michael O’Donnell, City Attorney , advised Administrative Procedur e Act requirements don’t 
apply to the policy as it is not considered rules and regulations.  Discussion followed and included: 
statutory requirements, possible s ituations involving procurements by elected official s and 
purchasing policy violations.  Upon inquiry Mr. Barttelbort advised the purchasing policy has been 
reviewed by dep artment directors and can be provided to the governing body.  Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of the South ½ of Section 36, T14N, R67W, 6th PM, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between 
Westland Road and I -25, adjacent to Crow Creek) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zon ing classification from County LI (Light Industrial) to P (Public 
District) for a tract of land generally located west of Westland Road at Crow Creek – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Secti on 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to MUB Mixed -
Use Business Emphasis for Lots 5,  6, 7, and 8, Block 271, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming 
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of West 20th Street and Bent Avenue) – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Pursuant to Section s 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 5.1.5.a -Detached Dwelling (“Single -
Family”) Lot Types and Building Standards to reduce the required frontage of Detached Dwelling 
(”Single-Family”) lots for DD7: Detached Dw elling/Small Lot Type from 48 feet to 40 feet and 
from 60 feet to 45 feet on corner lots – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Case) 
 
 [CA] RESOLUTION – Creating a Revolving Real Property Special Revenue Fund to account 
for the acquisitio n and resale of real property of the City of Cheyenne .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6039) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to approve and file the Wyoming 
Division of Victim Services Funding Application State Fiscal Year 2021 and 2022, July 1, 2020 
to June 30, 2022.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6040) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2020 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 & §16-4-113.  City Attorney Michael O’Donnell 
commented on the resolution noting some funding to be transferred to the Police Department from 
the Mayor’s discretionary account may no longer be available  due to an employee raise, funding 
for Police Department special events security has alre ady been accounted for  and the Police 
Department is unsure of what the funding is for .  Upon inquiry, City Treasurer Robin Lockman 
advised there hasn’t been a n employee raise given as of yet and the funding is still there.  She 
further explained an employe e raise can be paid for out of local meetings and/or professional 
development accounts because transfer of line item funding is allowed in d epartments and done 
without governing body approval and, if needed, a future reappropriation can be done to account 
for the raise.  Mr. Shanor provided information explaining in 2019 the Police Department charged 
$210,000.00 for special events security.  This  resolution attempts to create a line item to be used 
for putting money towards small special event security needs.  Comments were made related to 
how events are charged based on size and looking at improving the process for the future .  
Additional comments were made regarding the Police Department’s discretion of how funds are 
to be spent and what woul d determine equitable and fair charges for security services for special 
events.  Mr. Shanor moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#6041) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to accept as a gift a parcel of real 
property from JPK TR Cheyenne II, LLC – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – MR. 
Roybal and Mr. White) 
 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne Police Depart ment to become 
accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] CEREMONIAL RESOLUTION  – In recognition of the Honorable Jim Lynch for his 
Dedication and Outstanding Contributions to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and its Residents 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the Ci ty of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District Number One to provide transportation services for the Community Recreation & 
Events Summer Rec Camp Program (Recreation Program Fees).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7152) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Carbonhouse, LLC, d/b/a Carbonhouse, 
Charlotte, NC, for website design, development and website hosting services for the Cheyenne 
Events website (2015-2018 and 2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Sponsorship Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Spradley Barr Toyota for the 
2020-2021 Cheyenne Civic Center Broadway Series, Family Film Series Presenting Sponsor, 
Superday 2020 Kid Zone Exclusive Sponsor and as an Art Access Sponsor (revenue to the City) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Sponsorship Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HollyFrontier Cheyenne 
Refining LLC, to designate HollyFrontier as the presenting sponsor of Superday 2020, Superday 
Tour de Prairie and Superday 5k Walk/Run – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Human Services Agreement with United Way of Laramie County to provide services to 
various community programs (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Modification #2 to Contract #6986 between the City of Cheyenne and TC 
Solutions, LLC, for installation of approximately 42’ of new sanitary sewer pipe necessary for the 
Splash Pad  (General fund reserves) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-6-20 for furnishing a minimum of three (3) to a maximum of ten 
(10), lift -equipped transit vehicles, for the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division.  (FTA Transit 
Development Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -12-20 for furnishing one (1) new handheld mass spec chemical 
detection system for gas/vapor, liquids and solids, with accessories for the City of Cheyenne, 
Cheyenne Fire & Rescue Department, Hazmat Division (Homeland Security Grant) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-13-20 for furnishing one (1) new 2019-2020, 19,500 GVWR, cab 
& chassis with 45 foot aerial device body for the City of Cheyenne, Traffic Division (2015-2018 
1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-14-20 for furnishing two (2) new diesel powered 3-wheeled street 
sweepers with belt conveyors for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division  (2015-2018 1% 
Sales Tax)  – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Microbrewery liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Black Tooth 
Brewing Company, LLC d/b/a/ Black Tooth Brewing, 520 W. 19 th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA]  Renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, 
resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite distillery, winery and special malt beverage 
permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Appointments of Trent Carroll to the Board of Adjustment and Tyler McLachlan to the 
Tourism Promotion Joint Powers Board. Mr. Luna moved  to approve, seconded by Mr. White. 
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
 Under other business:  
 
 Mr. Cook noted the motion to adopt the following Resolution – Authorizing the Mayor and 
the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Alliance Addition, 4 th Filing, a replat of a portion of Lot 1, 
Block 1, Alliance Addition, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the northwest 
corner of the intersection of Ridge Road and Jackson Street), failed at the February 24, 2020 City 
Council meeting.  Having voted on the prevailing side and pursuant to Chapter 2.04 of City Code, 
Mr. Cook moved to reconsider the vote taken on the resolution, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Mr. Cook moved to postpone 
to March 23, 2020, seconded by Mr. Luna .  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
 Mayor Orr recognized former Councilman Don Pierson who was in attendance. 
 
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:26 p.m.  
 
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 18, 2020 