MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-04-13 | CLIP_ID: 741 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 741

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 13, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:07 p.m. via electronic conference meeting.  Attending via electronic conference meeting were:  
MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete 
Laybourn, Mike Luna,  Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,  Dicky Shanor and Jeff White .  Also 
attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Shanor and Mr. Case, agenda item #14 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna 
moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 23, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from the Special Meetings of the Governing Body on March 19, 2020.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE – EMERGENCY READING – Amending Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor 
and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, concerning the delivery of alcoholic liquor or malt beverages.  Mr. 
White moved to suspend the rules and hear this ordinance as an emergency ordinance pursuant to 
Wyoming State Statute 15-1-115(c), seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body.  Michael O’Donnell, City Attorney, provided details involving 
the proposed ordinance, noting it amends the existing ordinance and is restricted to a six month 
time frame.  Following comments regarding public comment availability relating to the electronic 
conference meeting, Mr. O’Donnell provided additional options for the public to provide 
comments/questions.  Comments were made regarding current revenue downfall for multiple types 
of businesses, compassion for business owners and employees during the Covid-19 Pandemic and 
mental health and substance abuse concerns related to the ordinance .  Upon inquiry, City Clerk 
Kris Jones explained that under the emergency ordinance procedure, three -quarters of the 
governing body must vote affirmatively in order for the ordinance to pass.   Mr. White moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. (#4299) 
 
  
ORDINANCE – EMERGENCY READING – Establishing enforcement provisions for the 
Wyoming Statewide Public Health orders related to the Covid-19 Pandemic.  Mr. White moved to 
suspend the rules and hear this ordinance as an emergency ordinance pursuant to Wyoming State 
Statute 15-1-115(c), seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body.  Michael O’Donnell, City Attorney, provided information relating to the 
proposed ordinance which would provide loca l authorities the ability to issue citations for 
violations under Municipal Code instead of under State Statute mandates, lowering the penalties.  
Mr. O’Donnell further explained that the intent is to encourage people to follow the recent orders 
put in place by the Governor regarding social distancing during the Covid-19 Pandemic.  Members 
of the public voiced concerns relating to the following: enforcement, constitution al rights, 
necessity, future recreational opportunities, public testing and community impacts from the Covid-
19 Pandemic, Health Department recommendations  and criminal versus civil convictions.  Mr. 
White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Laybourn .  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute 
dated April 13, 2020, seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by 
replacing Section 9 to read as follows: “This ordinance shall cease to be effective upon any Order, 
or aspect of any Order, when the Order or aspect ceases to be in effect” , seconded by Dr. Rinne.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exceptio n of Mr. 
Cook voting “no”.  Additional discussion topics included potential for a “stay at home order”, civil 
versus criminal convictions and community pressure for more and less restrictions.  Upon inquiry, 
Chief of Police Brian Kozak advised currently th e Police Department refers to the Health 
Department to address complaints related to social gatherings and they have not yet had to enforce 
state law.  He further stated the Police Department remains neutral towards the ordinance.   Main 
motion as twice amended failed due to a tie vote.  Voting “yes”  – Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, 
Mayor Orr, Dr. Rinne, Mr. White. Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mr. Roybal, and 
Mr. Shanor.      
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of the South ½ of Section 36, T14N, R67W, 6th PM, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between 
Westland Road and I-25, adjacent to Crow Creek).  Mark Christensen, Planning and Development, 
advised he was available for any questions.  Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
(#4300) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County LI (Light Industrial) to P (Public 
District) for a tract of land generally located west of Westland Road at Crow Cree k.  Mark 
Christensen, Planning and Development, explained the application accompanie s the previous 
agenda item (annexation request) and is for a zoning map amendment for 4 City parcels.  Mr. Case 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4301) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.1, Zoning Map Amendments, 
Section 5.1.2, Zoning Districts Established, and Section 5.1.3, Official Zoning Map of the Unified 
Development Code, changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to MUB Mixed-
  
Use Business Emphasis for Lots 5, 6, 7, and 8, Block 271, Original City, Cheyenne, Wyoming 
(located at the northwest corner of the intersection of West 20 th Street and Bent Avenue) . Seth 
Lloyd, Planning and Development , provided brief comments on the  proposed zone change area.   
Darin and Misha Westby spoke in support of the ordinance and expressed appreciation to the 
governing body and Planning and Development staff. Mr. Case moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion  carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4302) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Pursuant to Sections 1.1.6 and 2.4.1 of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC), amending Section 5.1.5.a -Detached Dwelling (“Single-
Family”) Lot Types and Building Standards to reduce the required frontage of Detached Dwelling 
(”Single-Family”) lots for DD7: Detached Dwelling/Small Lot Type from 48 feet to 40 feet and 
from 60 feet to 45 feet on corner lots .  Mark Christensen, Planning and Development, provided 
brief comments on the ordinance noting the reduction of required frontage of detached dwelling 
and corner lots.  Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Luna.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4303) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee 
Schedule. Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, summarized the proposed fee schedule and 
explained they propose to move forward with the Integrated Solid Waste Management Plan update.  
Ms. Nemecek added that with the current pandemic and associated quarantine, commercial 
businesses can opt to alter or suspend their pick-up service due to less accrued waste and residents 
can order an additional waste receptacle due to increased waste volume.  She noted the proposal 
includes moving forward with the $8 million landfill expansion project recommended as a part of 
the Integrated Solid Waste Management Plan of which the increased expenditure will result in an 
increase of $1.24 million transfer to the general fund.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek explained an 
email sent to the governing body with proposed increase rates represent the same annual 
recommended increases in the ordinance  and the proposed $1.24 million transfer to the general 
fund is approximately half a million dollars more than last year.  Upon further inquiry related to a 
higher increase to some services, Ms. Nemecek advised the Integrated Solid Waste consultant 
reviewed services and found that the City’s cost to provide the services was lower than what has 
been charged for those services.  She further noted that adjustments were made so that the service 
charge is the same as what it costs to provide the service.  Mr. Luna moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Luna voting “no”. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to accept as a gift a parcel of real 
property from JPK TR Cheyenne II, LLC. Mr. Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Case.  Dr. 
Rinne provided information on the parcel explaining it will be beneficial for the City to own it as 
it is adjacent to the Ice and Events Center.  He further explained this will be viable to future buyers, 
will assist in long term development of the property and abatement of existing structures will have 
to take place eventually.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”. (#6045)  
 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the City of Cheyenne’s Analysis of Impediments to Fair 
Housing Choice Prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office – 
referred to Public Services Committee.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6046) 
 
RESOLUTION – In appreciation of State and L ocal Leaders for their exceptional efforts 
during the Covid-19 Crisis.  Mr. Case advised this item was reviewed under other agenda items at 
the April 7, 2020 Public Services Committee meeting and provisions of City Code Title 2 had been 
met.  Mr. Case move d to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#6047) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Wyoming 
Association of Sheriffs and Chiefs of Police/Wyoming Department  of Transportation, Highway 
Safety Program, Selective Traffic Enforcement Grant Funding (Highway Safety Selective Traffic 
Enforcement Grant) (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Wyoming 
Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program, Grant Funding for the City’s Mobile 
D.U.I. Command Post (Highway Safety Mobile Command Grant) (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle 
Ridge, 15 th Filing, a replat of all of Lots 2 -10, Block 1, Saddle Ridge, 13 th Filing, Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of Saw Buck Road and Red 
Feather Trail) (Sponsor – Mr. Case) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Westby 
Edge, a replat of Lots, 5, 6, 7 and 8, Block 271, Original City, Cheyenne, Laramie County , 
Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of W. 20 th Street and Bent Avenue) (Sponsor – Mr. 
Case) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the ‘201 Agreement’ for the owner of the 
property located 7511 Tate Road to allow repair or replacement of an on-site septic system located 
within Laramie County (Sponsor – Mr. Case) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement with Woolpert, Inc., for Civil Engineering and Design 
Services for the F.E. Warren AFB Enhanced Use Lease Project on Happy Jack Road.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $394,560.00) (#7162) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and 
Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center  
(General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne  and Laramie County for the 
housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services Center located at the Archer 
Complex  (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
 
[CA] Grant agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and t he Corporation 
for National and Community Service, for the FY 2020 Foster Grandparent Program (FGP) 
Replacement Sponsor Program  (Foster Grandparent Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne , Laramie County , and C hristensen’s Inc., 
granting an access easement for use and maintenance of an access road and drainage conveyance 
across land owned by the City (revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne , Laramie Coun ty, and Christensen’s Inc., for 
driveway and drainage maintenance of an access road and drainage conveyance across land owned 
by the City – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 [CA] Consideration of Modification # 1 to Contract # 6933 between the City of Cheyenne and 
Vortex International Aquatic Play Solutions to extend the completion date.   Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6933) 
 
[CA] Modification #1 to Contract #7136 City of Cheyenne and State of Wyoming Department 
State Parks and Cultural Resource s, for grant agreement: Board and Staff Training: 2020 Saving 
Places Conference (SHPO Federal Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue to the 
City in an amount not to exceed $833.88). (#7136)    
 
[CA] Consideration of Modification #3 to Contract #6892 between Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates 
Architects for Additional Design Services and Historical Consulting for finish of the second floor 
of the Cheyenne Municipal Court Project (Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #7082 between the City of Cheyenne and Scotch 
Boy, Inc. for the Irrigation Controllers and Equipment Upgrade Project – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-8-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Recycled 
Materials, LLC, for the 101 Columbus Drive Demolition Project  (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax ).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Recycled Materials, LLC, Casper, WY, 
in an amount not to exceed $38,153.00). (#7163)  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-15-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Pine Bluffs 
Gravel & Excavating for furnishing Compost Facility Waste Hauling (Solid Waste Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee.    
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Under other business: 
 
  
 Mr. Esquibel inquired into the possibility of opening softball fields for practice with similar 
social distancing restrictions that the golf course currently has in place.  Mayor Orr explained that 
violations of the Governor’s order related to social distancing were occurring at the softball fields, 
noting teams can’t gather at the fields. 
 
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:15 p.m.  
 
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 22, 2020 