MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-04-27 | CLIP_ID: 743 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 743

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 27, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:07 p.m. via electronic conference meeting .  Attending electronic conference meeting  were:  
MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete 
Laybourn, Mike Luna,  Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal,  Dicky Shanor and Jeff White .  Also 
attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Roybal, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Shanor and Mr. Cook, agenda items #17(d) and #17(e) were removed from the 
Consent Agenda.  Mr. White moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
 
Comments were made related to public comment on agenda items.  Michael Skinner 
provided information on the raising hand function using WebEx.   
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 13, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee 
Schedule. Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, advised she was available for any questions 
and recommended approval of the ordinance. Mr. Luna confirmed he continues to oppose increases 
to the solid waste fees.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to approve  on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Luna voting “no”. (#4304) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 10.56, Handicapped Parking Spaces, 
within Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Approving and establishing an amendment  to the 
Temporary Permit Process contained in Title 5 of City Code (Sponsors – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. 
Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor & Mr. White) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Wyoming 
Association of Sheriffs and Chiefs of Police/Wyoming Department of Transportation, Highway 
  
Safety Program, Selective Traffic Enforcement Grant Funding (Highway Safety Selective Traffic 
Enforcement Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6048) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Wyoming 
Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program, Grant Funding for the City’s Mobile 
D.U.I. Command Post (Highway Safety Mobile Command Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6049) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Saddle 
Ridge, 15 th Filing, a replat of all of Lots 2 -10, Block 1, Saddle Ridge, 13 th Filing, Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of Saw Buck Road and Red 
Feather Trail).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6050) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Westby 
Edge, a replat of Lots, 5, 6, 7 and 8, Block 271, Original City, Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located at the northwest corner of W. 20 th Street and Bent Avenue) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6051) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to  the ‘201 Agreement’ for the owner of the 
property located 7511 Tate Road to allow repair or replacement of an on-site septic system located 
within Laramie County.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6052) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Providing for Public Safety Services at Cheyenne Frontier Days and 
Compensation to the City.  Tom Hirsig, CEO of CFD, voiced appreciation to those involved with 
preparation and compromising efforts.  Reporting for the Public Services Committee, Mr. Case 
advised this item was reviewed under other items  for the agenda at the April 21, 2020 Public 
Services Committee meeting, therefore  provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met .  Mr.  
Case move to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Case moved to amend by substitute dated April 
27, 2020, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Mr. Case advised the substitute clarifies language related to the 
technicalities as to what the Memorandum of Understanding ( MOU) will accomplish.  Chief  of 
Police Brian Kozak expressed support for the proposed substitute which allows for staffing  
considerations, provides  collaboration with C heyenne Frontier Days (C FD) and protects City 
liability with the annual event.  Chief Kozak expressed appreciation to Tom Hirsig and Pat Crank 
for working with the City on the details of the MOU.  Mr. H irsig advised he supports the 
substitution.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body.  Mr. Hirsig, upon inquiry, reported CFD has not made a final determination whether the 
annual CFD event will take place this year due to the Covid -19 pandemic.  Mr. Case voiced 
opposition to the inquiry of whether CFD will occur this year as he believes the comments weren’t 
germane to the MOU topic.  Mayor Orr overruled Mr. Case’s comment.  Mr. Hirsig further advised 
he doesn’t have an answer as to when an announcement wou ld take place, not ing CFD will 
continue to work with the City, County and State Health departments for guidance.  Upon further 
inquiry, Mr. Hirsig advised he anticipates a decision will be made by or during the first week of 
June.   Concern was expressed relating to the process utilized to consider the Resolution and MOU 
noting the item did not go before the Finance Committee and was brought up under Public Services 
Committee other items for the agenda, limit ing the public’s ability to participate and comment.  
  
Mr. Case advised the issue has been in need of resolution for months whether CFD happens this 
year or not, noting the MOU is for a 5 year term.  Comments were made regarding established 
processes and lack of communication between Council members.  Upo n inquiry, Michael 
O’Donnell, City Attorney, advised the practice is not ideal in terms of bi nding future governing 
bodies relating to financial decisions.  Mr. O’Donnell reported it is acceptable for future 
amendments and reconsideration by future governing bodies, noting the proposed Resolution and 
MOU contain language which allows CFD or the City to dissolve the agreement.  Upon inquiry, 
Mayor Orr advised budgetary decisions are made by recommendations of the City Treasurer which 
are either approved or denied by the governing body.  Comments were voiced that not all members 
of the governing body and City  staff members received notification of the proposal  in the 
Resolution or MOU.  Mr. Case moved to call for the question, seconded by M r. Luna.  Upon 
inquiry, Kris Jones, City Clerk, advised a motion to call for the question  is non-debatable and 
requires a 2/3 affirmative vote of those present.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr and Mr. Shanor voting “no”.  Main motion 
as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. 
Laybourn and Mayor Orr voting “no”.  (Res. #6053/MOU #7169) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – In appreciation of the teachers of L aramie County School District 
Number One and Laramie County Community College for their exceptional efforts during the 
Covid-19 Pandemic (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Willow 
Heights, a replat of Lot 14, Block 5, Homestead Addition, First Filing Replat, Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located south of Homestead Avenue, between Henderson Drive and Hanson 
Street) (Sponsor – Mr. Case) – referred to Public Services Committee.    
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and 
Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center  
(General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (# 7165) 
 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne  and Laramie County for the 
housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services Center located at the Archer 
Complex (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7166) 
 
[CA] Grant agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Youth Alternatives, and the Corporation 
for National and Community Service, for the FY 2020 Foster Grandparent Program (FGP) 
Replacement Sponsor Program  (Foster Grandparent Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(revenue to the City in the amount of $318,375.00). (#7167) 
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne , Laramie County , and Christensen’s Inc., 
granting an access easement for use and maintenance of an access road and drainage conveyance 
across land owned by the City (revenue to the City) .  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by 
Mr. White.  Mr. Luna moved to postpone  to May 5, 2020, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to 
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  (Clerk’s note: clarification 
of postponed date on following agenda item)   
  
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne , Laramie County , and Christensen’s Inc., for 
driveway and drainage maintenance of an access road and drainage conveyance across land owned 
by the City. Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Luna moved to postpone 
to May 11, 2020, seconded by Mr. Cook. City Clerk Kris Jones clarified both agenda items #17(d) 
and #17(e) will be postponed to May 11th.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Leader Custom Homes, LLC, 
for regrading, installation and construction of sidewalks, utilities, drainage features and 
landscaping on City property in conjunction with development of the Willow Heights Subdivision 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Maintenance Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Leader Custom Homes, LLC, 
for maintenance of improvements made upon land owned by the City in the area of the Willow 
Heights Subdivision – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Consideration of Modification #3 to Contract #6892 between Noel Griffith Jr. & Associates 
Architects for Additional Design Services and Historical Consulting for finish of the second floor 
of the Cheyenne Municipal Court Project  (Specific Purpose Sales & Use Tax ).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $16,120.00). (#6892) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #7082 between the City of Cheyenne and Scotch 
Boy, Inc. for the Irrigation Controllers and Equipment Upgrade Project .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7082) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to  Contract #6798 between the City of Cheyenne and Trihydro 
Corporation, Laramie, Wyoming, for Happy Jack Landfill Environmental Monitoring Services 
(Solid Waste Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Extension Agreement to the Community Counseling and Interventio n Services 
Agreement (City Contract No. 6266) between the City of Cheyenne Youth Alternatives Division 
and Laramie County School District Number One (revenue to the City) – referred to Finance 
Committee.    
 
 [CA] Consideration of Bid #E-15-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Pine Bluffs 
Gravel & Excavating for furnishing Compost Facility Waste Hauling (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Pine Bluffs Gravel & Excavating in an amount 
not to exceed $158,597.13). (#7168)    
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-9-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and 4 Quarters 
Excavation & Development, for the Henderson Greenway Connector Project (Specific Purpose 
Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
  
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement of Public Hearing was made to be held May 11, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. via 
electronic conference meeting, in Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a transfer of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Ace Majestic, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and 
Package Liquors, 2105 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by Deep South 
LLC d/b/a Redwood Lounge) 
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Mr. Luna requested announcement of the following items – 
 ORDINANCE - approving and establishing amendments to various portions of Title 6 of 
City Code to redefine animal owner and amend fee structure – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 RESOLUTION - recommending a salary reduction for the City’s Governing Bod y – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Orr commented on positive notes and comments she has received from the 
community recently in appreciation of the Governing Body and City employees. 
 
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:44 p.m.  
 
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  May 6, 2020 