MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-05-11 | CLIP_ID: 746 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 746

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 11, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:07 p.m. via electronic conference meeting.  Attending electronic conference meeting  were:  
MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete 
Laybourn, Mike Luna,  Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal,  Dicky Shanor and Jeff White .  Also 
attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk.    
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.  Upon request by Mr.  Laybourn, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Shanor and Mr. Roybal, agenda items #22 (c) and #22 (d) were removed from the 
Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.   Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
 
[CA] Minutes from Regul ar Meeting of the Governing Body on April 27, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing for transfer of retail liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Ace Majestic, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package Liquors, 2105 
E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by Deep South LLC d/b/a Redwood 
Lounge).  There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor 
Orr closed the hearing and referred the application to the Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 10.56, Handicapped Parking Spaces, 
within Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming 
(Sponsor – Mr. White).  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr.  Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the  governing 
body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Approving and establishing an amendment  to the 
Temporary Permit Process contained in Title 5 of City Cod e.  Mr. Luna moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Mr. Luna moved to amend by substitute dated May 5, 
2020, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Mr. Shanor explained the  proposed substitute reflects changes 
agreed upon between the City and Cheyenne Frontier Days.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  Main motion as 
amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the 
exception of Mr. Laybourn “no”. 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Approving and establishing amendments to va rious 
portions of Title 6 of City Code to redefine animal owner and amend fee structure .  Mr. Luna 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Comments were made regarding 
having additional communication between the City and the Animal Shelter relating to their annual 
budget.  Mr. Shanor explained the ordinance  addresses enforcement, defines animal ownership 
and raises certain fees and reported representatives from the Animal Shelter advised members of 
the Finance Committee that they support the proposed amendments.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Approving and establishing revised wat er and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021 – referred 
to Committee of the Whole. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Sections 1.4.3, 2.1.1, 2.1.2, and 4.2.5 of the 
Unified Development Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to define and clarify the purpose 
of remainder lots – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 2.2.6 of the Unified Development 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to modify time limits associated with temporary uses – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Sections of Article 2 of the Unified 
Development Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to modify posted notice requirements for 
site plans and administrative approvals, clarify procedures for modification of site plans, modify 
authority to initiate text amendments, and modify criteria for variance approval – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
 RESOLUTION – In appreciation of the teachers of Laramie County School District 
Number One and Laramie County Community College for their exceptional efforts during the 
Covid-19 Pandemic .  Reporting for Public Services C ommittee, Mr. Case moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr.  Luna.  Mr. Laybourn advised the proposed substitute includes the addition of 
other leaders and community members who have provided outstanding education al services 
relating to the current Covid -19 Pandemic for the youth of our community.  Mr. Case moved to 
amend by substitute, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carr ied.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. (#6054) 
 
  
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Willow 
Heights, a replat of Lot 14, Block 5, Homestead Addition, First Filing Replat, Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located south of Homestead Avenue, between Henderson Drive and Hanson  
Street) (Sponsor – Mr. Case).  Mr. Case moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Case moved 
to amend by revised final plat map dated May 4, 2020, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Mr. Case moved to postpone to May 26, 2020, 
seconded by Mr. Shanor. Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
 RESOLUTION - Recommending a salary reduction for the City’s Governing Body .  Mr. 
Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  White.  Comments were made in regard to the proposed 
resolution relating to: process involving communication between members of the governing body, 
questions involving constitutionality, lack of City Attorney’s office support, general support of 
proposed amendments made at the May 4, 2020 Finance Committee, and confirmation that the 
proposal affects all members of the City Council.  Mr. Luna moved to amend by substitute authored 
by Councilman Shanor which revised the Now Therefore, Be It Resolved clause by striking #1 
and replacing it with: 1. The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne believes it is important for 
all members of the Governing Body to lead by example and incur a reduction in pay commensurate 
with the city department global percentage cut of 13% proposed in Mayor Orr’s FY 2021 budget 
proposal, and by adding a new Section #2 in the Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved clause to read as 
follows: 2.  All members of the Governing Body are encouraged to remit 13% of their salaries to 
the general fund each month of FY 2021 fiscal year , seconded by Mr.  Shanor.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Mr. Luna moved to amend by replacing 
“Governing Body” with “City Council”, removing the Mayor, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Moti on 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Mr. Luna moved to amend the Now 
Therefore, Be It Resolved clause, Section 2, to read as follows: “All members of the City Council 
are encouraged to remit 13% of their salaries which will sunset on December 31, 2020”, seconded 
by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to amend carrie d with all members of the governing body voting “yes” .  
Mr. Luna moved to amend the Now Therefore, Be It Resolved clause, Section 2, by replacing 
“general fund” with “Forward Greater Cheyenne Emergency Relief Fund”, seconded by Mr.  
Shanor.  Mayor Orr, upon inquiry, advised that due to the City’s current payroll process, the City 
will not be making the transfer of funds and that members of the City Council wanting to contribute 
to the Forward Greater Cheyenne Emergency Relief Fund are individually responsible to make 
those contributions.  Motion to amend carried with  all members of the governing body voting 
“yes”.  Additional comments were made on the following topics:  amendment s made, 
constitutionality of resolution, policy, procedure and communication concerns, efforts in sharing 
a message that the governing body shares the community’s concerns and requests for increased 
transparency.  Main motion, as amended four times, carried with all members of the governing 
body voting “yes” with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  (#6055) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Coronavirus 
Emergency Supplemental Funding Program Grant Funding  – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the City of Cheyenne Comprehensive Consolidated Plan 2020-
2024 and 2020 Annual Action Plan, prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community 
Development Office (Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD) Grant ) – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department 
of Transportation for a Wyoming Bus and Bus Facilities Program Grant, 49 U.S.C. §5339, for the 
purchase of a facility to be used as a Tr ansit Administrative Office and Bus Transfer Station  (49 
U.S.C. §5339 Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Center 
Point Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a replat of Lots 1 thru 7, Block 1, inclusive, Center Point Subdivision, 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of the intersection of Homestead Avenue and 
Eda Place) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
 Agreement between  the City of Cheyenne , Laramie County , and Christensen’s Inc., 
granting an access easement for use and maintenance of an access road and drainage conveyance 
across land owned by the City (revenue to the City) .  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by 
Mr. White.    Mr. Luna moved to postpone to May 26, 2020, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to 
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne , Laramie County , and Christensen’s Inc., for 
driveway and drainage maintenance of an access road and drainage conveyance across land owned 
by the City. Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Luna moved to postpone 
to May 26, 2020 , seconded by M r. Roybal.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
 Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Leader Custom Homes, LLC, 
for regrading, installation and construction of sidewalks, utilities, drainage features and 
landscaping on City property in conjunction with development of the Willow Heights Subdivision.  
Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Kris Jones, City Clerk, requested 
clarification on a proposed postponement.  Charles Bloom, Planning & Development Director,  
advised the applicant has requested a postponement for agenda items #22 (c) and #22 (d).   Mr. 
Luna moved to postpone to May 26, 2020 , S econded by Mr. Laybourn.  Motion to postpone 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 Maintenance Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Leader Custom Homes, LLC, 
for maintenance of improvements made upon land owned by the City in the area of the Willow 
Heights Subdivision.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. Luna mov ed to 
postpone to May 26, 2020, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Hunter Management Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Game & 
Fish Commission to allow public access for hunting on the Belvoir Ranch – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
  
  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Seon System Sales, Inc., d/b/a FleetMind 
Solutions, Coquitlam, British Columbia, for a Solid Waste Services Route Management & Work 
Management System to include Software, Hardware, and Professional Services (Solid Waste 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc., for the use of city-owned land and buildings for parking, camping, and other activities 
during the 2020 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Waste Management of Colorado, Inc., Denver, 
CO, for Waste Management R ecycling Services (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee.   
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to  Contract #6798 between the City of Cheyenne and Trihydro 
Corporation, Laramie, Wyoming, for Happy Jack Landfill Environmental Monitoring Services 
(Solid Waste Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$58,795.00). (#6798) 
 
[CA] Contract Extension Agreement to the Community Counseling and Intervention Services 
Agreement (City Contract No. 6266) between the City of Cheyenne Youth Alternatives Division 
and Laramie County School District Number One (revenue to the City) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried.  (#6266) 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6836 between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield for 
group health insurance benefits for City employees – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
CA] Renewal of Contract #6837  between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental for group 
dental insurance benefits for City employees – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-9-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and 4 Quarters 
Excavation & Development, for the Henderson Greenway Connector Project (Specific Purpose 
Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried  (in an amount not to exceed $167,442.69). 
(#7170) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # E-18-20 for furnishing LED Lighting Equipment for the City of 
Cheyenne, Aquatics Center  (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # E-19-20 for five (5) new ten ya rd tandem dump trucks with 
spreaders and snow plows for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division  (2015-2018 1% Sales 
Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # E-20-20 for three (3) new 2020 -2021 twin-screw diesel powered 
cab & chassis for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division  (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid # E-21-20 for 2020-2021 cab & chassis, single arm & dual arm 
automated loaders for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division  (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # E-22-20 for 2020-2021 ½ ton, 4 door crew cab, full size pickup 
trucks, 4x4, 6 ½ foot box, with Fleet Work Package for the City of Cheyenne, Compliance Division 
and Sanitation Division  (General Fund & Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-24-20 for furnishing Bituminous Asphalt Hot Mix, Tack Oil and 
Cold Mix on an annual basis for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division  (2015-2018 1% 
Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-25-20 for furnishing Aggregates on an  annual basis for the City 
of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division  (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Request to expand seating area for consumption relating to restaurant liquor license held 
by Central Café LLC d/b/a Central Caf é, 3920 Central Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to 
Finance Committee.      
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Memorial Day holiday and City offices being 
closed on Monday, May 25, 2020, the regularly scheduled City Council  meeting will instead be 
held on Tuesday, May 26, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. via electronic conference meeting. 
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Mayor Orr commented on challenges o f present electronic conference meetings and 
advised she will be in contact with the City/County Health Department relating to having meetings 
of the governing body in the Civic Center which could allow for social distancing.  She reported 
the Wyoming State Legislature will face  similar challenges later this week when they convene 
during a special session.   
 
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:01 p.m.  
 
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
  
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  May 19, 2020 