MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-05-26 | CLIP_ID: 748 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 748

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 26, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:07 p.m. via electronic conference meeting.  Attending electronic conference meeting  were:  
MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook,  Pete Laybourn, 
Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Absent:  Ken Esquibel.  
Also attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk.    
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Luna, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Case and Mr. Cook, agenda item #29 (c) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon 
request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook and Mr. White, agenda 
item #18 was removed from the Consent Agenda.   Mr. White moved to approve remaining items, 
seconded by Mr . Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing  body 
present.   
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 11, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on May 13, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapter 10.56, Handicapped Parking Spaces, 
within Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to approve on third and reading, seconded by 
Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#4305)  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Approving and establishing an amendment  to the 
Temporary Permit Process contained in Title 5 of City Code.  Mr. Luna moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion  carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. [Clerk’s note: no verbal 
vote from Mr. Shanor was recorded.]  (#4306)  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Approving and establishing amendments to various 
portions of Title 6 of City Code to redefine animal owner and amend fee structure .  Mr. Luna 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr . White.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#4307)  
 
  
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities .  Mr. 
Luna moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”.   
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021.  Reporting 
for Committee of the Whole, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading , seconded by Mr. 
Cook.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to June 8, 2020, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to postpone 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present.  Dr. Rinne advised the next 
Committee of the Whole meeting for this agenda item will be held Wednesday June 10, 2020 at 
6:00 p.m. via electronic conference meeting.     
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Sections 1.4.3, 2.1.1, 2.1.2, and 4.2.5 of the 
Unified Development Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to define and clarify the purpose 
of remainder lots .  Reporting for Public Services Committee , Mr. Case  moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.    
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 2.2.6 of the Unified Development 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to modify time limits associated with temporary uses . 
Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.   
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Sections of Article 2 of the Unified 
Development Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to modify posted notice requirements for 
site plans and administrative approvals, clarify procedures for modification of site plans, modify 
authority to initiate text amendments, and modify criteria for variance approval.  Mr. Case moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present.   
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 5.12.110, Open Container-Sales and 
Consumption-Exceptions, and Section 5.12.120, Special Use Areas -Special Event Permit of 
Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor an d Malt Beverages, of Title 4, Business Licenses and 
Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. (Sponsors – Mr. Case & 
Mr. White) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 8.40.063, Food Service 
Establishments-Sidewalk Cafes, of Chapter 8.40, Food and Food Service Establishments, of Title 
8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. (Sponsors – Mr. 
Case & Mr. White) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Granting a Non-Exclusive Franchise to Union Telephone 
Company within the rights-of-way of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  (Sponsor – Mr. White) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Willow 
Heights, a replat of Lot 14, Block 5, Homestead Addition, First Filing Replat, Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located south of Homestead Avenue, between Henderson Drive and Hanson  
Street) (Postponed from May 11, 2020) Mr. Case moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#6056) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Coronaviru s 
Emergency Supplemental Funding Program Grant Funding .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6057) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the City of Cheyenne Comprehensive Consolidated Plan 2020-
2024 and 2020 Annual Action Plan, prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community 
Development Office (Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD) Grant).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6058) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department 
of Transportation for a Wyoming Bus and Bus Facilities Program Grant, 49 U.S.C. §5339, for the 
purchase of a facility to be used as a Transit Administrative  Office and Bus Transfer Station (49 
U.S.C. §5339 Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6059) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Center 
Point Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a replat of Lots 1 thru 7, Block 1, inclusive, Center Point Subdivision, 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of the intersection of Homestead Avenue and 
Eda Place).  Mr. Case moved to adopt with staff condition #1, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with the exception of Mr. 
Laybourn voting “no”.  (#6060)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Temporarily suspending Resolution No. 6023 which establishes that all 
revenue from City Contract No. 5902 to be split evenly between the City of Cheyenne Solid Waste 
Enterprise fund, the Board of Public Utilities, and the newly established Belvoir Ranch Recreation 
Special Revenue Fund.  (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Temporarily suspending Resolution No. 5635 which establishes 
guidelines for the maximum amount of excess revenue that may be collected for the operatio n of 
Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fund.  (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Declaring June 2020 as 307 First Month.  (Sponsors – Mr. Case, Mr. 
Cook, Mr. Laybourn & Mr. White) - referred to Public Services Committee.      
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the 
Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021.  (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) – referred to 
  
Finance Committee. 
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne , Laramie County, and Christensen’s Inc., 
granting an access easement for use and maintenance of an access road and drainage conveyance 
across land owned by the City (revenue to the City) . (Postponed from May 11, 2020)  Mr. Luna 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  White.  Mr. Luna moved to amend by substitute dated  May 
18, 2020, seconded by Mr. Cook. Upon inquiry, Charles Bloom, Planning and Development 
Director, advised the amendment is to recognize a necessary BOPU waterline easement recorded 
as recommended in the Engineering plan review.  Mr. Bloom reported staff worked with applicant 
and Engineer’s office to change language in the agreement and on the exhibit.  Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present.  Main motion as amended 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#7174) 
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne , Laramie County , and Christensen’s Inc., for 
driveway and drainage maintenance of an access road and drainage conveyance across land owned 
by the City . (Postponed from May 11, 2020).  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  
Laybourn.  Mr. Luna moved to amend by substitute dated May 18, 2020, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  
Upon inquiry, Charles Bloom, Planning and Development Director, explained the amendment is 
to recognize a waterline easement as discussed in the previous agenda item.  Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present.  Main motion as amended 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#7175) 
 
 Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Leader Custom Homes, LLC, 
for regrading, installation and construction of sidewalks, utilities, drainage features and 
landscaping on City property in conjunction with development of the Willow Heights Subdivision. 
(Postponed from May 11, 2020) Mr. Luna moved to approve  in an amount not to exceed 
$49,074.00, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. Luna moved to amend by striking #2 (A) and re-lettering 
and by removing the 2 nd, 3rd, 4th & 5th sentences in the 2nd paragraph of the 04-27-20 staff memo 
relating to compensation of property u se, seconded by Mr. White.  Charles Bloom, Planning and 
Development Director,  explained the  applicant requested the compensation requirement be 
withdrawn from the development agreement.  Casey Palma, Steil Surveying, agent for the 
applicant, advised the project will allow for infill development .  Support was expressed for  the 
requirement for compensation but not for this particular project.  It was noted  this is an unusual 
site with the development being adjacent to Greenway and that there may be occasions when use 
of City property should be paid for by developer .  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body  present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#7176) 
 
 Maintenance Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Leader Custom Homes, LLC, 
for maintenance of improvements made upon land owned by the City in the area of the Willow 
Heights Subdivision (Postponed from May 11, 2020).  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by 
Mr. Laybourn.  Mr. Luna moved to amend by striking #2 (A) in Exhibit A and re-lettering and by 
removing the 2nd, 3rd, 4th & 5th sentences in the 2nd paragraph of the 04-27-20 staff memo relating 
to compensation of property use , seconded by Mr. White.  Charles Bloom, Director of Planning 
and Development,  advised the amendment is t o align the development and maintenance 
  
agreement, noting the amendment mirrors the previous agenda item amendment.  Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present.  Main motion as amended 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#7177) 
 
 Hunter Management Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Game & 
Fish Commission to allow public access for hunting on the Belvoir Ranch.  Vicki Nemecek, Public 
Works Director, explained this is a renewal of a contract that expires June 30 th and explained the 
contract noting it provides revenue to the City.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Nemecek explained  at the 
present time, fishing is not allowed on the land and reported the type of hunting and fishing allowed 
at the location is determined by the Wyoming Game & Fish Department, noting pheasants have 
been approved but no t waterfowl.  Mr. Luna moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$14,185.00, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. Luna moved to amend by adding “game birds” to the 
approved species list, seconded by Mr . Roybal.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body  present.   Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present.   (#7178) 
  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Seon System Sales, Inc., d/b/a FleetMind 
Solutions, Coquitlam, British Columbia, for a Solid Waste Services Route Management & Work 
Management System to include Software, Hardware, and Professional Services (Solid Waste 
Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $297,750.00). (#7179) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Un derstanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc., for the use of city-owned land and buildings for parking, camping, and other activities 
during the 2020 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $11,000.00). (#7180) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Waste Management of Colorado, Inc., Denver, 
CO, for Waste Management Recycling Services (Solid Waste Fund) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7181) 
 
[CA] A Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES ACT) Airport Grant 
Agreement between the United States of America Federal Aviation Administration, the City of 
Cheyenne, The County of Laramie and The Cheyenne Regional Airport Board (CARES ACT 
Airport Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 2020-2021 Collective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne 
Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters.  Mr. Luna advised 
the item was reviewed under other  items for the agenda at the May 18, 2020 Finance Committee 
meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#7182) 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6836 between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield for 
group health insurance benefits for City employees.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6836) 
 
  
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6837  between the City of Cheyenne and Delta D ental for group 
dental insurance benefits for City employees.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6837) 
 
 [CA] Contract Modification # 3 to Contract #6918 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI 
Constructions of Wyoming, LLC, to remove Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment (FF&E) Budget 
(Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Contract #6924 between the City of Cheyenne and TC 
Solutions, LLC, to add purchase and management of furniture, equipment, building 
commissioning, moving and signage .  (Specific Purpose Sales Tax)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6927 between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming 
Homeland Security for the Cheyenne Regional Emergency Response Team #7 extending the term 
of the grant through December 31, 2020.  (DHS Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6976 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corporation for additional construction servi ces of the Evers Boulevard Reconstruction Project 
(2018-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # E-18-20 for furnishing LED Lighting Equipment for the City of 
Cheyenne, Aquatics Center (2011-2014 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Constellation Lighting, Houston, TX in an amount not exceed $57,725.00). 
 
 Consideration of  Bid # E-19-20 for five (5) new ten yard tandem dump trucks with 
spreaders and snow plows for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2015-2018 1% Sales 
Tax).  James Balzer, Peterbilt of Wyoming, provided detailed history and current information 
relating to past and current bid specifications for city equipment and  the bidding process.  He 
further expanded on qualifying and non -compliant competitors, bid processes regionally with 
respect to specifications, vendor preferences, and voiced support for the City’s bidding process.   
Patrick Crank, legal representative for Floyd’s Truck Center, voiced objection to awarding the bid 
to Peterbilt of Wyoming, noting he authored a letter on behalf of his client which was provided to 
members of the governing body.  Mr. Crank cited specific objections to various equipment 
specifications including required location of mirror mount placement of side mirrors, history of 
equipment bids awarded by the City, truck length, cab configuration, bid quotes  and p otential 
funding savings to the City and Floyd’s  Truck Center’s ability to satisfy bid  qualifications.  
Michael Gillam, Floyd ’s Truck Center, expressed objections to the City’s bidding process, 
specification qualifications, past bid award history and provided details regarding equipment 
differences between Peterbilt and Freightliner equipme nt.  Mr. Gillam advised he feels City 
equipment bids contain narrow specification writing making it difficult for vendors other than 
Peterbilt to be successful bidders for the City.  Randy Hickman, Street & Alley Manager, advised 
an equipment comparison was held on Wednesday, May 20th in which members of the governing 
body were invited to attend.  Mr. Hickman provided an explanation of bid requirements in terms 
of size requirement and noted a “dog house” means the engine is partially in the cab.  Mr. Hickman 
advised the “dog house” requirement provides more leg room  which is v ery important  and 
placement of mirror mounts can prevent shaking and vibration issues, noting safety is priority.  He 
  
further advised that w orking during snowstorm s is difficult with li mited visibility and the City 
can’t afford to compromise vision with mirror placement.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Hickman and Bryan 
Bell, Fleet Maintenance Manager, provided additional specification details and history of lifecycle 
for large equipment .  V icki Nemecek, Public Works Director, provided City bid history 
information and details relating to snow plows and sanitation trucks.  Ms. Nemecek reported there 
are 2 examples from last year of bids awarded to Floyd’s Truck Center w hich resulted in their 
inability to deliver equipment as represented and could not meet specifications.   She further 
elaborated on equipment requirement needs and specification compliance .  Mr. Luna moved to 
accept the bid from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $1,263,725.00, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal .  Members of the governing body provided comments relating to the 
following topics:  Specification writing currently being done in house and inquired about options 
for 3rd party specification writing, different opinions regarding recent equipment demonstration, 
legal obligations involving bid award process, concerns over equipment cost differences and minor 
equipment requirements.  M otion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governi ng body 
present with the exception of Mr. Case and Mr. Luna voting “no”.   
 
 Consideration of Bid # E-20-20 for three (3) new 2020 -2021 twin-screw diesel powered  
cab & chassis for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund).  Michael Gillam, 
Floyd’s Truck Center, noted the same principals apply to this bid as the previous bid (plow trucks) 
and advised he feels the specifications were written narro wly.  James Balzer, Peterbilt of 
Wyoming, reported equipment by  Peterbilt and Kenworth are built separate in multiple ways, 
noting many vendors meet City specifications.   Upon inquiry, Vicki Nemec ek, Public Works 
Director, reported it is common for special equipment to be specified for sanitation equipment, 
noting issues exist with operations involving trash pick up and landfill dumping.  She further stated 
the Public Works Department is not opposed to having a 3 rd party bid specification writer, noting 
currently funding is unavailable for this service.  Discussion topics included:  Types of and 
placement of equipment, specification requirements, lifecycle of equipment and landfill equipment 
necessities.  Mr. Luna moved to accepted bid from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, in an amount 
not to exceed $441,700.00, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Case and Mr. Luna voting “no”.    
 
 Consideration of Bid # E-21-20 for 2020-2021 cab & chassis, single arm & dual arm 
automated loaders for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund ).  Michael 
Gillam, Floyd’s Truck Center, and James Balzer, Peterbilt of Wyoming, spoke in sup port of the 
bid being awarded to Peterbilt of Wyoming.   Mr. Luna moved to accept the bid from Peterbilt of 
Wyoming, Cheyenne,  in an amount not to exceed $1,898,610.00 , seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  
Comments were made regarding specification writing process involving desire for a 3 rd party 
writer/review.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with 
the exception of Mr. Case and Mr. Luna voting “no”.   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # E-22-20 for 2020-2021 ½ ton, 4 door cr ew cab, full size pickup 
trucks, 4x4, 6 ½ foot box, with Fleet Work Package for the City of Cheyenne, Compliance Division 
and Sanitation Division (General Fund & Solid Waste Fund).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried ( accepted bid from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, in an amount not  to exceed 
$133,492.00). 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-24-20 for furnishing Bituminous Asphalt Hot Mix, Tack Oil and 
Cold Mix on an annual basis for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2015-2018 1% 
Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( accepted bids from Knife River d/b/a JTL 
Group Inc., Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $29,000.00 (cold mix) and Simon Contractors, 
Cheyenne, in an amount not exceed $312,854.40 (hot mix and tack oil)).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-25-20 for furnishing Aggregates on an annual basis for the City 
of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accepted bid from Knife River d/b/a JTL Group Inc. , Cheyenne, in an  amount not to 
exceed $36,250.00). 
 
[CA] Transfer of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Ace 
Majestic, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package Liquors, 2105 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming (license currently held by Deep South LLC d/b/a Redwood Lounge).   Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Request to expand seating area for consumption relating to restaurant liquor license held 
by Central Café LLC d/b/a Central Café, 3920 Central Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made  of Public Hearing to be held June 8, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. via 
electronic conference meeting, for a transfer of retail liquor license application filed with the City 
Clerk’s Office for Big D Oil Co., d/b/a Big D Oil #29, 100 North Greeley Hwy., Cheyenne, 
Wyoming. (license currently held by Appaloosa Enterprises LLC d/b/a Sanford’s Grub & Pub). 
 
Announcement was made  of Public Hea ring to be held June 8, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. via 
electronic conference meeting, for a bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City 
Clerk’s Office for Appaloosa Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Sanford’s Grub & Pub, 115 E. 17 th St., 
Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
 Under other business: 
 
  Mr. White inquired if there is a plan in place for when  the City Municipal Building will 
re-open and when the governing body and public may meet again in person.  Mike O’Donnell, 
City Attorney, advised the decision to re-open the Municipal Building is driven by the Governor’s 
statewide health orders.  He noted currently the City is practicing under P hase I which doesn’t 
allow for public meetings and advised it is anticipated that additional information will be released 
this week regarding status of re-opening under Phase II.  Upon further clarification, Mr. O’Donnell 
explained part of the difficulty currently is high risk individuals would be unable to attend public 
meetings, making meeting the requirements of the Public Meetings Act difficult to achieve.     
  
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:02 p.m.  
 
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 3, 2020 