MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-06-08 | CLIP_ID: 750 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 750

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 8, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:07 p.m. via electronic conference meeting.  Attending electronic conference meeting  were:  
MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete 
Laybourn, Mike Luna,  Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal,  Dicky Shanor and Jeff White .  Also 
attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk.    
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.  Upon request by Mr.  Shanor, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Cook and Dr. Rinne, agenda item #19 was removed from the Consent Agenda. 
Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Rinne and Mr. Esquibel, 
agenda items #28(b) and #28(b)  were removed from the Consent Agenda.   Mr. Luna moved to 
approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body.   
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 26, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing for a transfer of retail liquor license application filed 
with the City Clerk’s Office for Big D Oil Co., d/b/a Big  D Oil #29, 100 North Greeley Hwy., 
Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by Appaloosa Enterprises LLC d/b/a Sanford’s Grub 
& Pub).  There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor 
Orr closed the hearing and referred the application to the Finance Committee.   
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing for a bar and grill liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Appaloosa Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Sanford’s Grub & Pub, 115 E. 17 th 
St., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having 
been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing and referred the application to the Finance Committee.  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities .  
Reporting for Finance Committee,  Mr. Luna moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr . Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body .  
(#4308) 
 
  
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Sections 1.4.3, 2.1.1, 2.1.2, and 4.2.5 of the 
Unified Development Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to define and clarify the purpose 
of remainder lots.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Case moved to approve on third   
and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  (#4309) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 2.2.6 of the Unified Development 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to modify time limits associated with temporary uses . 
Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4310) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Sections of Article 2 of the Unified 
Development Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to modify posted notice requirements for 
site plans and administrative approvals, clarify procedures for modification of site plans, modify 
authority to initiate text amendments, and modify criteria for variance approval.  Mr. Case moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4311)  
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021.  (Postponed 
from May 26, 2020 ).  Joe Dougherty provided comments, concerns and inquiries relating t o 
proposed budget allocations, use of reserves since September 2018, general fund expenditures, 
responsibility to tax payers, use of Solid Waste Fund and previous salary adjustments for specific 
staff members.  Mayor Orr advised responses to Mr. Dougherty’s inquires would be fourth coming 
and reported some pay increases were in response to inadequacie s involv ing salary and 
marketability. Mayor Orr expressed pride in her administration for bringing most employees up to 
market minimum. Comments were made regarding resolutions that outlined reappropriations that 
were directed towards courthouse project and a reappropriation to balance the budget. Amber Ash, 
DDA Executive Director, advised she was available for any questions and stated she appreciates 
DDA budget consi derations.  Lynn Huylar, Safe Harbor,  provided information and statistics 
related to child abuse and unemployment and explained that by removing funding for the agency, 
this may result in an increase of future cases.  Mr. Cook expressed appreciation to Ms. Huylar for 
her comments and the importance of funding social services programs such as Safe Harbor.  Upon 
inquiry by Mayor Orr, Ms. Huylar advised that CARES Act funding was not designated to non -
profits during the first round of CARES Act allocations. Ms. Huylar reported the agency is actively 
looking into other grant opportunities and funding sources, noting fund raising has been halted due 
to the COVID-19 Pandemic.  Mayor Orr provided additional information relating to current and 
projected CARES Act funding opportunities.  Heidi McNeil, Alcohol Receiving Center (ARC), 
provided comments relating to the importance and success of the program and commented on 
support she has received from the community and prior program participants . Ms. McNeil 
expressed concern for the future of the program and the lives of those affected by alcohol addiction 
and inquired as to what agencies/programs may be able to take up the work  if the center closes . 
Comments were expressed regarding appreciation of the program and see king a solution to the 
  
funding deficit.  Erin LeBlanc, Laramie County Senior Services, advised she has received positive 
reinforcement for the program from the community since the last council meeting and reinforced 
the need to continue  funding for the program.  Ms. LeBlanc expressed deep concern regarding 
what the budget cut would mean for meal service s for senior citizens and advised that due to the 
pandemic, they are serving additional meals.  Mayor Orr advised that the CARES Act is currently 
working toward working with seniors and food needs.  Ms. LeBlanc, upon inquiry, advised they 
have started receiving some CARES Act funds that are very Covid-19 specific.   Comments were 
made regarding uncertainty felt during the pandemic by seniors relating to the health and available 
services.  Mayor Orr advised that due to the uncertainty of future funding availability, she 
anticipates the FY 2021 budget will be revised as necessary moving forward which may result in 
funding becoming available for certain agencies.  Cara Carpenter and Charles Detridge commented 
on a peaceful protest they recently attended against police brutality and thanked Mayor Orr for her 
attendance.  They further inquired as to the Police Chief and City’s position on th e following 
issues:  Defunding of Police Departments, current and proposed budgets, use of force training, use 
of appropriate resources for mental health issues, crime and racial divide .  Chief Brian Kozak, 
Police Department,  advised there is an  annual rep ort on the city  website involving data of 
demographics of crimes and calls for service.  Chief Kozak advised his department is launching a 
new diversion program where people can be diverted to support programs for addiction and mental 
health issues instead of being arrested.  Upon inquiry, information was provided related to non -
profit vs. for profit status of jails, prisons and transitional services. Mayor Orr expressed 
appreciation to the Police Department and acknowledged the departments multiple recognitions.  
Chief Kozak reported the Police Department  follows best practices based on recommendations 
and commented on the following: citizens who are in crisis , extensive training, robust volunteer 
program and a citizens advisory committee that makes sure they are addressing community needs.  
He encouraged the public to attend the citizens academy and get involved with  the department.  
Upon inquiry, Chief Kozak provided information on 2 armored vehicles the department has and 
what they are used for based on policy.   Brandi Bristow and Karen Miller spoke in opposition of 
defunding of ARC program, provided personal history of their  success through the program and 
spoke in support of the pro gram and program funding and requested consideration for continued 
funding of the program.  Mayor Orr explained that the budget may be reviewed quarterly in a 
measured approach to determine what services could be funded or partially funded throughout the 
fiscal year and that some services are being funding through the CARES Act  and clarified the 
hospital is given funding to provide to the social service providers.    Karen Miller, ARC, further 
noted she appreciates the approach as the pandemic has been catastrophic and advised s ervices 
provided through ARC are more cost effective than when they are provided at the hospital .  
Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr.  White.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by increasing the Fire Department’s budget by  
$57,687.00 and by raising the revenue from reserves in the same amount, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  
Mayor Orr advised that pursuant to Roberts Rules of Order, she is requesting all future 
amendments for the budget ordinance be submitted in writing prior to the final budget reading on 
06-16-2020 for the benefit of the public and to allow the City Treasurer time to calculate proposed 
changes.  Mr. Shanor provided information on the amendment explaining  the initial proposed 
budget had a shortage of a little over  $300,000 related to the collective bargaining agreement 
including 3 employees and longevity pay that was not included in the budget, after negotiations 
and including a reduction, the remaining unfunded liability  is what the amendment is for.   Dr. 
  
Rinne confirmed the latest figure provided by the City T reasurer is $57,687.00.  Michael 
O’Donnell, City Attorney, noted that the motion by Dr. Rinne is well taken based on discussion 
that occurred at the 5-26-2020 Special Meeting.  Robin Lockman , City Treasurer, confirmed the 
dollar amounts presented by Dr. Rinne are correct.   Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” all 
members of the governing body.  Mayor Orr upon inquiry, confirmed that budget amendments are 
required to be submitted in writing a few hours prior to the Special Meeting on 6-16-2020 to allow 
for publication for the benefit of the public and to allow the treasurer to perform accurate 
calculations.  Mayor Orr further stated she does not preside over the Committee of the Whole and 
that if amendments are to be submitted in writing prior to that meeting, Dr. Rinne as Council 
President will make that determination.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.   The following is a summary of the proposed budget , including the 
aforementioned amendments : General Fund, $ 50,572,083; Weed and Pest, $ 539,308; Youth 
Alternatives Grants, $ 553,690; Development Impact Fees, $ 175,000; Recreation Programs, 
$1,548,033; Community Development Block Grant, $ 790,555; Law Enforcement Grants, 
$196,278; Transportation Planning, $ 888,242; Transit, $ 2,644,634; Juvenile Justice, $ 93,725; 
Special Friends, $ 90,189; One Percent Sales Tax, $11,033,691; Specific Purpose Optio n Tax,  
$673,535 Youth Activities, $ 18,000; Golf Facilities, $ 400,000; Fleet Maintenance, $ 3,969,148; 
Solid Waste Management  Fund, $26,564,476; Civic Center, $ 1,905,363; Ice & Events Center, 
$691,404; Perpetual Care, $ 5,000; Total City, $ 103,352,354; Water Enterprise, $ 34,310,945; 
Sewer Enterprise, $14,661,650; Total Appropriation, $152,324,949. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 5.12.110, Open Container-Sales and 
Consumption-Exceptions, and Section 5.12.120, Special Use Areas -Special Event Permit of 
Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 4, Business Licenses and 
Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City o f Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Luna moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by sub stitute 
dated 6-1-2020, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. Roybal reviewed the substitute amendments which 
include creating special areas or districts in which possession of open containers and consumption 
of alcoholic beverages are permitted.  Amber Ash, DDA Executive Director, advised the proposal 
for open consumption is something that was recently approved in Casper and that a resolution must 
be adopted specifically for events, noting this requirement will allow for individual evaluation of 
proposed events.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Dr. Rinne commented on 
the process of the resolution affiliated with this ordinance relating to a proposed Summertime on 
Streets event scheduled for June 20th.  It was requested that this item be heard on third and final 
reading at the 6-16-2020 Special Meeting of the Governing Body.  City Clerk Kris Jones explained 
there was discussion of agenda items #12 and #26 being heard on third and final reading at the 6-
16-2020 Special Meeting of the Governing Body.  City Attorney Michael O’Donnell advised this 
item is referred to Finance Committee on 6 -15-2020 and will appear on  the agenda for special 
meeting next Tuesday night.   Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 8.40.063, Food Service 
Establishments-Sidewalk Cafes, of Chapter 8.40, Food and Food Service Establishments, of Title 
8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Luna moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. White explained that this item and the 
  
previous agenda item are companion agenda items and will be heard on third and final reading at 
the 6 -16-2020 Special Meeting of the Governing Body.   Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Granting a Non -Exclusive Franchise to Union 
Telephone Company within the rights -of-way of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Luna 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 2.76.020, Members -Terms-
Vacancies, of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, Administration and 
Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming (Sponsor – Mr. White) – 
referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the official zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LR (Low-Density Residential) to MUR (Mixed-
Use Residential Emphasis) for property generally located northeast of the intersecti on of Kelley 
Drive and Old Faithful Road (Sponsor – Mr. Case) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the official zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI (Light Industrial) to MUB (Mixed-Use 
Business Emphasis) for property generally located northeast of the intersection of west 21st Street 
and Reed Avenue  (Sponsor – Mr. Case) – referred to Public Services Committee.      
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Temporarily suspending Resolution No. 6023 which establishes that all 
revenue from City Contract No. 5902 to be split evenly between the City of Cheyenne Solid Waste 
Enterprise fund, the Board of Public Utilities, and the newly established Belvoir Ranch Recreation 
Special Revenue Fund. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6061) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Temporarily suspending Resolution No. 5635 which establishes 
guidelines for the maximum amount of excess revenue that may be collected for the operation of 
Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fund.  Mr. Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White .  Mr. Shanor 
advised he pulled this item off of the Consent Agenda out of principal due to all of the work that 
went into the resolution initially.  He reported that money was being raised every year in rates to  
subsidize general fund until cap was put on.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor voting “no”.  
(#6062) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Declaring June 2020 as 307 First Month.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6063)      
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the 
Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6064) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2020 Budget of the City of Ch eyenne 
  
according to the provisions of W.S. §16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113 (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing all sale proceeds received from the disposal of the City-Owned 
real property located at 610 West 7 th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be deposited into the “Real 
Property Revolving Fund” (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) – referred to Finance Committee.    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting to the future land use map in PlanCheyenne, the Master Plan 
for the City of Cheyenne and the Comprehensive Plan for portions of Laramie County, amending 
the Land Use Category for property generally located along east Lincolnway generally between 
Henderson Drive and Ridge Road from Urban Residential and Public/Quasi-Public to Mixed-Use 
Residential and from Community Business to Mixed -Use Commercial   (Sponsor – Mr. Case) – 
referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the 
amount of $26,901.43 for the Board of Public Utilities pursuant to W.S. §16-4-502 (Sponsor – Mr. 
Laybourn) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
RESOLUTION – Creating a Special District for the ‘Summertime on the Streets Event’ to 
be held June 20, 2020, in which the possession of open containers is permitted between the hours 
of 11:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal).  City Clerk Kris Jones advised this item was 
originally thought to be approved at this meeting by suspension of rules, however, the item needs 
to be referred to Finance Committee.  Mayor Orr referred the item to thFinance Committee.     
 
[CA] A Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES ACT) Airport Grant 
Agreement between the United States of America Federal Aviation Administration, the City of 
Cheyenne, The County of Laramie and The Cheyenne Regional Airport Board (CARES ACT 
Airport Grant). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7184) 
 
 Contract Modification # 3 to Contract #6918 between the City of Cheyenne and FCI 
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, to remove Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment (FF&E) Budget 
(Specific Purpose Sales Tax).  Ben Hornok, TC Solutions and Project Manager, explained that the 
furniture was originally placed in the FCI Constructors budget and the modification would move 
it to City to control and manage this portion of the project budget .  Mr. Hornok confirmed the 
modification amount of $107,500.00 would be removed from FCI’s portion of the project budget.    
Comments were made supporting FCI’s project management.   Mr. Hornok provided additional 
information relating to management of the project and efforts to keep the project on track for 
completion explaining there are potential delays resulting from the unexpected Covid -19 
Pandemic.  Mr. Hornok reported procurement of the furniture is in process.   Upon inquiry, Mr. 
Hornok advised that he believes this change will provide greater control to ensure the project stays 
on track concerning budget funding.   City Attorney  Michael O’Donnell  reported this project 
management approach has been historically successful.   Joe Dougherty voiced concerns relating 
management of the project funding.  Mr. Luna moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$107,500.00, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Comments were made supporting the modification  and 
budget management of the project’s budget.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”. (#6918) 
  
 
 Contract Modification #3 to Contract #6924 between the City of Cheyenne and TC 
Solutions, LLC, to add purchase and management of furniture, equipment, building 
commissioning, moving and signage.  (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) . Ben Hornok, TC Solutions,  
operating as owner representative for project, advised this modification will allow for the greatest 
city control of the project budget for quality and risks associated with the remainder of project.  He 
advised he has been w orking with staff to make sure  the project is completed as needed for 
functionality.  Mr. Luna moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $453,382.00, seconded by 
Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”.  (#6924) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6927 between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming 
Homeland Security for the Cheyenne Regional Emergency Response Team #7 extending the term 
of the grant through December 31, 2020 .  (DHS Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6927) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6976 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corporation for additional construction services of the Evers Boulevard Reconstruction Project 
(2018-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6976) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6960 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp. for the Christensen Railroad Overpass & Corridor Project for  cost impacts accociated with 
unforseen site conditions which required  design and construction modifications  (6th Penny Sales 
Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-23-20 for One (1) New 2019-2020 Daihatsu Hi-Jet S510P Mini-
Truck for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Botanic Gardens.  (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made of Special Meeting to be held Tuesday, June 16, 2020 at 6:00 
p.m. via electronic conference meeting, for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and Board 
of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2020. 
 
 Announcement was made of Public Hearing to be held Tuesday, June 16, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. 
via electronic conference meeting, for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and  Board of 
Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2020. 
      
 Under other business: 
 
 Mr. Esquibel commended Chief Kozak and the Police Department for meeting with the  
community last week and inquired as to the status of the Friday’s on the Plaza event.  Mayor Orr 
advised it is anticipated that a further lift of restrictions of outdoor events by the Governor may be 
announced on June 15th, therefore allowing smaller scaled events including events on the plaza.   
  
 
 Mayor Orr reported that  summer seasonal and part time hiring will occur  for opening 
Community Recreation & Events facilities for services such as aquatics and ballfields. 
 
 Mayor Orr expressed appreciation to  Chief Kozak and the Police Department  for their 
integrity and training involving national recent events. 
 
 There being no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:01 p.m.  
 
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 17, 2020 