MEETING: Special Meeting of the Governing Body - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-06-16 | CLIP_ID: 752 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 752

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 16, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne convened in a special meeting on this date 
beginning at 6:00 p.m. via WebEx Electronic Conference Meeting .  Attending electronic 
conference meeting were:  MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Mr. Case, Mr. 
Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor and Mr. White. 
Also attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  
 
[Clerk’s note:  Dr. Rinne was able to hear the proceedings but was unable to communicate due to 
audio difficulty. Dr. Rinne cast affirmative votes for all agenda items and amendments presented 
through alternative technology methods] 
  
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 5.12.110, Open Container-Sales and 
Consumption-Exceptions, and Section 5.12.120, Special Use Areas -Special Event Permit of 
Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 4, Business Licenses and 
Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Luna moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White.  M otion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4312)        
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 8.40.063, Food Service 
Establishments-Sidewalk Cafes, of Chapter 8.40, Food and Food Service Establishments, of Title 
8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Luna moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4313)  
     
 RESOLUTION – Creating a Special District for the ‘Summertime on the Streets Event’ to 
be held June 20, 2020, in which the possession of open containers is permitted between the hours 
of 11:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.  Alessandra McCoy Fakelman, Deputy City Attorney , provided 
information on the resolution and affiliated ordinance stating  the items a llow special areas or 
districts in which the possession of open containers is permitted and certain liquor licensees can 
participate. The periods of time and boundaries are establ ished by resolution adopted by the 
governing body. This particular resolution is for a special event to occur on Saturday, June 20 th 
from 11:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.  Ms. McCoy-Fakelman advised that upon feedback from the Police 
Chief, a proposed amendment contains specificity for designated certain types of cups, wristbands 
and doesn’t allow for any outside liquor.   Amber Ash, D owntown Development Authority  
Executive Director, provided event details and advised the event will be in compliance with the 
governor’s health orders .  She further confirmed that compliance will be followed and 
implemented in efforts to limit COVID-19 exposure.  Mr. Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
Case.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated June 16, 2020, seconded by Mr. White.  
Mr. Roybal e xplained the substitute provides additional safeguards including easy to identify 
specific wristband and cup requirements and will not allow for outside liquor.  Upon inquiry, Ms. 
Ash provided details involving type, use and reuse of cups and wristbands .  Motion to a mend 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion  as amended carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6065) 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a public hearing for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and 
Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2021. There being no comments or input and purpose of 
the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing.        
 
   ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021.  Mr. White 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to amend 
by adding footnotes #1-13 and adding language that the City Treasurer has the authority as part of 
this amendment to make any technical amendments to these footnotes and the budget ordinance to 
reflect the intent of these footnotes , seconded by Mr. Roybal .  Mayor Orr clarified the  footnotes 
are from the June 10, 2020 Committee of the Whole meeting.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Mr. White moved to amend Footnote #2 to include: 
This footnote also excludes seasonal workers and does not prohibit an employee form being 
promoted into a pre -existing higher position with a pre -existing higher salary, seconded by Mr. 
Luna.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Upon inquiry, 
Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, confirmed there were no additional amendments needed as a 
result of recent discussions with the Fire Union relating to the Fire Department ’s budget.  Main 
motion as twice amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#4314) 
 
 Mr. Luna expressed appreciation to City Treasurer Robin Lockman, City Council and City 
staff members for their dedicated work on the budget.  Mayor Orr echoed Mr. Luna’s comments 
and advised that due to the unprecedented times, the budget may need to be reviewed through out 
the fiscal year.                
 
 
      Submitted by, 
 
 
       Kristina F. Jones 
       City Clerk 
 
 This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 24, 2020 