MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-06-22 | CLIP_ID: 754 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 754

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 22, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:07 p.m. via electronic conference meeting.  Attending electronic conference meeting  were:  
MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete 
Laybourn, Mike Luna,  Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal,  Dicky Shanor and Jeff White .  Also 
attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk.    
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Case and Mr. Shanor, agenda item #22 (a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon 
request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook and Mr. Roybal, agenda item 
#22 (b) was removed from the Consent  Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining items, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 8 , 2020 .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meetings of the Governing Body on May 28, June 11, June 15, and 
June 16,2020.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Granting a Non-Exclusive Franchise to Union Telephone 
Company within the rights -of-way of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.   Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. Luna moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr.  White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4315) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 2.76.020, Members -Terms-
Vacancies, of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, Administration and 
Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming . Amber Ash, Exec utive 
Director of the Downtown Development Authority, advised she was available for questions.  Upon 
inquiry, Ms. Ash explained that the DDA B oard received applications from three qualified 
members, and with only two available seats open on the Board, they are requesting to expand the 
number of members from 9 to 10.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Case moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Comment was made on the need to expand  
the membership  based on submitted qualified  applications and the history of  board member 
uncompleted terms.  Ms. Ash reported that per State Statute, the board can have a total of 11 
members.   Mayor Orr cautioned having an even numbered membership.  Ms. Ash noted that items 
  
considered for approval would require 6 votes to pass.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.   
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the official zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LR (Low-Density Residential) to MUR (Mixed-
Use Residential Emphasis) for property generally located northeast of the intersection of Kelley 
Drive and Old Faithful Road.   Tom Jacobson, #1 Properties, owner representative, requested 
consideration fo r approval .  Kari Happold, Rustic Wyoming Reality, advised they will be 
purchasing the office space for use by the real estate company and are requesting  approval which 
will allow them to expand  the business.  Mark  Christensen, Planning and Developmen t 
Department, advised he was available to answer questions.  Mr. Case moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
     
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the official zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI (Light Industrial) to MUB (Mixed -Use 
Business Emphasis) for property generally located northeast of the intersection of west 21st Street 
and Reed Avenue.    It was noted that Matt Ashby, representative for the property owner, was 
available for any questions.  Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . 
White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.      
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the official zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MUB Mixed -Use 
Business Emphasis for a portion of the SE1/4 of Section 33, T.14N., R66W, 6 th P.M., Cheyenne, 
Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Sparks Road, west of Ridge Road)  (Sponsor – Mr. 
Case) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 5.04, Business Licenses, Generally, 
and Chapter 5.08, Business License fees, and creating a new Chapter 5.77, Nicotine Product Sales, 
of Title 5, Bus iness Licenses and Regulations; amending Chapter 8.64, Smoking in Public 
Places,of Title 8, Health and Safety; and amending Chapter 9.16, Offenses by or Against Minors, 
of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wy oming. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 10.52, Stopping, Standing and 
Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) – referred to Public Services Committee.  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2020 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §16-4-112 & 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6066) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing all sale proceeds received from the disposal of the City-Owned 
real property located at 610 West 7 th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to be deposited into the “Real 
Property Revolving Fund”.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6067)    
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting to the future land use map in PlanCheyenne, the Master Plan 
for the City of Cheyenne and the Comprehensive Plan for portions of Laramie County, amending 
the Land Use Category for property generally located along east Lincolnway generally between 
Henderson Drive and Ridge Road from Urban Residential and Public/Quasi-Public to Mixed-Use 
Residential and from Community Business to Mixed -Use Commercial .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6068) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the 
amount of $26,901.43 for the Board of Public Utilities pursuant to W.S. §16-4-502.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6069) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Creating a Special District for ‘Cheyenne Days – Legendary Nights 
Events’, July 17, 2020 to July 26, 2020, in which the possession of open containers is permitted 
within the Downtown District Boundaries.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives Foster 
Grandparent Program and the Wyoming Department of Health, Aging Division in the amount of 
$28,272.00 for services provided to the senior volunteers. (State of Wyoming Grant) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Industrial and Economic Development Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS). (General 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] A Section 5307 COVID -19 Emergency Rel ief for Operations Grant Agreement between 
the Federal Transit Administration and the City of Cheyenne to fund Transit operations and 
purchase of PPE related to COVID -19.  (5307 CARES Act Grant) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] A Coronavirus Aid Reli ef, and Economic Security (CARES) Act Grant Agreement 
between the Federal Transit Administration and the City of Cheyenne to fund Transit operations.  
(5307 CARES Act Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6960 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp. for the Christensen Railroad Overpass & Corridor Project for  cost impacts accociated with 
unforseen site conditions which required  design and construction modifications  (6th Penny Sales 
Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $491,363.64). (#6960) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 7155 Sponsorship Agreement between the City of 
Cheyenne and Spradley Barr Toyota. (revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 3 to Contract # 6885 between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the 2018 Mountain Road and 20 th Street Pavement Rehabilitation project to 
  
provide additional funds for unforeseen preparatory work to the underlying road surface.  (2015 -
2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-23-20 for One (1) New 2019-2020 Daihatsu Hi-Jet S510P Mini-
Truck for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Botanic Gardens (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Woody’s Mini Truck, Poplar Grove, IL, in an 
amount not to exceed $23,584.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -26-20 for furnishing one (1) new 2020 -2021 Motorized 
Articulated Trash Compactor with straight blade and heavy duty trash guarding for the City of 
Cheyenne Landfill.  (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -17-20 for furnishing one Panasonic PT -RZ21K Proj ector with 
lens and accessories for the City of Cheyenne Civic Center.  (Recreation Program Fund) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # S-14-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the Prairie Avenue & Frontier Mall Drive Intersection Project.  (2015-2018 1% 
Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Transfer of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Big D Oil 
Co., d/b/a Big D Oil #29, 100 North Greeley Hwy., Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held 
by Appaloosa Enterprises LLC d/b/a Sanford’s Grub & Pub) .  Mr. Luna moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Comment was ma de related to retail liquor licenses  being utilized by 
convenience stores and how it is the least effective use of that type of license. As there are currently 
no available retail liquor licenses, they are an asset to the city and should be utilized in the best 
way possible to promote economic development.  Motion carried.   Voting “yes” – Mr. Esquibel, 
Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna, Mayor Orr , Mr. Shanor and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. 
Cook, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal. 
 
 Bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Appaloosa 
Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Sanford’s Grub & Pub, 115 E. 17th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Clyde Mead, 
Big D Oil, speaking on the previous agenda item (transfer of retail liquor license applicatio n) 
provided information relating to staff training relating to meeting state and local liquor licensing 
regulations and reported customers have requested the service at the south Big D Oil location.  Mr. 
Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body.          
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Reappointments of Jordan Evans, Terry Roker, Jennifer Lundberg and Barbara Fecht to 
the Public Transit Advisory Board; Lieutenant Eric Kent, Lieutenant David Janes, Kathy Emmons, 
Kimberly Skoutary -Johnson and Carla Thurin to the Laramie County Juvenile Ser vice Joint 
  
Powers Board; Dr. Jasper James Chen to the Cheyenne/Laramie County Economic Development 
Joint Powers Board; Barry Sims, Tyler McLachlan and Tony O’Brien to the Tourism Promotion 
Joint Powers Board.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Royb al.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not 
vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
Appointments of Kristina Richardson and Molly Palmer to the Mayor’s Council for People 
with Disabilities.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” - all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote 
(mayoral appointments). 
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Mr. White referenced a recent letter to the editor in the Wyoming Tribune Eagle that was 
complementary of  work performed by the City Forestry crews and arborists that were sent to 
Laramie to help with tree issues after a damaging snow storm.  Mr. White expressed appreciation 
to the DDA, T hankful Thursdays and Lyn n Buys Houses for  the recent ‘ Summertime on the 
Streets’ event, noting he is unaware of any open container issues associated with the event and that 
downtown businesses were appreciative for additional business.  Mayor Orr echoed Mr. White’s 
comments regarding appreciation for the City’s Forestry crew.  
 
 Mr. Esquibel advised he had been contacted by citizens who expressed concern relating to 
a recent Police and Community Together meeting who feel forums of this nature should not be 
held at Police Headquarter s and instead in a neutral location .  Mr. Esquibel advised a forum has 
been scheduled at the Laramie County Library on July 18th.  Up inquiry, Mr. Esquibel advised no 
law enforcement members will be present, elected officials will attend by invitation only, it will 
be open to the public and  all panelists have been predetermined.  Mayor Orr reported the local 
Chapter of NAACP will meet on Saturday, June 27th from 10:00 a.m. to Noon at Element Church 
to allow for marginalized citizens voices to be heard.  
 
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:43 p.m.  
 
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 2, 2020 