MEETING: Special Meeting of the Governing Body - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-06-29 | CLIP_ID: 756 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 756

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 29, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met a special meeting on this date beginning 
at 6:27 p.m. via electronic conference meeting.  Attending electronic conference meeting  were:  
MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; C OUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Pete Laybourn, 
Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Absent -Ken Esquibel.  
Also attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk.    
 
RESOLUTION – Providing for the City of Cheyenne to apply for “CARES ACT” and 
other federally available funds to address the COVID -19 Pandemic.  (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) Mr. 
Shanor abstained from voting due to  personal employment affiliation with the Wyoming State 
Loan and Investment Board.  Mr. Roybal moved to suspend the rules pursuant to State Statute §15-
1-115 to consider the resolution for final adoption, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.   Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Shanor  who didn’t 
vote.  Mr. Case moved to amend by adding the following language: “All applications to any entity 
shall be aligned to the CARES Act spending priorities passed as part of the City’s FY2021 budget 
ordinance”, seconded by Mr. Luna. Michael O’Donnell, City Attorney, expressed concern and 
urged caution in approving the proposed amendment relating to annual budget requirements and 
proposed grant funding regulations.  Mr. Case with concurrence from Mr. Luna, withdrew the 
proposed amendment.  Mr. White moved to amend by adding the following language in the Now 
Therefore Be It Resolved clause following the wor d pandemic “in an amount not to exceed five 
million dollars”, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Shanor who didn’t vote. Main motion as 
amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mr. Shanor who didn’t vote. (#6070) 
  
RESOLUTION – Encouraging summer events at the Cheyenne Depot Plaza.   (Sponsors – 
Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Luna, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Shanor & Mr. White) – 
referred to Public Services Committee. 
       
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 13, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. via  
electronic conference meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required 
by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for Lots 1 and 2 and a Portion of a 20 Foo t Vacated Alley 
being adjacent to and West of said Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Prairie Hills Addition, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of Yellowstone Road and Western Hills Blvd).  
  
 Mayor Orr stated the purpose of the special mee ting had been met, and there  being no 
further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was officially adjourned at  6:37 
p.m.  
 
 
 
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 10, 2020 
 