MEETING: City Council Meeting -Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-07-13 | CLIP_ID: 757 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 757

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 13, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:07 p.m. via electronic conference meeting.  Attending electronic conference meeting  were:  
MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete 
Laybourn, Mike Luna,  Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal,  Dicky Shanor and Jeff White .  Also 
attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk.    
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.   Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 22, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on  June 29,2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for Lots 1 and 2 and a Portion of  a 20 
Foot Vacated Alley being adjacent to and west of said Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Prairie Hills Addition, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of Yellowstone Road and 
Western Hills Blvd).  There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been 
met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 2.76.020, Members -Terms-
Vacancies, of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, Administration and 
Personnel, of the Municipal  Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Amber Ash, Downtown 
Development Authority Executive Director, advised she was available for any questions.  Upon 
inquiry, Ms. Ash and Mayor Orr provided information on the application process for 
boards/commissions explaining there are often more applications received than positions 
available.  Applications are kept until there is a vacancy and the applicant is contacted to see if 
they are still interested.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Case moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body.  (#4316) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the official zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LR (Low-Density Residential) to MUR (Mixed-
  
Use Residential Emphasis) for property generally located northeast of the intersection of Kelley 
Drive and Old Faithful Road.  Kari Happold, Rustic Wyoming Reality, advised she was available 
for any questions  and explained Rustic Wyoming Reality  is looking to expand.  Mr. Luna 
welcomed Ms. Happold to Ward III.  Tom Jacobson, #1 Properties, owner representative, voiced 
support for the ordinance.  Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4317) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the official zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI (Light Industrial) to MUB (Mixed -Use 
Business Emphasis) for property generally located northeast of the intersection of west 21st Street 
and Reed Avenue.  Matt Ashby, agent representing owner, advised he was available for any 
questions.   Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4318) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the official zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MUB Mixed -Use 
Business Emphasis for a portion of the SE1/4 of Section 33, T.14N., R66W, 6 th P.M., Cheyenne, 
Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Sparks Road, west of Ridge Road) . Jim Grenfell, 
Executive Director of Wyoming Housing Network, provided information on the  land and  
explained the anticipated use includes senior living units with garages and adequate parking.  Mr. 
Grenfell advised he has had discussions with Environmental Health regarding the potential to place 
a clinic on the property.  He further advised it is anticipated that the remaining 6 acres will be used 
for future multi-family low income housing units.  Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 5.04, Business Licenses, Generally, 
and Chapter 5.08, Business License fees, and creating a new Chapter 5.77, Nicotine Product Sales, 
of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations; amending Chapter 8.64, Smoking in Public Places, 
of Title 8, Health and Safety; and amending Chapter 9.16, Offenses by or Against Minors, of Title 
9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. Brittany 
Wardle expressed appreciation to the governing body for consideration of the ordinance and 
advised that the proposed licensing allows restrictive measures that can be utilized  to help 
eliminate underage nicotine sales.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. White advised the ordinance reflects State Statute 
modifications raising the age from 18 to 21 for purchasing tobacco/nicotine products.  Mr. White 
advised the Wyoming State Legislature did the same and noted that he, Ms. Wardle, Joe Chenchar, 
Assistant City Attorney , and a representative of the American Cancer Society reviewed the 
proposed ordinance changes.  Upon inquiry, Mr. White advised it is his understanding there were 
no comments received from small business owners or the Police Departme nt regarding the 
proposed changes.  Joe Chenchar, Assistant City Attorney, upon inquiry, advised he will seek 
verification of businesses being notified regarding the proposed changes.  Request for clarification 
of the proposed changes vs. existing law was made and noted it appears  there is a new license 
requirement and an increased fee, banning of vending machines and new eligibility requirements 
for licensees.  Mr. Chenchar advised the existing annual tobacco license fee is $65.00, noting the 
proposed increased fee was determined to assist with compliance check expenses.  Upon inquiry, 
  
Mr. Chenchar provided information relating to the appeal process involving annual violation s, 
noting it is the decision of the governing body to pursue suspension/revocation of a license.  Mr. 
Chenchar confirmed convictions would be through the Municipal Court.  Support was expressed 
for the ordinance and comment was made related to timing of raising license fees considering the 
current COVID-19 hardships on small businesses .  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Esquibel, 
Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Luna, Mayor 
Orr, Mr. Roybal, and Mr. Shanor. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 10.52, Stopping, Standing and 
Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming. Mr. Case moved to withdraw the ordinance.  Dr. Rinne raised a point of 
order that the item could not be withdrawn stating that a fter an agenda item has been introduced, 
it belongs to the  governing body and can’t be withdrawn.  Mayor Orr asked if there were any 
objections to the motion to withdraw, to which Mr. Laybourn and Dr. Rinne expressed objection.    
Michael O’Donnell, City Attorney, reported that after a quick review Roberts Rules of Order and 
concurrence from Alessandra McCoy-Fakelman, Deputy City Attorney, it would be appropriate to 
vote the motion to withdraw down.  Motion to withdraw failed.    Voting “no” – all members of 
the governing body.  [Clerk’s note: the item died due to the lack of a motion to approve]      
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northwest of the intersection of Western Hills Boulevard and Yellowstone Road – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. CASE) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MU (Mixed-Use) to MUB (Mixed-Use 
Business Emphasis) for property generally located northwest of the intersection of Western Hills 
Boulevard and Yellowstone Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. 
CASE) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 2.29, Community Service Officers, 
of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming - – referred to Public Services Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. CASE) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
non-uniformed employees of the City for Cheyenne for Fiscal Year 2020 -2021 – referred to 
Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. WHITE) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2020-2021 – referred to Finance 
Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. WHITE) 
  
RESOLUTION – Creating a Special District for ‘Cheyenne Days – Legendary Nights 
Events’, July 17, 2020 to July 26, 2020, in which the possession of open containers is permitted 
within the Downtown District Boundaries.   Amber Ash, Executive Director of  the Downtown 
Development Authority , explained ther e were initially several events planned but due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, sponsors of the events made the decision to cancel them.  Ms. Ash reported 
  
the DDA evaluated the costs associated with the open container event and it was determined those 
costs were n’t justified without major events taking place.  Ms. Ash further advised  the Paint 
Slingers asked to remove their event from the event list along with concerts that were planned on 
that Wednesday and Friday.  Ms. Ash requested the item be withdrawn if possible or otherwise 
disposed of noting however, that a negative vote is not desired as future events could be considered.  
Comments included:  concurrence of the event  no longer being feasible, consumption area 
including entire DDA districts, special district resolution being a “pilot program”, support of the 
resolution in hopes it may help businesses in the area , management a nd enforcement for these 
types of activities and suggestions for more defined boundaries .  Ms. Ash advised she hasn’t 
specifically consulted with other communities about their open container events and that the DDA 
is looking to re -evaluate the district in  the future to use the Main Street District to define 
consumption boundaries as it is smaller and more contained.  Mr. Luna moved to adopt, seconded 
by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Luna  moved to amend by substitute  dated July 8, 2020  seconded by Mr.  
Roybal.  Mr. White explained the amendment includes removing the Paint Slingers event from the 
event listing and increasing the event cup size from 12 ounces to 16 ounces.  Chief Brian Kozak, 
Police Department, explained it was his understanding that the intent of the open container 
approval was for a specific downtown area that could be effectively monitored, and each eligible 
establishment would be provided with a certain number of event wristbands and cups.  Ms. Ash 
advised the events that are  currently scheduled for Cheyenne Day are the Melodrama, Dueling 
Pianos and a potential block party and further advised the DDA will be promoting merchant sales 
and sidewalk sales.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
with exception of  Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  Chief Kozak clarified that there would be no 
additional police officer expense for Cheyenne Day as it is covered under their annual budget and 
noted open consumption without specific planned events may be less than ideal. Additional 
comments were made supporting the intent of the resolution, concerns with issues raised regarding 
costs and enforcement, lack of participation and current public  health environment.  Motion as 
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. 
Laybourn, Mayor Orr, and Dr. Rinne  voting “no”.  [Clerk’s note: Dr. Rinne confirmed he was a 
“no” vote which wasn’t acknowledged du e to a delayed audio response involving electronic 
meeting lag time]  (#6071)    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Encouraging Summer Events at the Cheyenne Depot Plaza.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6072)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the Municipal Complex Pedestrian Routing Plan – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. CASE) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Hawk’s 
Point Subdivision, a plat of a portion of the SE ¼, Section 33, T.14N, R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, 
Laramie County,  Wyoming (located between Lincolnway and Nationway, west of Ridge Road)  
– referred to Public Services Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. CASE) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Stanfield Addition, 4 th Filing, a replat of Lots 1 -4, Block 652, Stanfield Addition, Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Thomes Avenue 
  
and W. 6th Street – referred to Public Services Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. CASE) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Stanfield Addition, 5 th Filing, a replat of Lots 4 -6, Block 693, Stanfield Addition and Lots 1 -3, 
Block 694, Stanfield Addition, Second Filing, and all of those remaining portions of Lots 4 and 5, 
Stanfield Addition, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast 
corner of the intersection of Stanfield Avenue and W. 5 th Street) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. CASE) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Declaring as surplus a City -owned property generally located at the 
northeast corner of Morrie Avenue and East Lincolnway, together with improvements thereon, 
and authorizing the City to proceed with the process to dispose  of the property pursuant to Wyo. 
Stat. §15-1-112(A) – referred to Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. LUNA) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30,  2021 – referred to 
Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. LUNA) 
 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Whitney Ranch, 3rd Filing, a plat of a portion of the SE¼, Section 33, 
T14N, R66W, 6th PM, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Dell Range Blvd., 
along Van Buren Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives Foster 
Grandparent Program and the Wyoming Department of Health, Aging Division in the amount of 
$28,272.00 for services provided to the senior volunteers. (State of Wyoming Grant).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#7191) 
 
[CA] Industrial and Economic Development Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS). (General 
Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (amount not to exceed $39,860.00). (#7192) 
 
[CA] A Section 5307 COVID -19 Emergency Relief for Operations Grant Agreement between 
the Federal Transit Administration and the City of Cheyenne to fund Transit operations and 
purchase of PPE related to COVID-19.  (5307 CARES Act Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (revenue to the City in the amount of $744,674.00). (#7193) 
 
[CA] A Coronavirus Aid Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act Grant Agreement 
between the Federal Transit Administration and the City of Cheyenne to fund Transit operations.  
(5307 CARES Act Grant) .  Motion (per Consent Age nda) carried (revenue to the City in the 
amount of $3,346,241.00). (#7194) 
 
[CA] Contract between the Wyoming Department of Family Services and the City of Cheyenne, 
Office of Youth Alternatives, for kinship advocacy services for displaced , at-risk youth 
(Department of Family Services Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
 [CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 7155 Sponsorship Agreement between the City of 
Cheyenne and Spradley Barr Toyota. (revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(revenue to City in the amount of $35,000.00). (#7155) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 3 to Contract # 6885 between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the 2018 Mountain Road and 20 th Street Pavement Rehabilitation project to 
provide additional funds for unforeseen preparatory work to the underlying road surface  (201 5-
2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$65,000.00). (#6885) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -26-20 for furnishing one (1) new 2020 -2021 Motorized 
Articulated Trash Compactor with straight blade and heavy  duty trash guarding for the City of 
Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from 
Wyoming Machinery Co., Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $483,461.64). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -17-20 for furnishing one Panasonic PT -RZ21K Projector with 
lens and accessories for the City of Cheyenne Civic Center.  (Recreation Program Fund).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Brown Note Productions, Thornton, CO, in an 
amount not to exceed $51,142.86). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # S-14-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the Prairie Avenue & Frontier Mall Drive Inter section Project.  (2015-2018 1% 
Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Simon Contractors, 
Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $1,339,846.50). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-13-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group 
Inc. d/b/a Knife River for the Allison Road & Cribbon Avenue Median Improvements Project 
(2015-2018 1% Sales Tax and WYDOT Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Request to expand retail liquor license package store dimensions for Avanti, Inc. d/b/a Dell 
Range Liquor, 3806 Dell Range Blvd. – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Appointments of Anthony Ortiz, Katherine Brady and Sara Weber to the Downtown 
Development Authority Board and Jason Powell to the Contractor Licensing Board.   Mr. White 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointments).     
  
 Under other business: 
 
 Margaret Thompson submitted a petition with signatures of residents living within in her 
building opposing the Saturday Cruise Nights relating to excessive noise during the events. Ms. 
Thompson shared her experiences with excessive noise and advised she has a noise meter that she 
has used to record excessively high readings.  She further commented on and provided information 
  
on noise limits as sited in current city code and requested consideration for an alternative location 
for the event.  Mayor Orr expressed appreciation t o Ms. Thompson for bringing forward a 
recommendation for an alternate location.  Chief Kozak advised the Police Department does have 
a sound meter and reported enforcement in this case is difficult due to the nature of this particular 
event as there are multiple vehicles involved and there isn’t a particular event organizer or entity 
sponsoring the event.  Chief Kozak further reported violations of this particular city code section 
are difficult to enforc e.  Mr. Laybourn expressed concerns relating to Ms. Thompson ’s and 
accompanying petitioner’s complaint and supported efforts to reach a resolution.     
 
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:16 p.m.  
 
 
Submitted by, 
 
             
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 22, 2020 