MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-07-27 | CLIP_ID: 760 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 760

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 27, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:07 p.m. via electronic conference meeting.  Attending electronic conference meeting  were:  
MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete 
Laybourn, Mike Luna,  Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal,  Dicky Shanor and Jeff White .  Also 
attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk.    
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.   Upon request by Mr.  White, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Cook and Mr. Luna, agenda item #23 (a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook and Mr. Case, agenda 
item #16 was removed from the Consent Agenda .  Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining items, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 13, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the official zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MUB Mixed -Use 
Business Emphasis for a portion of the SE1/4 of Section 33, T.14N., R66W, 6 th P.M., Cheyenne, 
Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Sparks Road, west of Ridge Road) . Jim Grenfell, 
Executive Director of Wyoming Housing Network, advised he was available for any questions .  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
(#4319) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northwest of the intersection of Western Hills Boulevard and Yellowstone Road .  During 
public comment, it was noted that inquiries by the public not germane to specific agenda items 
could addressed under other business.  Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MU (Mixed-Use) to MUB (Mixed-Use 
Business Emphasis) for property generally located northwest of the intersection of Western Hills 
Boulevard and Yellowstone Road .  Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, second ed by 
Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
  
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 2.29, Community Service Officers, 
of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Mr. Case 
moved to amend by substitute dated July 21, 2020, seconded by Mr.  Luna.  Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main m otion as amended carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
non-uniformed employees of the City for Cheyenne for Fiscal Year 2020 -2021.  Reporting for 
Finance Commit tee, Mr. Luna moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  White. 
Clarification was requested on vacation benefits regarding buyback program and amount allowed 
for annual carry over for both uniformed and nonuniformed employees.  Upon inquiry, Darrin 
Hass, Human Resources Director, clarified that nonuniformed employees can’t carry over anymore 
vacation hours annually than what is currently in the employee handbook  and provided t o 
uniformed employees and noted the only change for nonuniformed employees was the removal of 
longevity pay.  Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, explained  the reason the uniformed 
employees can carry over additional vacation hours is because they are the  only department that 
could sell time back  and that due to budget cuts , they were not allowed to sell time back.  He 
further noted that due to the inability to sell back hours, he wanted to allow them to keep more 
time on the books.  Mayor Orr and Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, confirmed nonuniformed 
employees do not get pay out for vacation leave  and have never been eligible for a buyback 
program.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2020 -2021.  Mr. Luna moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the Municipal Complex Pedestrian Routing Plan.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6073) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Hawk’s 
Point Subdivision, a plat of a portion of the SE ¼, Section 33, T.14N, R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, 
Laramie County,  Wyoming (located between Lincolnway and Nationway, west of Ridge Road) .  
Mr. Case moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Mr. Case moved to postpone to August 10, 
2020, seconded by Mr. White.   Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Stanfield Addition, 4 th Filing, a replat of Lots 1 -4, Block 652, Stanfield Addition, Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Thomes Avenue 
and W. 6 th Street.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of th e 
governing body. (#6074) 
 
 
 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Stanfield Addition, 5 th Filing, a replat of Lots 4 -6, Block 693, Stanfield Addition and Lots 1 -3, 
Block 694, Stanfield Addition, Second Filing, and all of those remaining portions of Lots 4 and 5, 
Stanfield Addition, Second Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast 
corner of the intersection of Stanfield Avenue and W. 5 th Street).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6075) 
  
RESOLUTION – Declaring as surplus a City -owned property generally located at the 
northeast corner of Morrie Avenue and East Lincolnway, together with improvements thereon, 
and authorizing the City to proceed with the process to dispose of the property pursuant to Wyo.  
Stat. §15-1-112(A).  Mr. Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Upon inquiry, Charles 
Bloom, Planning & Development Director, reported he has had extensive discussion s with 
Community Recreation & Events  regarding what it would take for the parking lot to be brought 
into be part of the park .  He further advised it would require various updates including ADA 
improvements and noted Community Recreation & Events is not interested in retaining the 
property.  Mr. Bloom advised upon inquiry , there hasn’t been a market analysis done , however, 
based on the assessor’s analysis the property has an estimated value of $9.40/sq. ft. and that bidders 
would be required to provide an estimated value on the property based on an appraisal.  Mayor Orr 
reported upon inquiry that funding from the proposed sale of the property would go into Land 
Trust Fund established by the governing body.  Comments were made supporting the City 
obtaining an appraisal for the property.  Mr. Bloom confirmed that the purchase agreement would 
ultimately be approved by  the governing body and that could include that the City will get an 
appraisal.  Mayor  Orr advised the cost of the appraisal could be recouped from the Land Trust 
Fund.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6076) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021 .  Amber Ash, 
Downtown Development Authority Executive Director (DDA), advised the DDA Board has 
approved the budget.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Ash provided budget information including grant funding 
amounts and remaining reserves with a reserve balance of approximately $750,000.00, noting they 
are still finalizing final expenses from last year.   She advised the budget document sent to the 
governing body shows a proposed budget for the year and doesn’t include reserve accounts and 
what the DDA is drawing down for the year.  Comment was made that the budget document should 
include details of the reserves account.  Ms. Ash explained upon inquiry the DDA is looking at 
leveraging the reserve account for investments for developing projects. She further explained they 
are looking at the potential to purchase a property to flip or develop properties for lease and 
leveraging other funding sources for both of the possibilities.  Comments were made that due to 
funding challenges involving the COVID -19 Pandemic, the DDA is looki ng to find solutions to 
sustain some activities on their own.  Additional comments were made relating to City Code 
chapter 2.76, Duties of the Board, noting the proposed approach is very different than what is in 
City Code and noted the DDA Board shall pla n and propose plans of development.  Support was 
voiced for continuing the Façade Improvement Program as it had been a success.  Comments were 
made on the functionality of the DDA.  Concern was expressed related to the potential future DDA 
projects and the status of the Main Street program. Ms. Ash, upon inquiry provided an explanation 
of the proposed budget columns which includes CARES Act funding and reported that one of the 
biggest changes in the budget is for the downtown planters.  She explained that annual 
  
plants/shrubs were added so that only supplemental additions would necessary  each year.  She 
further explained the DDA worked with CFD to remove some of the planters and they will be 
looking at possibly updating planters with reservoirs in the long term. Ms. Ash also noted the DDA 
is looking to increase their private partnering ef forts for downtown events in the future to assist 
with funding needs.  Mr. Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6077) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an applicat ion by the City of Cheyenne 
for federal funding through the Transportation Alternatives Program administered by the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of constructing a multi-use path underpass 
for pedestrians and bicycles on College Drive connecting the Laramie County Community College 
Campus and the Sweetgrass Development (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance 
Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. LUNA) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for the BJA FY20 
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program – referred to Finance 
Committee.  (SPONSOR – MR. LAYBOURN) 
 
 Preliminary Plat for Whitney Ranch, 3rd Filing, a plat of a portion of the SE¼, Section 33, 
T14N, R66W, 6th PM, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Dell Range Blvd., 
along Van Buren Avenue) . Tristan Cordier, AVI PC, agent for owner,  advised he is looking 
forward to moving forward on the project  and was available for questions.  Upon inquiry, Mr. 
Cordier reported the Whitney Ranch development will have an HOA and  that will take care of 
management for areas including open spaces, corridors and storm facilities.  Mr. Cordier noted it 
would include the stretch of land along Van Buren related to maintenance at the owner’s request.  
Mr. Case moved to acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve with 
staff conditions 1-4, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
[CA] Contract between the Wyoming Department of Family Services and the City of Cheyenne, 
Office of Youth Alternatives, for kinship advocacy services for displaced , at-risk youth 
(Department of Family Services Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not 
to exceed $30,000.00 (revenue to City)). (#7199) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding by and between Laramie County, the City of Cheyenne, 
the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities, the Cheyenne/Laramie County Board of Health and the 
Cheyenne Regional Airport Board regarding management of the ESRI Enterprise Agreement – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-13-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group 
Inc. d/b/a Knife River for the Allison Road & Cribbon Avenue Median Improvements Project 
(2015-2018 1% Sales Tax and WYDOT Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted 
bid from JTL Group Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $404,790.45). 
(#7200) 
 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -15-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Inman 
Roofing, Inc., for the Aquatics Center Roof Replacement project (General Fund) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -15-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Front 
Range Roofing Systems, LLC, for the Fleet Maintenance Facility and Parks Maintenance Facility 
Roof Replacements project (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Request to expand retail liquor license package store dimensions for Avanti, Inc. d/b/a Dell 
Range Liquor, 3806 Dell Range Blvd .  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Esquibel.  
Mr. Luna moved to postpone to August 10, 2020, seconded by Mr. White.  Kris Jones, City Clerk, 
advised it was brought to her attention following the July 20, 2020  Finance Committee, that the 
request must receive conditional use approval from the Board of Adjustment for the proposed 
expansion.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Appointment of Keith Zabka to the Board of Public Utilities.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Motion carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointments).     
  
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 10, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. via 
electronic conference meeting, for a social club liquor license application filed with the City 
Clerk’s Office for Alternative Arts Project Inc. d/b/a The Lincoln Theater, 1615 Central Ave., 
Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
 Under other business: 
  
 Mr. White expressed appreciation to the Mayor, Council Members and City staff that 
attended the Plaza Splash Pad ribbon cutting ceremony and thanked his colleagues for having the 
vision to fulfill the commitment and for seeing the project through.  He expressed additional 
appreciation to members of the public and private businesses who contributed to and partnered 
with the City on the project. 
 
 Mr. White noted the passing of Father Beavers from St. Mary’s church.   
 
 Mayor Orr read into the record a letter she authored relating to recently passed Resolutions 
#6071-Creating a Special District for ‘Cheyenne Days – Legendary Nights Events’, July 17, 2020 
to July 26, 2020, in which the possession of open containers is permitted within the Downtown 
District Boundaries and #6072-Encouraging Summer Events at the Cheyenne D epot Plaza.  She 
advised both resolutions went into effect without her signature.  Mayor Orr stated the following:  
Resolution #6071- Creating a Special District for ‘Cheyenne Days – Legendary Nights Events’, 
July 17, 2020 to July 26, 2020, in which the possession of open containers is permitted within the 
  
Downtown District Boundaries.  The resolution was originally requested by the Downtown 
Development Authority for our consideration.   Upon further review and concern of budgetary 
constraints for carrying out their request, the DDA provided public testimony that they no longer 
wished to pursue the allowances granted to them in this resolution and asked for a “no” vote.   I 
sided with the request of the DDA and was a “no” vote. This resolution passed with myse lf and 
Mr. Laybo urn as “no” votes and went into effect without my signature.   Resolution #6072 
- Encouraging Summer Events at the Cheyenne Depot Plaza.  Several months ago, the City of 
Cheyenne Community Recreation and Events Department submitted a proposa l to City County 
Health for consideration of hosting the Friday Nights at the Plaza concert series, creating gated 
areas restricting the number of each area to meet the state guidelines of 250 people in each 
area.  This plan was submitted when Cheyenne had  experienced no new cases, and we were 
hopeful this downturn would continue.   Unfortunately, that was not the case. Cheyenne 
experienced an uptick in cases. Subsequently, City department officials who submitted the plan to 
county health made it known to me that they no longer thought we could carry the plan out.  I want 
to remind you that these events have been so successful that we have seen as many as 7,000 people 
in attendance at our outdoor concerts.   And certainly not within the new social distancing 
guidelines.  I apologize I did not consult with you first, however a decision needed to be made 
quickly at the request of sponsors and contract acts.   As mayor, I believe the decision was well 
within my scope as mayor to protect the health and safety of our community knowing the fact that 
we could no longer carry out the plan as previously approved by City County Health. To do so 
would be wrong. This resolution passed with myself and Mr. Laybo urn as “no” votes and went 
into effect without my signature. 
 
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:11 p.m.  
 
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August , 2020 