MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-08-10 | CLIP_ID: 762 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 762

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 10, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:07 p.m. via electronic conference meeting .  Attending electronic conference meeting  were:  
MAYOR – Marian J. Orr; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete 
Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Absent: Mike Luna.  Also 
attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk. 
 
 Expression of Appreciation to the City of Cheyenne by Wyoming Main Street. Matt Ashby 
representing Wyoming Main Street,  Chairman of the state Advisory Board, advised they are 
recognizing that the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority has been designated as a 2020 
accredited Main Street Program and the status is a top tier recognition. He provided information 
on the Main Street program including new number of businesses and employees in the state and 
city, volunteer hours, money raised for small businesses and communities involved in the program. 
He explained one reason they are recognizing the DDA is for their Covid-19 re sponse which 
included over $50,000 in relief grants provided to help keep businesses open. Mr. Ashby presented 
a certificate of appreciation to the City for their support of the nationally recognized Main Street 
approach and a certificate to DDA in recognition of their 2020 Main Street America  accredited 
program.  Mayor Orr expressed appreciation to the DDA and DDA Director Amber Ash. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Mr. Shanor recused himself from discussion and voting due 
to business affiliation with agenda i tem #1 4.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 27, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Orr opened a public hearing for a social club liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Alternative Arts Project Inc. d/b/a The Lincoln Theater, 1615 Central 
Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming. There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having 
been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing  and referred the item to the August 17,  2020 Finance 
Committee meeting.  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northwest of the intersection of Western Hills Boulevard and Yellowstone Road .  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final reading, 
  
seconded by Mr . Cook .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. (#4320) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MU (Mixed-Use) to MUB (Mixed-Use 
Business Emphasis) for property generally located northwest of the intersection of Western Hills 
Boulevard a nd Yellowstone Road .  Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr . Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. (#4321) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapter 2.29, Community Service Officers, 
of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4322) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
non-uniformed employees of the City for Cheyenne for Fiscal Year 2020 -2021.  Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  
Case. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4323) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Defining the terms and conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2020-2021.  Mr. White moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#4324) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Hawk’s 
Point Subdivision, a plat of a portion of the SE ¼, Section 33, T.14N, R.66W., 6th P.M., Cheyenne, 
Laramie County,  Wyoming (located between Lincolnway and Nationway, west of Ridge R oad) 
(Postponed from July 27, 2020). Mr. Case moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Mr. Case 
moved to amend by revised final plat map dated 7/27/2020 , seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion to 
amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main  motion as amended 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#6078) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for federal funding through the Transportation Alternatives Pr ogram administered by the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of constructing a multi-use path underpass 
for pedestrians and bicycles on College Drive connecting the Laramie County Community College 
Campus and the Sweetgrass Development (S pecific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6079) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for the BJA FY20 
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6080) 
 
 
  
 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Back 40 
Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a replat Lot 1, Block 1, Back 40 Subdivision, Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located north of West Lincolnway at Grant Avenue) (Sponsor – Mr. Case) – referred 
to Public Services Committee. 
 
 [CA] Preliminary Planned Unit Development (PUD) for The Enclave at Northgate, for Lot 8 and 
portions of Lots 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, and 12; Block 19; North Cheyenne, 2nd Filing; Cheyenne; Laramie 
County; Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Yellowstone Road, north of North Gate 
Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for The Enclave at Northgate, for Lot 8 and portions of Lots 6, 7, 9, 10, 
11, and 12; Block 19; North Cheyenne, 2nd Filing; Cheyenne; Laramie County; Wyoming (located 
west of and adjacent to Yellowstone Road, north of North Gate Avenue) – referred to Public 
Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding by and between  Laramie County, the City of Cheyenne, 
the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities, the Cheyenne/Laramie County Board of Health and the 
Cheyenne Regional Airport Board regarding management of the ESRI Enterprise .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#7205) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and 
Laramie County to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College 
and for an area of Laramie County immediately adjacent to the City (Revenue to  City) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for 
Animal Control and Animal Shelter Services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.     
 
[CA] Contract between Memorial Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional Medical 
Center (CRMC) and the Office of Youth Alternatives for Suicidal Ideation Assessment Services 
in the amount of $36,791.00 (Cheyenne Regional Medical Center (CRMC) Grant) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between Memorial Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional 
Medical Center and the City of Cheyenne Police Department for Law Enforcement Assisted 
Diversion (LEAD) Program (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee.    
 
[CA] Grant Agreement from the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation 
Administration, for the Reconstruction of Runway 09/27 -Phase 2 at the Cheyenne Regional 
Airport/Jerry Olson Field (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Cheyenne Youth Alternatives, and 
Laramie County , Wyoming  for Juvenile Probation Services  (Revenue to City) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract for on -call crisis center services between the Laramie County Community 
Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board and the Office of Youth Alternatives in the amount of 
$69,000.00 (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -15-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Inman 
Roofing, Inc., for the Aquatics Center Roof Replacement project (General Fund).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Inman Roofing, Inc., Cheyenne, in an amount not to 
exceed $182,628.00). (#7206) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -15-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Front 
Range Roofing Systems, LLC, for the Fleet Maintenance Facility and Parks Maintenance Facility 
Roof Replacements project (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid 
from Front Range Roofing Systems, LLC, Greeley, CO, in an amount not to exceed $460,020.00). 
(#7207) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -16-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and 
Containment Systems LLC, for the repair and expansion of Landfill Permanent Litter Fence 
Project (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Request to expand retail liquor license package store dimensions for Avanti, Inc. d/b/a Dell 
Range Liquor , 3806 Dell Range Blvd  (postponed from July 27, 2020) .  Mr. White moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to postpone to August 24, 2020, seconded 
by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing b ody 
present. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
  
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 24, 2020, at 6:00 p.m. via 
electronic conference meeting, for a transfer of ownership for a retail liquor license application 
filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Old Chicago Taproom II LLC d/b/a Old Chicago #74, 1734 
Meadowland Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by Wadsworth Old Chicago Inc. 
d/b/a Old Chicago Restaurant).     
 
 Under other business: 
  
 Mr. Laybourn expressed appreciation for extra effort at a recent Cheyenne  Symphony 
Orchestra performance at the Civic Center by City staff and partners of the Cheyenne Symphony 
Orchestra. 
 
 Mr. Laybourn followed up on Downtown Development Authority budgetary concerns that 
were discussed during the last  city council meeting.  He expressed c oncern with cancelling the 
  
façade improvement program and the DDA’s intent to leverage the reserve account for investments 
and developing projects. Mr. Laybourn requested the City C ouncil president to schedule a work 
session and also for the DDA to hold a public meeting to inform citizens about their visions and 
intent for the program. 
  
 Mayor Orr advised a ribbon cutting ceremony for the new court house building will be 
scheduled in the next few weeks. She provided information on the first court date to be held in the 
new building and expressed appreciation to staff working on the project. 
 
 Mayor Orr congratulated Cheyenne Legion Post 6 baseball for winning state title and 
expressed appreciation to Community Recreation & Events staff for opening and maintaining the 
baseball fields. 
  
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:23 p.m.  
 
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 15, 2020 