MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-08-24 | CLIP_ID: 763 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 763

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 24, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:07 p.m. via electronic conference meeting .  Attending electronic conference meeting  were: 
COUNCIL PRESIDENT – Dr. Mark Rinne; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White . Absent: 
Mayor Marian J. Orr.  Also attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by  Mr. Roybal.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 10, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 President Rinne opened a public hearing for a transfer of ownership for a retail liquor 
license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Old Chicago Taproom I I LLC d/b/a Old 
Chicago #74, 1734 Meadowland Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently  held by 
Wadsworth Old Chicago Inc. d/b/a Old Chicago Restaurant). Brian Proffitt, attorney representing 
applicant, provided background on the transfer of ownership request advising the former license 
operator filed for bankruptcy earlier this year.  He explained the applicant purchased assets out of 
the bankruptcy and the establishment will continue to operate as an Old Chicago.  Julia Weaver, 
restaurant manager, advised she was available for questions.  It was noted for the record that Mr. 
Shanor joined the meeting in progress during public comment at 6:05 p.m.  There being no further 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, President Rinne closed the hearing 
and referred the item to the September 8, 2020 Finance Committee meeting.  
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 15.50, Historic 
Design Guidelines, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) 
  
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Back 40 
Subdivision, 2nd Filing, a replat Lot 1, Block 1, Back 40 Subdivision, Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located north of West Lincolnway at Grant Avenue) .  Reporting for Public Services 
Committee, Mr. Ca se moved to adopt, seconded by Mr . Cook.  Mr. Case moved to amend by 
revised final plat map dated July 1, 2020, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#6081) 
  
RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of the Nita M. Lowey 21 st Century Learning 
Centers grant application to the Wyoming Department of Education on behalf of the Governing 
Body of t he City of Cheyenne to submit continuation application for year three of funding for 
afterschool programing and necessary support items.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna 
advised the item was reviewed  under other items at the August  17, 2020 Finan ce Committee  
meeting, therefore provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met.  Mr. Luna moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Shanor abstained from discussion and voting due to work affiliation 
with the Wyoming Department of Education.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#6082) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of the Senior Corps 2021 RSVP Competition 
grant application to the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) on behalf of the 
Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne to submit application for funding for Youth Alternatives, 
Special Friends RSVP Mentoring Program and necessary support items.   Mr. Luna advised the 
item was reviewed under other items at the August 17, 2020 Finance Committee meeting, therefore 
provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met.  Mr. Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#6083) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution #3597, a Citizen Participation Plan, which 
establishes objectives, procedures, requirements, and responsibilities for the involvement of lower 
income individuals, as well as the community at large in the development of a City Comprehensive 
Five Year Housing and Community Development Plan – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor 
– Mr. Luna) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Accepting a grant in the amount of $150,000.00 from the Cheyenne 
Community Recreation District (Recreation Mill) for the replacement of the restroom/concession 
building at the Cheyenne Junior League Complex – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – 
Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Creating a Special District for the ‘Golf, it’s the Least of our Problems’ 
Golf Tournament to be held on September 26, 2020, in which the possession of open containers is 
permitted within the Downtown District Boundaries – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving water and sanitary sewer services, by outside user water and 
sanitary sewer services agreements, for SJT, LLC, for Tracts 21, 22, and 23, Green Subdivision, 
3rd Filing, situated in the SW¼SW¼ of Section 22, Township 14 North, Range 66 West, of the 6th 
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Supporting the State of Wyoming Governor’s proposal to have the State 
Loan and Investment Board consider modifying its rules to adopt an allocation model fo r 
distribution of Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES ACT) funding to 
local governments.   City Attorney Michael O’Donnell provided information  on the resolution 
explaining G overnor Gordon proposed a method to distribute  CARES Act funding to local 
municipalities and counties utilizing a formula which considers population and number of Covid-
  
19 cases.  He explained $9 million would be allocated for Cheyenne and that Governor Gordon 
asked for comments on the split between municipalities and counties which the resolution includes.  
He noted a 50/50 split does not reflect where most citizens in the state reside as 69% percent reside 
in recognized municipalities.  The proposed resolution recommends the split distribution of 1/3 to 
2/3 (2/3 to municipalities) which accounts for where most residents reside.  It also asks for 
consideration of a  new process for distribution  of funds .  Mr. O’Donnell provided further 
information on the distribution process noting the approach of first come first serve wasn’t fair due 
to the application process and the resolution request is for a downstream distribution to cities and 
counties.  Mr. O’Donnell explained the City is willing to sign a hold harmless agreement, whereas 
if monies aren’t spent correctly, the city would be responsible to repay those monies.  T hese 
specific funds would be deposited into a special revenue fund account (essentially a trust fund and 
withdrawals can only take place in certain situations).  Funding requests would be presented to the 
Chief Executive Designee of the funds who would determine if the request is appropriate, noting 
funds must be spent by December 31, 2020.  It was noted the current process is cumbersome, slow, 
difficult and the proposed process would be efficient and would allow money distribution to be in 
a more rapid manner.  The City would be required to keep appropriate records which are subject 
to audit and would also be monitored by the City Treasurer.  Mr. O’Donnell advised the suggested 
path is for the City to adopt a statement of support that is included in the resolution. Upon inquiry, 
Mr. O’Donnell explained he has been working on the CARES Act funding application process for 
the City and due to the complexity of the current process and he drafted the resolution to provide 
efficiency and allow for rapid distribution of funds .  He further advised  the proposed idea was 
generally discussed with other communities and they seemed supportive and noted if adopted, he 
would reach out to through WAM to other communities.  Upon further inquiry, Mr. O’Donnell 
provided information involving the current process authorizing the City to submit grant 
applications in amounts not exceeding $5 million dollars, which was adopted by resolution in June 
of 2020.   He noted if a grant application exceeded that threshold, it would need to come before 
the governing body for approval.  It was confirmed that unless the resolution was postponed, the 
resolution is on final consideration .  Comments were provided related to  the limited timing 
involving the opportunity to apply for funding and support was voiced for  the resolution under 
suspension of the rules.  Dr. Rinne advised normally the resolution would have been referred to 
the Finance Comm ittee but instead the governing body has been asked to expedite the adoption 
process by suspension of rules to adopt at this meeting.  Mr. O’Donnell emphasized the tight time 
constraint and anticipated a SLIB meeting this Thursday , August 27 th, to consider the allocation 
model.  Upon inquiry, Mr. O’Donnell explained a hold harmless agreement would provide 
protection to the State of Wyoming so that they aren’t exposed to findings that funds weren’t spent 
correctly and would apply to all local governments .  He noted he is c onfident Governor Gordon 
would support the protection.  Gunnar Malm, Laramie County Commissioner, advised he was 
unaware of the resolution  and would like additional infor mation and discussion between 
community partners prior to considering whether or not to support the effort.  Amber Ash, DDA 
Executive Director, questioned how this will impact earmarked allocation for outside agencies in 
the City’s budget. Mr. O’Donnell confirmed the funding allocations for outside agencies such as 
the DDA were previously allocated.  He noted the City has gone before SLIB and have already 
been awarded grants.  Ms. Ash requested consideration of funding allocation by amendment in the 
City’s budget ordinance.  Dr. Rinne explained if th e resolution is  referred to the Finance 
Committee, there would be a 3 week delay as next week is a 5th week with no regular meetings of 
  
the governing body.  He reported there is the option to suspend rules which requires a motion and 
second and a ¾ affirmative vote of qualified members of the governing body. Upon inquiry, Kris 
Jones, City Clerk, advised in order to schedule a special meeting of the governing body, a press 
release would need to be issued 24 hours prior to the meeting to comply with public notification 
requirements.  Ms. Jones confirmed the resolution could be postponed to a special meeting of the 
governing body and noted a special Finance Committee meeting could also be scheduled prior to 
the special meeting of the governing body to consider a recommendation on the agenda item.    
Discussion continued involving proposed accountable method of a 50/50 split that would benefit 
the Laramie C ounty Commissioners and government and questions of what it would do for the 
City and municipalities , support of suspending rules  and the City Attorney’s expertise and 
significant amount of grant funding.  Mr. Laybourn moved to suspend rules.  Motion died due to 
lack of second.  Mr. Case moved to postpone to August 26, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. to a special meeting 
of the governing body, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Shanor abstained from voting due to a work 
affiliation.  Support was expressed for scheduling a special meeting to allow for dialogue with the 
Laramie County Commissioners,  and it was noted that if the resolution is adopted, it would be 
ready in time for the August 27 th SLIB meeting.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Laybourn voting no. 
  
Preliminary Planned Unit Development (PUD) for The Enclave at Northgate, for Lot 8 and 
portions of Lots 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, and 12; Block 19; North Cheyenne, 2nd Filing; Cheyenne; Laramie 
County; Wyoming (located west of and  adjacent to Yellowstone Road, north of North Gate 
Avenue).  Mr. Case moved to acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation to 
approve with conditions #1-4, seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
 Preliminary Plat for The Enclave at Northgate, for Lot 8 and portions of Lots 6, 7, 9, 10, 
11, and 12; Block 19; North Cheyenne, 2nd Filing; Cheyenne; Laramie County; Wyoming (located 
west of and adjacent to Yellowstone Road, north of North Gate Avenue) . Mr. Case moved to 
acknowledge the Planning Commissions recommendation to approve with conditions  #1-6, 
seconded by Mr . Cook .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and 
Laramie County to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College 
and for an area of Laramie County immediately adjacent to the City (Revenue to City) . Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue in the amount of $83,816.00). (#7213) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for 
Animal Control and Animal Shelter Services (General Fund ).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (amount not to exceed $563,500.00). (#7214)     
 
[CA] Contract between Memorial Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional Medical 
Center (CRMC) and the Office of Youth Alternatives for Suicidal Ideation Assessment Services 
in the amount of $36,791.00 (Cheyenne Regional Medical Center (CRMC) Grant) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#7215) 
  
[CA] Grant Agreement between Memorial Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional 
Medical Center and the City of Cheyenne Police Department for Law Enforcement Assisted 
Diversion (LEAD) Program (Revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (revenue in 
the amount of $244,624.00). (#7216) 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement from the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation 
Administration, for the Reconstruction of Runway 09/27 -Phase 2 at the Cheyenne Regional 
Airport/Jerry Olson Field (Revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7217) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Cheyenne Youth Alternatives, and 
Laramie County , Wyoming  for Juvenile Probation Services  (Revenue to City) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in the amount of $60,000). (#7218) 
 
[CA] Contract for on -call crisis center services between the Laramie County Community 
Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board and the Office of Youth Alternatives in the amount of 
$69,000.00 (Revenue to City) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in the amount of  
$69,000.00). (#7219) 
 
 Grant agreement from the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation 
Administration, for the reconstruction of Runway 09/27 (reimbursable agreement for precision 
approach path indicator and localizer design) at the Cheyenne Regional Airport/Jerry Olson Field. 
Nathan Banton, Cheyenne Regional Airport General Manager, provided information on the grant 
and project and voiced support for the project.   Mr. Luna advised the item was reviewed under 
other business at the August 17, 2020 Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 
2 of City Code have been met .  Mr. Luna moved to approve in an amount $54,189.00, seconded 
by Mr. Case.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. [Clerk’s 
note:  Mr. White was present during discussion but absent during vote of this item and returned 
prior to discussion of the next agenda item.] (#7220)  
 
[CA] Volleyball Officiating Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Officials for Fun 
Club for the Community Recreation and Events 2020-2021 season for youth and adult volleyball 
leagues (Recreation Programs Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Notice of renewal of United States Department of Agriculture Lease Number 57 -82HW-
1-0171/City Contract No. 150, between the United States of America, acting through the 
Agricultural Research Service, and the  City of Cheyenne for the lease of 1,998 acres of land 
known as the High Plains Grasslands Research Station, for the period of October 1, 2019 through 
September 30, 2020  (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Notice of renewal of United States Department of Agriculture Lease Number 57 -82HW-
1-0171/City Contract No. 150, between the United States of America, acting through the 
Agricultural Research Service, and the  City of Cheyenne for the lease of 1,998 acres o f land 
known as the High Plains Grasslands Research Station, for the period of October 1, 2020 through 
September 30, 2021 (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #6933 between the City of Cheyenne and V ortex 
International Aquatic Play Solutions to upgrade ADA Visual Access Distinction and Construction 
(General Fund Reserves) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 [CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6981 between the City of Cheyenne and Plan 
One/Architects to extend the completion date for roof replacements at Fleet Maintenance, Parks 
Maintenance and Cheyenne Aquatics Center – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -16-20 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and 
Containment Systems LLC, for the repair and expansion of Landfill Permanent Litter Fence 
Project (Solid Waste Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from 
Containment Systems LLC, Birmingham, AL, in an amount not to exceed $198,000.00). (#7221) 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Alamo Industrial, Seguin, 
TX, for the purchase of an Alamo Versa Pro Three Gang Flail Mower (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Request to expand retail liquor license package store dimensions for Avanti, Inc. d/b/a Dell 
Range Liquor, 3806 Dell Range Blvd  (postponed from August 10, 2020). Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Social club liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Alternative Arts 
Project Inc. d/b/a The Lincoln Theater, 1615 Central Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming.   Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Appointments of Jay Sullivan and Dr. Tracey Kinney to the Laramie County Juvenile 
Services Joint Powers Board.  Mr.  Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
Announcement was made of Public Hearing to be held September 14, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. 
via electronic conference meeting, for a transfer of ownership for a resort liquor license application 
filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Omsai Hospitality, LLC d/b/a Red Lion and Conference 
Center of Cheyenne, 204 W. Fox Farm Rd., Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by 
Driftwood Special Servicing, LLC d/b/a Red Lion Hotel Cheyenne & Conference Center). 
 
Announcement was made that due to the Labor Day holiday on Monday, September 7, 
2020, the regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held as follows: 
Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, September 8, 2020 at 11:00 a.m. via electronic conference 
meeting and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday, September 9, 2020 at Noon via 
electronic conference meeting. 
 
  
 Under other business: 
  
 Mr. Luna apologized for inadvertently not removing his hat during the Pledge of 
Allegiance during a recent City Council meeting. 
 
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:55 p.m.  
 
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 2, 2020 