MEETING: Special Meeting of the Governing Body - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-08-26 | CLIP_ID: 764 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 764

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 26, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in special session on this date beginning 
at 6:03 p.m. via electronic conference meeting .  Attending electronic conference meeting  were: 
COUNCIL PRESIDENT – Dr. Mark Rinne; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Scott Royba l, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Absent: 
Mayor Marian J. Orr.  Also attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk. 
 
RESOLUTION – Supporting the State of Wyoming Governor’s proposal to have the State 
Loan and Investment Board consider modifying its rules to adopt an all ocation model for 
distribution of Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES ACT) funding to 
local governments.  City Attorney Michael O’Donnell advised that due to concerns raised, it is 
recommended that the last four paragraphs (Whereas Clauses) on page 1 be removed  which 
involves funding distribution formulas.  Mr. O’Donnell suggested that all counties would rec eive 
an amount if they requested up -front funding.  Gunner Malm, Laramie County Commissioner, 
commented that Mr. O’Donnell’s comments relating to counties requesting up -front funding is 
most likely correct.  Mr. O’Donnell confirmed the city was set to rece ive $9 million. Comments 
were made that larger impacts have been felt by areas that are heavier populated concerning the 
pandemic.  Discussion included Governor Gordon’s distribution formula options and impacts, 
grant application submittals and approval pr ocess, and expenditure of funding timeline of 
December 30, 2020.  Mr. Case moved to remove the last four paragraphs on page 1 pertaining to 
the distribution formula, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr.  Shanor abstained from discussion and 
voting due to work affiliation with the Wyoming Department of Education.  Additional comments 
were made in regard to proposed funding split between cities and counties , timeline concerns, 
cooperation between municipalities, and support for a population -based distribution.  Motion to 
amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mr. Esquibel voting “no”.  Motion to adopt, as amended carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present.   (#6084)             
 
RESOLUTION – Supporting the hiring of additional Park Maintenance full-time staff and 
seasonals and the pending re -appropriation of $244,000.00.  (General Fund) (SPONSORS – 
ROCKY CASE, BRIAN COOK, MIKE LUNA, AND JEFF WHITE) Mr. Case moved to suspend 
the ru les to adopt the resolution pursuant to State Statute §15 -1-115, seconded by Mr. Luna.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Mr. Case explained 
that he brought the resolution forward to mitigate on going maintenance issues with city 
maintained landscaping issues.  Mr. Case reported he has received numerous complaints from 
citizens and the proposal is to act quickly in an effort to save dying landscaping and prevent further 
decay.  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, read into the record a statement relating to budget 
reductions through out all city departments resulting from the COVID -19 pandemic and lack of 
revenues.  Ms. Nemecek’s sta tement advised that all Department Directors worked as a team 
equally to provide necessary budget cuts and should continue to work as a team when considering 
rehiring needed staff.  She further reported that although some suffering public services can be 
seen such as brown grass and dying trees, there are many other areas that are being neglected due 
to the lack of adequate staffing and funding.  Ms. Nemecek requested consideration of maintaining 
an equitable balance with providing and adding back resources such as staffing and funding.  Mr. 
Case moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Case moved to amend by striking “full time 
positions and ten seasonal” and replacing with “part time, temporary, or contract” throughout the 
resolution, and by striking “st riking all references to $224,000.00 and replacing it with 
$209,000.00, seconded by Mr. Luna.   Motion to amend carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present.  Upon inquiry, Teresa Moore, Community Recreation and Events 
Director, explained that they could hire additional staff in a two-week time frame and would look 
at all options to achieve Mr. Case’s resolution objectives.  Upon inquiry, Robin Lockman, City 
Treasurer, provided information relating to reserves funding and noted she sent an email on August 
26th to members of the governing body which contain ed extensive budget and reserves funding 
information.  Mr. Shanor commented on support of addressing  landscaping maintenance and 
supported Ms. Nemecek’s comments involving a balanced a pproach for the city’s needs as a 
whole.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by striking all references to $209,000.00 and replacing with 
$100,000.00, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Cook  voting “no”.  Main motion as twice 
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#6085)                                   
               
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:51 p.m.  
 
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 5, 2020 
 