MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-09-28 | CLIP_ID: 767 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 767

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
September 28, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:07 p.m. via electronic conference meeting .  Attending electronic conference meeting  were: 
COUNCIL PRESIDENT – Dr. Mark Rinne; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal , Dicky Shanor and Jeff 
White.  Absent: Mayor Marian J. Orr.  Also attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk. 
 
 Mr. Cook advised that as sponsor of agenda item #16, he wishes to withdraw the item at 
this time.  There being no objections, President Rinne advised th e item has been withdrawn . 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be routine 
items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.)  Upon request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Luna and Mr. Cook, agenda item # 13 was removed from the Consent Agenda.   Upon 
request by Mr. Shanor, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Luna and Mr. Cook, agenda item 
#18 (a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.   Mr. Luna moved to approve  remaining items, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing  body 
present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 14, 2020.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on September 21, 2020.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 15.50, Historic 
Design Guidelines, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Milward Simpson, member of Cheyenne Historic Preservation Board (HPB), advised 
he was available for any questions  and noted he has worked with the Planning & Dev elopment 
Department on the proposed changes that will provide efficiency and simplify the appeals process.  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Mr. Case moved to amend by substitute dated September 18, 2020, 
seconded by Mr . White .  Charles Bloom , Planning & Development Director, explained the 
amendment clarifies subsections where it may be  interpreted that a full building permit be 
submitted for review by the  HPB. Previously expressed concerns were reiterated relating to the 
lack of notification of adjacent property owners.   Upon inquiry, Mr. Bloom and Mr. Simpson 
advised they have not heard or been made aware of any comments or concerns from members of 
the public in the last 2 weeks regarding this proposal.  Further comments related adjacent property 
owner notification were  expressed noting that due to the current electronic meeting structure 
   
caused by the COVID pandemic, many people may not be aware of the proposed changes, 
therefore, they would not have offered comments/concerns.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Laybourn advised 
he has not spo ken to affected property owners . Supportive comments  were made  relating to 
proposed changes and appreciation was expressed to Mr. Simpson and Mr. Bloom for their work 
on the proposed changes.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn 
voting “no”.  [Clerk’s note:  Dr. Rinne advised as acting Chair, he would not be casting votes 
unless it would be to break a tie vote] (#4325)   
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming to create the Support Services Zone District and establishing design 
criteria.  Charles Bloom, Planning & Development Director, reported the purpose of the 
amendment is to create a new zone district in response to F .E. Warren Air Force Base proposed 
development on the edge of base property accessible to the public.  He advised that after reviewing 
the current Unified Development Code (UDC) it was  discovered there isn’t a use that would 
support military operations.  He noted the proposed amendments are a blend of several districts 
that are more practical for developers to utilize.  Mr. Bloom advised this is a major change that is 
proposed to create a unique  lot type t hat allows up to 90% lot coverage , has no set back 
requirements and can be built to property lines.  He reviewed proposed design criteria including: 
parking requirements, signage, multi-family requirements, commercial development standards and 
material requirements, big box building requirements, alternative equivalent option and a reduction 
in living landscape materials requirement to help with water conservation. It was noted that 
approximately 2 weeks ago this was presented by Brendan Ames, City’s Chief Econ omic 
Development Officer, to members of the military of which who seemed receptive of the plan.  Mr. 
Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Chapter 10.44, Weight Limits, of Title 10, 
Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Chapter 5.04, Business Licenses Generally, 
amending Chapter 5.08, Business License Fees, and creating a new Chapter 5.77, Nicotine Product 
Sales, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations; amending Chapter 8.64, Smokin g in Public 
Places, of Title 8, Health and Safety; and amending Chapter 9.16, Offenses By or Against Minors, 
of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Municipal Code of the  City of Cheyenne, Wyoming 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Rinne and Mr. White) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Buffalo 
Ridge Estates, Eleventh Filing, a replat of all of Lot 15, Block 21, Buffalo Ridge Estates, 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southeast o f the intersection of Hilltop Avenue 
and Bluff Place).  Casey Palma, Steil Surveying and agent for the owner, advised the final plat was 
defeated in February 2020 by a tie vote and is before the governing body again with minor changes.  
Mr. Palma reported past concerns were related to smaller proposed lot sizes than the surrounding 
   
neighborhood and street facing garage placement.  He advised concerns were reviewed and it was 
decided they would add a provision that would require side or alley loadin g garages that would 
prevent drivers backing onto Hil ltop.  Mr. Palma provided additional comments relating to lot 
sizes in relation to surrounding neighborhood  and previous county developments with required 
larger lot sizes due to septic system requirements.  It was noted that proposed lot width is identical 
to those on the west side of Hilltop.  Mr. Palma stated the proposed residential units would provide 
affordable housing prices as lower prices and smaller are desired for the community.  Additionally, 
he advised this is a p ositive infill project that will raise median home cost s in the neighborhood 
and the plat meets United Development Code (UDC) requirements in its entirety.  Upon inquiry, 
Mr. Palma provided additional lot size footprint information relating to total lot square footage and 
single-family versus duplex residential structure styles.  Mr. Case moved to adopt, seconded by 
Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne, Council President and acting chairman, relinquished duties of the Chair 
to Mr. White, Vice President, on this item for the purpose of being able to discuss the proposal.  
Dr. Rinne stated that proposed lots are 1/3 smaller than they are in the neighborhood and it’s hard 
to imagine 2 houses  fitting on that lot size .  He doesn’t think the proposed smaller lot size d 
residential units would benefit the neighborhood and is opposed to duplexes in this area.  Dr. Rinne 
noted this is similar to a project that was previously turned down in Ward 3.  Support was expressed 
for the project, infill developments and affordable housing.   Kris Jones, City Clerk, provided 
clarification regarding staff conditions relating to the Preliminary Plat on the agenda.   Mr. Cook 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  It was noted for the record 
that Mr. White as Acting Chairman for this item, did not cast a vote.  (#6091)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Providing for partial vacation of the Frontier North Final Plat .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6092) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. 16 -4-112 & 16-4-113.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded 
by Mr. Laybourn.  Concern was expressed related to the resolution’s accompanying memorandum 
from Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, regarding general funds for a new Police Crime Analyst 
position, asking Laramie County School District #1 for an additional $80,000.00 and the fulltime 
employee cap .  Upon inquiry,  Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, noted that the Ice & Events 
Maintenance Technician position wasn’t included in the budget and was one of the positions that 
was not rehired when vacated due to the hiring freeze.  Comment was made related to concern 
over filling a Recreation Specialist position at a higher rate than the maintenance technician and 
was not included in the FY 2021 budget.  Upon inquiry related to the Crime Lab Analyst position 
and in relation to the fulltime employee (FTE) cap, Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, advised 
he provided information at the recent Finance Committee meeting that there are additional budget 
funds for the position, however, they do not plan on hiring the position  and funding will go                                                              
towards next year’s budget.  Chief Kozak stated that due to uncertainty resulting from the COVID 
pandemic and possible future school closures , the city may not have to provide school resource 
officer services all year .  Ms. Lockman reported  the resolution adds the LCSD #1 revenue of 
$80,000.00 to the Police budget and it can be held in the Professional Services line item and noted 
the memorandum issued with the reappropriation is informational only, not a binding document.  
She further noted she can provide an updated memorandum if desired to reflect the discussion on 
   
this item.  Upon further inquiry, Ms. Lockman reported the resolution does not authorize the hiring 
of the position and the position could be filled if approved as the city would exceed the FTE cap.  
Michael O’Donnell, City Attorney, confirmed that the FTE cap remains in place by ordinance and 
the resolution i s only explanatory and doesn’t increase the FTE cap.  He further explained  the 
Chief has stated the position will not be filled but desires the opportunity to create the position.  It 
was noted that in order to increase the FTE cap, the ordinance would need to come back before 
the governing body to be amended.  Chief Kozak report ed that at the onset of the COVID 
pandemic, LCSD#1 was not billed when schools closed for resource officers as they weren’t in the 
schools, however, LCSD#1 felt obligated to honor the previous agreement and continued to pay 
the city.  Upon inquiry, Jason  Sanchez, Community Recreation & Events Deputy Director, 
reported that prior to the pandemic they had lost a programmer and maintenance technician at the 
Ice & Event s Center. They feel the programmer position is important for  success of the  
establishment and won’t increase FTE numbers but will be backfilling a position.  Mr. Sanchez 
and Ms. Lockman advised the position swap revenue can be made neutral by waiting a month to 
fill it along with other budget adjustments.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by adding the f ollowing 
footnote to the resolution:  Footnote 1 -Passage of this resolution is not an endorsement of the 
memorandum dated September 9, 2020 from City Treasurer Robin Lockman to Mayor Orr and 
members of the City Council, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Shanor st ated he believes the 
amendment makes it clear that there has been expressed consternation related to the memorandum. 
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” all members of the governing body present with the 
exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  Mr. Shanor moved to amend by deleting the Ice & Events 
Center row and adjusting totals accordingly , seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion to amend carried.  
Voting “yes”—all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn 
voting “no”.  Main motion as twice amended carried.  Voting “yes”—all member of the governing 
body present.  (#6093)                                      
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution #6058, the City of Cheyenne Comprehensive 
Consolidated Plan 2020-2024 and 2020 Annual Action Plan, prepared by the Cheyenne Housing 
and Community Development Office – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the Whitney Road Corridor Plan – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting and recommending the United States Congress propose and 
send to the states for ratification, an amendment to the United States Co nstitution clarifying the 
distinction between the rights of natural persons and the rights of corporations, unions, and other 
legal entities, and providing congress and the state legislatures the right to regulate monies raised 
and spent for political purposes – this item removed from agenda at sponsor’s request. 
 
 Preliminary Plat for Whitney Ranch, 4th Filing, a plat of a portion of the SE¼, Section 23, 
T14N, R66W, of the 6th PM, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of 
Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road) .  Mr. Case moved to acknowledge the Planning 
Commission’s recommendation to approve with conditions 1 a, b, c and d, 2 and 3, seconded by 
Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the 
exception Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.   
   
  Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne , Cheyenne Police 
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 for school resource officers for the 2020-
2021 school year and summer school 2021 (Revenue to City).  Chief Kozak advised negotiations 
were made with LCSD#1 who requested the following  changes: ability to flex out officer ’s 
schedules, if an officer is absent more than 5 days the city will replace the officer, LCSD#1 is not 
required to pay for professional training and if an officer is pulled for an emergency for half a day 
they don’t want to pay for the whole day.  Chief Kozak advised he brought up the charge of base 
salary for officers because of officer experience and he requested LCSD#1 pay for actual salary 
and benefits for 75% of year to which they agreed.  He further noted the city pays for insurance, 
uniforms, equipment, etc.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Laybourn. Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” all members present. (#7238) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO), and Summit Engineering for the East Park Greenway Underpass 
and Drainage Plan (MPO Federal Funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $68,030.00). (#7239) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the Wyoming Department of Transportation (W YDOT) and the City 
of Cheyenne Transit Program, to provide operating assistance in the amount of $198,533.00 for 
Fiscal Year 2021 (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the Wyoming Department of Health, Aging Division, to provide 
support services to persons 60 years or older under the Title III -B Program Grant for Fiscal Year 
2021 (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] A 0.008 Acre permanent and exclusive easement to construct, maintain, operate, remove, 
and replace a power line for the Christensen Road bridge and roadway lighting on property owned 
by Virginia Bowers within Laramie County, Wyo ming  (2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] A 0.053 Acre permanent and exclusive easement to construct, maintain, operate, remove, 
and replace a power line for the Christensen Road bridge and roadway lighting on property owned 
by Kathy Julius within Laramie County, Wyoming (2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 6786 between the City of Cheyenne and Novo 
Benefits, LLC, to extend the term for an additional three (3) year period (General Fund).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $214,755.00).  (#6786) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 7195 between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for additional construction services for the Prairie Avenue and Frontier Mall Drive 
Intersection Project (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $304,999.55). (#7195) 
 
   
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract # 6960 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corporation for cost impacts associated with unforeseen site conditions, partial release of retainage 
and reduction of retainage from 10% to 5% to meet current state statutes for the Chri stensen 
Railroad Overpass & Corridor Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $143,309.63). (#6960) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 2 to Contract # 6976 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corporation for partial release of retainage and additional funds for final landscaping for the Evers 
Blvd. Reconstruction Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(in an amount not to exceed $20,000.00). (#6976) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7200 between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group 
Inc. d/b/a/ Knife River for additional construction services and changes to retainage on the Allison 
Road and Cribbon Avenue Median Improvements Project (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -1-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and A1 
Organics for furnishing compost screening and grinding services for the City of Cheyenne, 
Compost Facility (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from 
A1 Organics, Eaton, CO, in an amount not to exceed $60,000.00). (#7240) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -4-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Mid-
America Pool Renovation, Inc. for the Cheyenne Aquatic Center Main Pool Shell Resurfacing 
Project (2012 Specific Purpose Option Tax Overage Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Mid -America Pool Renovation, Inc., Grandview, MO , in an amount not to 
exceed $194,135.00). (#7241) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-5-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Academy 
Sports Turf, Inc. for the Powers Field Synthetic Turf Replacement Project (Land and Water 
Conservation Grant and Recreation Programs Fund Player’s Fees).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accepted bid from Academy Sports Turf, Inc., Englewood, CO, in an amount not to exceed 
$199,000.00). (#7242) 
 
[CA] Transfer of ownership for a resort liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s 
Office for Omsai Hospitality, LLC d/b/a Red Lion Hotel and Conference Center of Cheyenne, 204 
W. Fox Farm Rd., Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by Driftwood Special S ervicing, 
LLC d/b/a Red Lion Hotel Cheyenne & Conference Center).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 
   
 Report of Community Facility Fees Fiscal Year 2019/2020 pursuant to Section 4.2.5 of the 
Unified Development Code (UDC).   Charles Bloom, Planning & Development Director, reported 
these are park impact fees the city has received and includes public infrastructure fees received.  
Mr. Bloom provided additional information including:  The $400.00 fee is a common amount that 
is charged with single family homes, there are 2 different ways to collect fees with building permits 
and also at time of subdivision  and developer is required to bring in park acquisition fees which 
could vary in price as these are redistributed and used for the particular development.  Mr. Luna 
moved to acknowledge receipt of report, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - 
all members of the governing body present. 
 
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:19 p.m.  
 
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  October 7, 2020 