MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-10-12 | CLIP_ID: 769 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 769

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
October 12, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:06 p.m. via electronic conference meeting .  Attending electronic conference meeting  were: 
MAYOR – Marian J. Orr (joining meeting at 6:08 p.m.) ; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, 
Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky 
Shanor and Jeff White.   Also attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  [Clerk’s note: Due to technical 
difficulties, Dr. Rinne, Council President, Chaired agenda items 1 through 5, relinquishing duties 
to Mayor Orr at 6:08 p.m. during discussion of agenda item 6.]  
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. )  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Luna.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 28, 2020.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming to create the Support Services Zone District and establishing design criteria.  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr . Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
(#4326) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Chapter 10.44, Weight Limits, of Title 10, 
Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Case moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook. It was noted that Police Chief Brian Kozak 
had contacted local trucking companies and had received a response .  Based on the response he 
would like to postpone the ordinance for further review.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to October 
26, 2020, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 5.04, Business Licenses Generally, 
amending Chapter 5.08, Business License Fees, and creating a new Chapter 5.77, Nicotine Product 
Sales, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations; amending Chapter 8.64, Smoking in Public 
Places, of Title 8, Health and Safety; and amending Chapter 9.16, Offenses By or Against Minors, 
of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheye nne, Wyoming.  
Nicholas Vaughn commented in support of the ordinance and stated he works in education and has 
   
seen a rise in tobacco use in youth.  He believes enforcing the purchase age of 21+ can help deter 
addiction to nicotine at a young age.  Brittany Wardle, Cheyenne Regional Medical Center, advised 
the ordinance change aligns with federal and state laws  and effective t obacco retail licensing 
prevents illegal tobacco sales.  She added that an e ffective licensing system includes fee s, the 
option to suspend/revoke a license and the ordinance changes allow for local enforcement and will 
help curb nicotine addiction in the community.  Mr. Case advised there was n o recommendation 
from Public Services Committee.   Mr. Case moved to approve on second re ading, seconded by 
Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to amend page 2, section 2, in the second paragraph by striking the 
“one hundred twenty-five dollars” license fee and replacing with “sixty-five dollars” and making 
the same change to the numerical portion in parenthesis, seconded by Mr. Case.  Mr. White advised 
the fee reduction is to alleviate cost increase concerns , noting it will keep the cost the same as it 
currently is.  Opposition to the amendment was voiced noting the increase is equivalent to $5.00 a 
month.  Comments were made related to the effects of nicotine addiction and the affiliated costs 
to society.  Mayor Orr advised, upon inquiry, the City does not fund research.  Mr. White reported 
the cost increase was proposed and intend ed to help with expenses associated with compliance 
checks performed by the Police Department.  Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, upon inquiry, 
advised that currently the fees for tobacco licenses go into the general fund , however , the 
Governing Body can request  the Treasurer’s Office to appropriate the  revenue annually to the 
Police Department.  Discussion continued on poor timing of  increasing regulatory fines on small 
businesses, ordinance changes creating an additional layer of administrative fees and compliance 
with state and federal laws.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mayor Orr and Dr. Rinne v oting “no”.  
Main motion as amended carried . Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Mr. Luna, Mayor Orr and Mr. Shanor voting “no”.   
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 8.56.070, Loudspeakers, Sound Cars, 
and Sound Trucks, of Chapter 8.56, Noise Control, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Case) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from HR (High -Density Residential) to CB 
(Community Business) for property generally located east of Interstate 25 and north of Central 
Avenue adjacent to Hynds Boulevard – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Case) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification of Lot 1, Block 2 and Lot 1, Block 3, Back 40 
Subdivision Second Filing from M UB (Mixed -Use Business Emphasis) to CB (Community 
Business) for property generally located north of West Lincolnway at Grant Avenue – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
 
 
 
   
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Vacating the entirety of the Stinson Avenue right-of-way 
lying between Blocks 404 and 410, Original City, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming and south 
of West Lincolnway Highway – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Case, Mr.  
Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White)   
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
define, establish permissibility, and create Specific Use Standards for the use ‘Emergency Shelter’ 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Case, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White) 
   
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution #6058, the City of Cheyenne Comprehensive 
Consolidated Plan 2020-2024 and 2020 Annual Action Plan, prepared by the Cheyenne Housing 
and Community Development Office.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6094) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the Whitney Road Corridor Plan .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6095) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submittal of a request to the Wyoming State Loan and 
Investment Board to amend Drinking Water State Revolving Fund Loan #133 from $4.9 million 
to $7.4 million for the City of Cheyenne Hydroelectric Generation Facility Project and authorizing 
the Mayor, City Clerk, and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to sign all loan documents 
– referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Sweetgrass, 4th Filing, a replat of all of Block 1, (Lots 1 thru 8 inclusive), Sweetgrass, 3 rd Filing, 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of E. College Drive and 
Goodnight Trail) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting an amendment to the Future Land Use Map in PlanCheyenne, 
the Master Plan for the City of Cheyenne and the Comprehensive Plan for portions of Laramie 
County, amending the Land Use Category for property generally located east of  Interstate 25 and 
north of Central Avenue adjacent to Hynds Boulevard from Public/Quasi -Public to Community 
Business – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cole 
School Addition, a replat of all of Block 569 & 570, Original City of Cheyenne, including the 16’ 
alley rights-of-way of said blocks; and portions of adjacent rights-of-way (O’Neil Ave., W. 8th St., 
Thomes Ave., & Bent Ave.); and all of Block 2, Roberts Place, including the 16’ alley right -of-
way, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of 
Bent Avenue and W. 9th Street – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Creating a Special District for the DDA “Boos & Booze” Halloween Pub 
Crawl to be held on October 31, 2020, in which the possession of open containers is permitted 
within the Downtown District Bound aries – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. Case) 
   
[CA] Agreement between the Wyoming Department of Transportation (W YDOT) and the City 
of Cheyenne Transit Program, to provide operating assistance in the amount of $198,533.00 for 
Fiscal Year 2021 (Revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried  (in an amount not to 
exceed $198,533.00). (#7243) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the Wyoming Department of Health, Aging Division, to provide 
support services to persons 60 years or older under the Title III -B Program Grant for Fiscal Year 
2021 (Revenue to City) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried  (in an amount not to exceed 
$72,456.00). (#7244) 
 
[CA] A 0.008 Acre permanent and exclusive easement to construct, maintain, operate, remove, 
and replace a power line for the Christensen Road bridge and roadway lighting on property owned 
by Virginia Bowers within Laramie County, Wyoming (2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7245) 
 
[CA] A 0.053 Acre permanent and exclusive easement to construct, maintain, operate, remove, 
and replace a power line for the Christensen Road bridge and roadway lighting on property owned 
by Kathy Julius within Laramie County, Wyoming (2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7246) 
 
[CA] Agreement to fulfill City Contract No. 6949 between the City of Cheyenne and Summit 
Engineering, LLC for providing design services for five Greenway segments and 35% design 
services for segment #6 (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7200 between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group 
Inc. d/b/a/ Knife River for additional construction services and changes to retainage on the Allison 
Road and Cribbon Avenue Median Improvements Project (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $28,916.10). (#7200) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Professional Services Agreement #7003 between the City of 
Cheyenne on behalf of the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization and Kimley -Horn 
Associates, Inc., for the PlanCheyenne Update:  2019-2045 (MPO Federal Funding) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #4 to Professional Services Agreement #6552 between the City of 
Cheyenne and HDR Engineering, Inc. for the Prairie Ave. & Frontier Mall Dr. Intersection 
Improvements Project (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7207 with Front Range Roofing Systems, LLC, for 
the roof replacement for Parks Shop and Fleet Maintenance (General Fund -Capitol Improvement 
Project) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-4-21 for furnishing ten (10) portable litter fences for the City of 
Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.    
 
   
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-6-21 for furnishing one (1) new 16’ wide area mower for the City 
for Cheyenne Parks Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -2-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2020 -2021 patch truck for the 
City of Cheyenne Street and Alle y Department (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Other business:  
  
 Mr.  Laybourn commented on conducting public business in a rushed manner.  
 
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:36 p.m.  
 
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  October 21, 2020 