MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-10-26 | CLIP_ID: 771 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 771

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
October 26, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:06 p.m. via electronic conference meeting .  Attending electronic conference meeting  were: 
COUNCIL PRESIDENT – Dr. Mark Rinne; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mike Luna,  Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Absent: 
Mayor Marian Orr.  Also attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed  with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. )  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. White and Mr. Luna, agenda items #14 & #21 (c) were removed from the Consent 
Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 12, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on October 19, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapter 5.04, Business Licenses Generally, 
amending Chapter 5.08, Business License Fees, and creating a new Chapter 5.77, Nicotine Product 
Sales, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations; amending Chapter 8.64, Smoking in Public 
Places, of Title 8, Health and Safety; and amending Chapter 9.16, Offenses By or Against Minors, 
of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  
Joe Chenchar, Assistant City Attorney, provided a staff report stating the ordinance will increase 
the legal age to purchase nicotine to 21 which aligns code with state and federal law.  He provided 
the following information on the ordinance: application fee will remain the same, soft  drink 
licensing requirement will be r emoved, r egulatory provisions have been added  giving the 
governing body the ability to suspend or revoke a license and the fines for violating city code have 
been increased.   Brittany Wardle, Cheyenne Regional Medical Center , voiced support for the 
ordinance, reiterated that increasing the legal age to purchase nicotine to  21 aligns with state and 
federal law s, noted the ordinance provides for authority and enforcement for  police officers , 
licensing prevents illegal sales and provides structure so businesses comply and advised the effects 
of nicotine use is the leading cause of preventable death in the United States.   Mr. White moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Dr. Rinne relinquished duties of the 
Chair to Mr. Luna.  Dr. Rinne advised the ordinance brings code into compliance with state and 
federal guidelines, allows for removal of license after four (4) offenses, and stated he believes the 
   
fines should be onerous.  He further commented on: businesses selling to minors, state and federal 
laws and nicotine being the most addictive drug  contributing to disease and deaths.  Dr. Rinne 
stated he does not see the proposed changes to be devastating to small businesses, noting most 
businesses selling nicotine are large corporations.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Chenchar reported that if an 
alleged offender p leads not guilty , they will get a trial date  and further advised in that case, he 
would represent the city and the officer issuing the citation would be the witness.  Upon further 
inquiry, Mr. Chenchar advised Municipal Court minor infractions are being tried and prosecuted 
currently and that maybe some cases in higher courts are not currently being tried due to COVID-
19.  Mr. Chenchar further advised  the fines would be the responsibility of the citation holder, 
noting the issuing officer would have discretion to issue to either the individual employee or 
business owner.  Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, advised it is his understanding that some 
low-level misdemeanor crimes are being dismissed at the Circuit Court level  and that infractions 
relating to this ordinance will be at the municipal level.  Concerns were raised relating to citing 
employees who may be financially s truggling and  local bar owners who have been damaged 
exponentially by COVID-19 by adding more financial burden.  It was further noted the proposed 
increase in administrative fees are not required by state statute and would be an economic 
devastation when currently 1in 5 businesses are closing down.  Further comments were made in 
support of the ordinance amendments as businesses should be following the age requirement of 21 
to purchase nicotine and that most businesses selling nicotine products are big box c orporations 
not small businesses.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present 
with the exception of Mr. Case, Mr. Luna, and Mr. Shanor voting “no”.   
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Chapter 10.44, Weight Limits, of Title 10, 
Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. (Postponed from 
October 12, 2020).  Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, reported the proposed amendment will 
provide for updating the current ordinance  for the purpose of helping to prevent unnecessary 
damage to residential streets from heavy semi-truck traffic on smaller less traveled streets and will 
allow for enforcement.  He advised the amendment would limit the weight l oad permissible on 
residential streets and that current language does not provide for these regulations, noting the heavy 
loads damage infrastructure and bridges  and they require more time to stop.  He provided the 
following information relating to the pro posed substitute: change from complete prohibition of 
heavy truck travel to allow for trucks that have scheduled stops  (semis can be on streets if they 
have a scheduled delivery), provides a Schedule H for load restrictions, applies to certain weights 
and noted delivery trucks such as Amazon won’t be impacted.  Chief Kozak reported he did not 
want to have a standard that was different than federal and state laws and explained companies 
that have a need to go over federal and state law weight limits can do so by obtaining a permit.  He 
further noted that trucks that can drive on highways without a permit can also drive on city streets 
without a permit and that the city will allow overweight permits for divisible loads .  It was noted 
the Police Department Traffic Unit will be trained in weight enforcement if  the ordinance is 
approved and that cause must exist before a truck can be weighed.   Upon inquiry, Chief Kozak 
explained he plans to purchase portable scales with drug cartel money.  He advised current truck 
routes will be maintained as listed in Schedule I and the city will allow 117,000 pounds without a 
permit on truck routes  which are designed for heavier loads.   He reported a public meeting was 
held with the trucking industry last week and all of their recommendations have been included in 
the proposed substitute amendment.  It was noted that one heavy load has the same impact as 9,000 
   
cars, pavement is designed to last 20 years at the 80,000 lb. level and that heavy trucks can wear 
pavement out in 7 years.   He reported the proposed permits will be intr oduced by resolution .  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Dr. Rinne relinquished Chair to Mr. White.  Chief Kozak advised he 
emailed the proposed substitute to interested parties on Friday, October 23rd.  He noted there were 
approximately 30 people from trucking industry  who attended the meeting on Tuesday, October 
20th with city staff and the primary area of concern was there were streets on Schedule H that they 
didn’t want on the schedule and  those have been removed .  Chief Kozak reported he r eceived 
feedback that permits are reasonable and contain every possible use and that the proposed fees are 
fair.  He noted he has not received any feedback on the proposed substitute.   Dr. Rinne moved to 
amend by substitute dated October 26, 2020, seconded by Mr. Case.  Support was voiced for the 
substitute ordinance and comment was made that the primary concerns voiced at the meeting with 
the trucking industry were Deming Drive, Parsley Boulevard and Ames Ave.   Anissa Gerard, 
Traffic Engineer, explained the streets with concern have been removed from Schedule H.  Kris 
Jones, City Clerk, confirmed the ordinance is on second reading.  Comments were made regarding 
importance of protecting city streets from damage and that  the proposed substitute i ncorporates 
feedback from the trucking industry.  Upon inquiry, Chief Kozak provided details relating to the 
proposed weight changes and advised those weights are consistent with state and federal 
requirements.  Chief Kozak advised a resolution would be necessary to set permit fees and that the 
intent is for the revenue to go toward enforcement efforts from the Police Department.  Discussion 
included concerns regarding equal enforcement for locals and out of state truckers and uncertainty 
regarding substance of proposed substitute.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” all members 
of the governing body  present with the exception of Mr. Case and Mr. Cook voting “ no”.  
Comments were made that although effected parties were involved with the process, it is not the 
appropriate time to add more regulations, permitting fees, and fines on  small businesses.  
Discussion included importance of protecting streets from unnecessary deterioration, open 
discussions held with the trucking industry  and anticipated additional feedback on proposed 
substitute.  Mr. Luna noted he received messages that industry members can’t access tonight’s 
Zoom meeting.   Rick Fierro, Ram Trucking Inc., advised he and his colleagues were under the 
impression the ordinance wasn’t going to be before the city council tonight.  Mr. Laybourn moved 
to postpone to November 9, 2020, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Katie Legerski, Executive Director for 
Wyoming Contractors Association, advised they have not had ample time to review the proposed 
substitute.  Ms. Jones, as a point of clarification, provided the timeline moving forward should the 
ordinance be postponed as follows: ordinance to Public Services Committee on November 3rd and 
November 17 th, and  to the City Council meeting on November 9 th with final approval on 
November 23rd.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present.  Upon inquiry by Ms. Jones, it was clarified that Mr. Luna and Mr. White did vote while 
chairing items #7 and #8 and that Dr. Rinne would only vote if it would affect the outcome while 
chairing the remaining agenda items.     
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 8.56.070, Loudspeakers, Sound Cars, 
and Sound Trucks, of Chapter 8.56, Noise Control, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Alessandra McCoy Fakelman, Deputy City Attorney, 
advised the purpose of the amendment is to change written permission for scenarios related to the 
ordinance from the mayor to the police chief and scenarios will require a permit in accordance 
   
with Section 8.56.060 of city code.  She reported a copy of the written permission shall be kept on 
file in the City Clerk’s office outlining the parameters of the approval.  She noted compliance is 
required with current noise provisions of city code.  Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Mr. Case, as sponsor, advised the purpose is to align the code with existing 
noise related city code requirements.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from HR (High -Density Residential) to CB 
(Community Business) for property generally located east of Interstate 25 and north of Central 
Avenue adjacent to Hynds Boulevard.  Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the C ity of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification of Lot 1, Block 2 and Lot 1, Block 3, Back 40 
Subdivision Second Filing from MUB (Mixed -Use Business Emphasis) to CB (Community 
Business) for property generally located north of West Lincolnway at Grant Av enue.  Mr. Case 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Luna. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Vacating the entirety of the Stinson Avenue right-of-way 
lying between Blocks 404 and 410, Original City, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming and south 
of West Lincolnway Highway.  Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
White.  Mr. Case moved to amend by substitute map dated October 9, 2020, seconded by Mr . 
White.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
define, establish permissibility, and create Specific Use Standards for the use ‘Emergency Shelter’. 
Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
   
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submittal of a request to the Wyoming State Loan and 
Investment Board to amend Drinking Water State Revolving Fund Loan #133 from $4.9 million 
to $7.4 million for the City of Cheyenne Hydroelectric Generation Facility Project and authorizing 
the Mayor, City Clerk, and the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to sign all loan documents.  
Mr. Shanor abstained.  Mr. Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Clint Bassett , Water 
Treatment Manger (BOPU), reported  BOPU is requesting the amendment to increase  the loan 
amount with a 0% interest rate.  Mr. Bassett provided information on the loan and project stating 
the funding is for design of the Hydroelectric Generation Facility  Project which started in 2013  
and feasibility and economic studies have been completed.  Mr. Basset explained the project went 
out to bid in May and the range of received bids were from $ 5.3 million to $7 million and they 
weren’t able to fund the project and had to reject all bids.  He advised some factors relating to the 
higher bids were a busy bid ding time, labor shortage in  the construction industry driving up 
construction prices and noted they have added components to the project.  He further reported they 
   
plan to rebid the project in D ecember 2020 and they will be s eparating project components that 
can be completed at a later date.  Mr. Bassett further explaine d the loan repayment will increase 
and the project will need to be supplemented by water revenue.  Comments were made regarding 
the importance of the project, providing public awareness of such projects relating to the consent 
agenda process and wildfires and droughts involving the BOPU.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present.  (#6097) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Sweetgrass, 4th Filing, a replat of all of Block 1, (Lots 1 thru 8 inclusive), Sweetgrass, 3 rd Filing, 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of E. College Drive and 
Goodnight Trail).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6098) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting an amendment to the Future Land Use Map in PlanCheyenne, 
the Master Plan for the City of Cheyenne and the Comprehensive Plan for portions of Laramie 
County, amending the Land Use Category for property generally located east of  Interstate 25 and 
north of Central Avenue adjacent to Hynds Boulevard from Public/Quasi -Public to Community 
Business.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6099) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Cole 
School Addition, a replat of all of Block 569 & 570, Original City of Cheyenne, including the 16’ 
alley rights-of-way of said blocks; and portions of adjacent rights-of-way (O’Neil Ave., W. 8th St., 
Thomes Ave., & Bent Ave.); and all of Block 2, Roberts Place, in cluding the 16’ alley right -of-
way, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of the intersection of 
Bent Avenue and W. 9th Street.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6100) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Creating a Special District for the DDA “Boos & Booze” Halloween Pub 
Crawl to be held on October 31, 2020, in which the possession of open containers is permitted 
within the Downtown District Boundaries.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6101) 
 
[CA] Agreement to fulfill City Contract No. 6949 between the City of Cheyenne and Summit 
Engineering, LLC for providing design services for five Greenway segments and 35% design 
services for segment #6 (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6949) 
 
 Grant Award Agreement with the State of Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a 
grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management 
Agency (FEMA), Grant Programs Directorate, State Homeland Security Program (S HSP), grant 
fiscal year 2017, in the amount of $13,371.73 for the Cheyenne Regional Response Team No. 7 
(DHS Grand Code:  EMW-2017-SS-00067).  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  
City Clerk Kris Jones explained this item was heard under other items at the October 19th Finance 
Committee meeting and meets provisions of Title 2 of city code. Upon inquiry, Chief Kozak 
reported the Cheyenne Regional Response Team No. 7 is with the Fire Department and is for  
regional hazmat response.  Division Chief Byron Mathews, Fire and Rescue Department, advised 
the team is responsible for Laramie, Goshen and Platte Counties.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present. (#7249) 
   
 
[CA] Minimum Revenue Guaranteed Payment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, and Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team (CRAFT), for Skywest Airlines to 
provide scheduled flight services between Cheyenne, Wyoming and Denver, Colorado  (General 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO) and Ayres Associates for the Converse Avenue Reconstruction Plan 
(MPO Federal Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Unders tanding between EQ Capital LLC and the City of Cheyenne to 
build a technology ecosystem in Wyoming focused on investing in tech startups – referred to 
Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Professional Services Agreement #7003 between the City of 
Cheyenne on behalf of the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization and Kimley -Horn 
Associates, Inc., for the PlanCheyenne Update:  2019-2045 (MPO Federal Funding).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#7003) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #4 to Professional Services Agreement #6552 between the City of 
Cheyenne and HDR Engineering, Inc. for the Prairie Ave. & Frontier Mall Dr. Intersection 
Improvements Project (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $23,618.02). (#6552) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7207 with Front Range Roofing Systems, LLC, for 
the roof replacement for Parks Shop and Fleet Maintenance (General Fund -Capitol Improvement 
Project).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $1,890.00) (#7207) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 2 to Contract # 7195 between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for cost impacts associated with changes in site conditions, Force Account increases, 
and changes to retainage on the Prairie Avenue and Frontier Mall Drive Intersection Project (2019-
2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-4-21 for furnishing ten (10) portable litter fences for the City of 
Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from 
Metta Technologies, Toledo, OH, in an amount not to exceed $46,890.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-6-21 for furnishing one (1) new 16’ wide area mower for the City 
for Cheyenne Parks Division (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from L.L. Johnson Distributing Company, Denver, CO, in an amount not to exceed 
$100,454.41). 
 
 Consideration of Bid #E -2-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2020 -2021 patch truck for the 
City of Cheyenne Street and Alley Department (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax).  Jeff Brown, Floyd’s 
Truck Center, advised they submitted 1 bid with 2 different body companies  which met 100% of 
   
the required specifications.  Mr. Brown shared past frustrations experienced with the city’s bidding 
process.  Mr. Luna moved to accept bid from Floyd’s Truck Center, Cheyenne, in an amount not 
to exceed $207,063.00, seconded by Mr. White.  Upon inquiry, Craig LaVoy, Deputy Director of 
Public Works, advised they received 3 bids and that the low bidder was Floyd’s Truck Center and 
that staff recommends approval.  Mr. LaVoy reported the truck would serve as an additional patch 
truck for repairing city streets which will hopefully allow the department to accomplish twice the 
number of repairs.  Discussion included : importance of maintaining the city’s road system, 
inquiries as how to fund additional staff members to perform repairs  and efforts of the Public 
Works Department to provide adequate maintenance.  Upon inquiry, Mr. LaVoy advised he would 
be providing members of the governing body  a plan for ad ding staff for a second patch crew.  
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -7-21 for Ice Control Product for the City of Cheyenne Street & 
Alley Division (2015-2018 & 2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # S-3-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the East 12 th Street and Meadow Drive Mill and Overlay project (2015 -2018 & 
2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-6-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Dan Hart 
Patrol Service, LLC, for the Happy Jack Lan dfill Phase 2, Cells 1 and 2 and Cell 3 Excavation 
Earthworks (Earthworks Base Bid) Project (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-6-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Clean Air 
and Water Systems, LLC, for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1 and 2 and Cell 3 Excavation 
Earthworks (Geosynthetics Installation Base Bid) project (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-6-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Northwest 
Linings & Geotextile Products, Inc., for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1 and 2 and Cell 
3 Excavation Earthworks (Geosynthetics Procurement Base Bid) project (Solid Waste Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-10-21 for furnishing monitors, 2-in-1 computers and accessories 
for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department (Coronavirus Emergency Supplemental 
Funding, Bureau of Justice Assistance (CESF)) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 
 Under other business:  
 
   
 Brenda Roper comment ed on and requested clarification on why Felix Pino’s name was 
removed from the sign at transfer station. She advised that she spoke with Vicki Nemecek, Public 
Works Director, who explained the sign would be replaced.  Ms. Roper further requested Felix 
Pino’s name be added to the new sign.  Comments were made by Council members who stated 
they had received calls on the issue and that the sign will be replaced with a new sign.  It was noted 
the community supports Mr. Pino’s name on the sign and it was clarified  the new sign will have 
the city logo and identifies the building as the Tr ansfer Station.  It was further noted  “Felix Pino 
Transfer Station” is on the building .  Craig LaVoy, Deputy Director of Public Works,  reported 
there was a loss of communication and the sign was removed as it was hard to see , and the sign 
will be replaced and will contain Felix Pino’s name.    
 
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:48 p.m.  
 
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  November 5, 2020 