MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-11-09 | CLIP_ID: 773 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 773

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
November 9, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:06 p.m. via electronic conference meeting .  Attending electronic conference meeting  were: 
MAYOR - Marian Orr, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete 
Laybourn, Mike Luna,  Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Also 
attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. )  Mr. Luna moved to approv e, seconded by Mr. White.   
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing  body with the exception of Mr. 
Laybourn voting “no”.  [Kris Jones, City Clerk, reported for the record that Dr. Rinne joined the 
meeting 6:01 p.m. prior to the vote on Consent Agenda] 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 26, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 8.56.070, Loudspeakers, Sound Cars, 
and Sound Trucks, of Chapter 8.56, Noise Control, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Case 
moved to approve on thir d and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Roybal. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes”- all members of the governing body. (#4328) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from HR (High -Density Residential) to CB 
(Community Business) for property generally located east of Interstate 25 and north of Central 
Avenue adjacent to Hynds Boulevard.  Mr. Case moved to approve on third  and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
(#4329) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd  READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification of Lot 1, Block 2 and Lot 1, Block 3, Back 40 
Subdivision Second Filing from MUB (Mixed -Use Business Emphasis) to CB (Community 
Business) for property generally located nort h of West Lincolnway at Grant Avenue.  Mr. Case 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. (#4330) 
 
 
   
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Vacating the entirety of the Stinson Avenue right-of-way 
lying between Blocks 404 and 410, Original City, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming and south 
of West Lincolnway Highway.  Mr. Case moved to approve on third  and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4331) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
define, establish permissibility, and create Specific Use Standards for the use ‘Emergency Shelter’. 
Mr. Case moved to approve on third  and final reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4332) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 10.44, Weight Limits, of Title 10, 
Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. (Postponed from 
October 26, 2020). Sheila Foertsch, Katie Legerski, Executive Director for Wyoming Contractors, 
Association, Mike Vaughn, Vaughn Concrete Products  and Rick Fierro, Ram Trucking, voiced 
support for postponing or tabling the ordinance voicing concerns involving:  time to evaluate 
proposed amendments, limitations on delivery of products and loss of revenue to members of the 
trucking industry.  Chief Brian Kozak, Cheyenne Police Department, advised trucks that can drive 
on highways without a permit can also drive on city streets without a permit and that the city will 
allow overweight permits for divisible loads.  He reported t he change would be a burden to the 
Police Department Traffic Unit as they will be trained in weight enforcement and that cause must 
exist before a truck can be weighed.  Chief Kozak also noted the department has had multiple 
meetings with the trucking industry.  Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Dr. Rinne.  Mr. Case moved to amend by substitute titled “November 3, 2020 amendment to the 
October 26, 2020 amendment”, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing bod y.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend Section 10.44.70 by deleting 
the last sentence and replacing it with “Wyoming State Statute 31 -18-802 with Tables 2 and 2, 
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Discussion included potential postponement and concerns involving 
including statutes as they can be amended.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend Section 10.44.060 line two by adding the term 
“overweight”, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion to amend failed due to a tie vote.  Voting “yes” – 
Mr. Cook, Mayor Orr, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Case, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to November 
23, 2020, seconded by Mr. Ro ybal.  Discussion continued relating to the following concerns and 
topics:  Additional time requested to consider and evaluate proposed amendments, compliance 
with State and Federal regulations, enforcement, option s to table or postpone ordinance  and 
protecting longevity and integrity of city streets .  Kris Jones, City Clerk, provided clarification 
relating to potential postponement timelines.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body.                 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 2.84.070, Board of Adjustment, of 
Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, 
of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to correct cross references to the Board 
of Adjustment – referred to Public Services Committee.  
 
 
   
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 15.52.060(B), Notification of Issuance 
or Denial -Appeal, and Section 15.52.100, Variances, of Chapter 15.52, Solar Access Permit 
System, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, to correct cross references to the Board of Adjustment – referred to Public Services 
Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – establishing a Planned Unit Development (PUD) District 
for property generally located northwest of the intersection of North Gate Avenue and Yellowstone 
Road – referred to Public Services Committee.   
  
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the 
amount of $39,348.39 for City of Cheyenne accounts and $23,290.93 for Board of Public Utilities 
sanitation accounts pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16-4-502 – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving water and sanitary sewer services, by Outside User Water 
and Sanitary Sewer Services Agreements, for Tri-State Generation and Transmission, Lot 4, Block 
10, North Range Business Park, 3 rd Filing, situated in the NE¼ SE¼ of Section 4, Township 13, 
North, Range 67 West, of the 6th P.M., Laramie County – referred to Finance Committee.    
 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Sweetgrass, 5th Filing, a subdivision of a portion of the N ½ of Section 
16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located south 
of E. College Drive, east of Sweetgrass Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee.  
 
[CA] Minimum Revenue Guaranteed Payment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, and Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team (CRAFT), for Skywest Airlines to 
provide scheduled flight services between Cheyenne, Wyoming and Denver, Colorado  (General 
Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $148,350.50) (#7253) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO) and Ayres Associates for the Converse Avenue Reconstruction Plan 
(MPO Federal Funds) .  Motion (per Consent Agen da) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$120,175.00) (#7254) 
 
Memorandum of Understanding between EQ Capital , LLC, and the City of Cheyenne to 
build a technology ecosystem in Wyoming focused on investing in tech startups.  Brandon Ames, 
Chief Economic Development Officer, provided details of the Memorandum of Understanding  
(MOU).  Mr. Ames advised the city bares no fi nancial responsibility relating to the MOU , that 
Cheyenne was chosen due to the proximity to Denver, CO. and the purpose is to help startup 
companies in Cheyenne.  He reported the intent is to partner with the city to create business 
opportunities noting EQ Capital, LLC was instrumental in the development of companies such as 
Door Dash and Air BNB.  Governing body members requested consideration to postpone and to 
have a City Council work session to learn more about the opportunity and long-range expectations 
of the MOU.   Mr. Ames advised the owners of EQ Capital, LLC are currently in route to Cheyenne 
and he would speak with  them regarding meeting with members of the g overning body.    
Discussion included the desire to learn more regarding the agreement and the exciting possibilities 
   
for Cheyenne.     Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
White.  Mr. Laybourn moved to postpone to November 23, 2020, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion 
to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.                 
 
[CA] Development and Maintenance Agreement between Cheyenne -Laramie County 
Corporation for Economic Development, the City of Cheyenne, and the Cheyenne Business Park 
Owners Association for the Cheyenne Business Parkway Corridor Plan – referred to Public 
Services Committee.  
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 2 to Contract # 7195 between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for cost impacts associated with changes in site conditions, Force Account increases, 
and changes to retainage on the Prairie Avenue and Frontier Mall Drive Intersection Project (2019-
2022 1% Sales Ta x).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$238,839.00). (#7195) 
  
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7221  between the City of Cheyenne and 
Containment Systems for additional services to complete the Expansion of Landfill Permanent 
Litter Fence Project.  (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Contract #5932 between the City of Cheyenne and Solid Waste 
Professionals of Wyoming, for Happy Jack Landfill Expansion to extend the contract to March 31, 
2022.  (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Consideration of Bid #E -7-21 for Ice Control Product for the City of Cheyenne Street & 
Alley Division (2015-2018 & 2019-2022 1% Sales Tax). Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, 
reported that although there are alternative products such as sand, the Ice Slicer product eliminates 
broken windshields and the need to sweep streets follow ing snow events.  Upon inquiry, Ms. 
Nemecek advised the city has used this product for approximately 15 years.  Concerns were voiced 
regarding the corrosion ice treatments cause on city streets and vehicles.  Mr. Luna moved to 
accept the bid from Desert Mountain Corp., Riverton, in an amount not to exceed $230,000.00, 
seconded by Mr. White.   Motion to accept the bid carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Case, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Luna voting “no”.      
   
[CA] Consideration of Bid # S-3-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the East 12 th Street and Meadow Drive Mill and Overlay project (2015 -2018 & 
2019-2022 1% Sales Tax). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not 
to exceed $1,345,682.83). (#7255) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-6-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Dan Hart 
Patrol Service, LLC, for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1 and 2 and Cell 3 Excavation 
Earthworks (Earthworks Base Bid) Project (Solid Waste Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $4,582,929.28). (#7256) 
 
 
   
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-6-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Clean Air 
and Water Systems, LLC, for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1 and 2 and Cell 3 Excavation 
Earthworks (Geosynthetics Installation Base Bid) project (Solid Waste Fund) . Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from in an amount not to exceed $177,147.50).  (#7257) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-6-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Northwest 
Linings & Geotextile Products, Inc., for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1 and 2 and Cell 
3 Excavation Earthworks (Geosynthetics Procurement Base Bid) project (Solid Waste Fund) . 
Motion (per Cons ent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $405,483.00). 
(#7258) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-10-21 for furnishing monitors, 2-in-1 computers and accessories 
for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department (Coronavirus Emergency Sup plemental 
Funding, Bureau of Justice Assistance (CESF)).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted 
bid from Sanity Solutions, Denver, CO, in an amount not to exceed $72,144.00).  
 
 Consideration of Bid # S-2-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Casper 
Electric, Inc., for the 24th / 25th / Carey / Pioneer Traffic Signal Upgrade Project.  (2015-2018 1% 
Sales Tax).  Kris Jones, City Clerk, advised this item was inadvertently left off of Consent Agenda.  
This item was referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S-8-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group 
Inc. d/b/a Knife River, for the 2020 Miscellaneous Concrete Project.  (2015-2018 & 2019-2022 
1% Sales Tax).  Kris Jones, City Clerk, advised that this item was inadvertently left off of Consent 
Agenda.  This item was referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Appointments of Kaylee Ashley, David Barker, Ty Bronder, Garrison Cook, Ashen Doty, 
Makiya Green, Neveah Green, Emily Lucero, Zoey Lundin and Elizabeth Stump to the 2020-2021 
Mayor’s Youth Council.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing  body with the exception of Mayor Orr  (Mayoral 
appointments).   
 
 Presentation of the Annual DDA Budget Report.  Amber Ash, DDA Director, presented a 
year to date comprehensive report on the DDA annual budget.  Ms. Ash provided details relating 
to multiple  new programs that have been successful in attracting consumers to  downtown 
businesses.    
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:51 p.m.  
 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
   
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  November 18, 2020 
   
 