MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-11-23 | CLIP_ID: 774 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 774

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
November 23, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:06 p.m. via electronic conference meeting .  Attending electronic conference meeting  were: 
MAYOR - Marian Orr, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete 
Laybourn, Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White. Absent: Scott Roybal.  Also 
attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. )  Upon request by Mr . White, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Cook and Mr. Luna, agenda item #17(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. 
Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Rinne and Mr. White, 
agenda item  #19(b) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Luna moved to approve  
remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 9, 2020.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 10.44, Weight Limits, of Title 10, 
Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. (Postponed from 
November 9, 2020). Chief Brian Kozak, Police Department, expressed appreciation to all parties 
involved with their assistance on the ordinance and reported the amendment has been mutually 
agreed upon by city  staff and the trucking industr y.  Tom Cobb,  City Engineer, advised the 
ordinance was a collaborative effort and voiced appreciation to Chief Kozak for working with the 
trucking industry.  Mayor Orr expressed appreciation to members of city staff and other entities 
for their work.  Sheila Foertsch, Wyoming Trucking Association, thanked all parties involved for 
the additional work and time spent on the ordinance.  Ms. Foertsch advised she is comfortable with 
the amendment and believes it’s a good product  of compromise by all parties.  Mayor Orr 
referenced comments made via the chat function in Zoom in support of the ordinance.  Rick Fierro, 
Ram Trucking, thanked Mr. Cobb and Chief Kozak,  noting a lot of time was  spent working to 
refine the ordinance and advised the finished product will be conducive for everyone.   Reporting 
for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
Luna.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated November 23, 2020, seconded by Mr. Cook.  
Dr. Rinne explained the amendment is the final product of all of the meetings and discussion that 
has taken place between Chief Kozak and  the trucking industry.  Upon inquiry, Joe Chenchar, 
Assistant City Attorney, advised Sc hedules H & I were submitted  and approved by him earlier 
today.  Upon inquiry, Kris Jones, City Clerk, explained the schedules are part of the ordinance and 
   
included in the substitute and do not require a separate motion to approve.  Mr. Chenchar explained 
the schedules are incorporated by reference in the ordinance text.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing bod y present.  Concerns were voic ed regarding timing of 
implementing the ordinance amendment and that due to the Covid-19 Pandemic, small businesses 
are struggling who participate in the chain of services , noting it could be devastating to them.  
Comments were made commending the work product and collaboration between city staff and 
industry partners and additional information was provided on previous comments made in support 
of the ordinance by members of city staff and the trucking industry.  Additional comments were 
made related to the ordinance amendment not being affected by the Covid-19 Pandemic and that 
the ordinance requires truckers to abide by state and federal laws when within city limits and that 
any time is a good time to implement.  Discussion included opposition to adding new restricted 
routes within the city that didn’t exist before.  It was further noted that the trucking industry spoke 
in favor of the ordinance amendments.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with exception of Mr. Case and Mr. Shanor voting “no”.        
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 2.84.070, Board of Adjustment, of 
Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, 
of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to correct cross references to the Board 
of Adjustment.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 15.52.060(B), Notification of 
Issuance or Denial -Appeal, and Section 15.52.100 , Variances, of Chapter 15.52, Solar Access 
Permit System, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to correct cross references to the Board of Adjustment.  Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Establishing a Planned Unit Development (PUD) District 
for property generally located northwest of the intersection of North Gate Avenue and Yellowstone 
Road.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Luna.  Upon inquiry, 
Charles Bloom, Planning and Development Director, advised there was discussion by the Planning 
Commission related to concern with a sunken garden within the development that may not be ADA 
compatible.  C asey Palma, Stile Surveying Services, agent for owner, reported a sunken garden 
was designed that will also serve as a detention pond and the owner opted for a walkway to look 
down on the area.  Mr. Palma advised they have and are still looking for possibilities to provide 
an ADA pathway over the top.  He further noted the street  has over a 5% grade and that a letter 
has been submitted by the project architect related to ADA accessibility, noting ADA compliance 
is not required because it is private and not accessible by the general public.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION - Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the 
amount of $39,348.39 for City of Cheyenne accounts and $23,290.93 for Board of Public Utilities 
sanitation accounts pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16 -4-502.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6102) 
   
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving water and sanitary sewer services, by Outside User Water 
and Sanitary Sewer Services Agreements, for Tri-State Generation and Transmission, Lot 4, Block 
10, North Range Business Park, 3 rd Filing, situated in the NE¼ SE¼ of Section 4,  Township 13, 
North, Range 67 West, of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6103) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – To rededicate unknown funds and unused donations from various 
accounts within the City of Cheyenne’s Agency Fund – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor 
– Mr. Luna)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Repealing a portion of Resolution No. 5951 which pertains to the 
dedication of General Fund Reserves to design and build a second level on the Cheyenne 
Municipal Court Building – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying CONNECT 2045:  Update to the Master Transportation and 
Future Land Use Plan of PlanCheyenne for the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Urban Area – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for The 
Enclave at Northgate, a replat of a portion of Lots 6 and 7, all of Lot 8, and the east half of Lots 9 
thru 12, Block 19, North Cheyen ne 2 nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming 
(located northwest of the intersection of North Gate Avenue and Yellowstone Road) – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Sweetgrass, 5th Filing, a subdivision of a portion of the N ½ of Section 
16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located south 
of E. College Drive, east of Sweetgrass Drive) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(acknowledged Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve). 
 
Memorandum of Understanding between EQ Capital , LLC, and the City of Cheyenne to 
build a technology ecosystem in Wyoming focused on investing in tech startups. (Postponed from 
November 9, 2020).   Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. White explained 
city staff worked to come up with an amendment to address concerns.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Jones 
confirmed that Mr. Laybourn cast an affirmative vote at the November 16 th Finance Committee 
meeting, therefore, the agenda item met Consent Agenda criteria.  Mr. White moved to amend by 
substitute dated November 20, 2020, seconded by Mr . Luna.  Appreciation was voiced for the 
amendment and work by Brendan Ames, Chief Economic Development Officer, Attorney’s office 
and EQ Capital, noting the amendment removes previous concerns and provides for mutual official 
recognition that the parties we will work together on the project.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body  present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting 
“no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present 
with exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. (#7259)   
 
 
   
[CA] Development and Maintenance Agreement between Cheyenne-Laramie County 
Corporation for Economic Development, the City of Cheyenne, and the Cheyenne Business Park 
Owners Association for the Cheyenne Business Parkway Corridor Plan .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7260) 
 
[CA] Grant agreement between Memorial Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional 
Medical Center and the City of Cheyenne Police Department for Law Enforcement Assisted 
Diversion (LEAD) Program officer overtime and client support (CRMC LEAD Grant) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7221  between the City of Cheyenne and 
Containment Systems for additional services to complete the Expansion of Landfill Permanent 
Litter Fence Project (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not 
to exceed $17,435.00). (#7221) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Contract #5932 between the City of Cheyenne and Solid Waste 
Professionals of Wyoming, for Happy Jack Landfill Expansion to extend the contract to March 31, 
2022 (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#5932) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 7216 between Memorial Hospital of Laramie 
County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional Medical Center and the City of Cheyenne Police Department for 
Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) Program (CRMC LEAD Grant) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7117 between the City of Cheyenne and Western 
Research and Development, Ltd. for additional  design services for the 2020 Signal Upgrade 
Design Services Contract (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid # S-2-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Casper 
Electric, Inc., for the 24 th / 25th / Carey / Pioneer Traffic Signal Upgrade Project (2015-2018 1% 
Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed 
$677,384.84). (#7261) 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S-8-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group 
Inc. d/b/a Knife River, for the 2020 Miscellaneous Concrete Project (2015-2018 & 2019-2022 1% 
Sales Tax).  Mr. Luna moved to accept the bid in an amount not to exceed $443,436.48, seconded 
by Mr. White . Upon inquiry, Tom Cobb, City Engineer, provided information on locations of 
concrete work to be completed through th e bid.  Mr. Cobb reported this phase of the project will 
exhaust approximately half of available project funding and that the other half wi ll be expended 
through a future bid for remaining locations planned to be improved.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#7262) 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
   
 Upon inquiry by Mayor Orr, Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, provided information on the 
September 2020 sales tax collection explaining  she received an email from  the Department of 
Revenue that additional revenue was from the Roundhouse Windmill Project in an approximate 
amount of $2 million dollars.  She further reported that current 6th Penny Sales Tax collection is 
predicted to be complete by July of 2021, however it could be sooner if sales tax income remains 
strong.  Mayor Orr urged everyone to get together in January to start discussions on  future 6th 
Penny Sales Tax projects  and acknowledged that while it seems like a long way away , a lot of 
planning remains to be done.  No further comments were made related to the Revenue Report as 
presented. 
 
 Announcement of a Public Hearing was made to be held December 14, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. 
via electr onic conference meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions 
required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for land located southeast of the intersection of 
Powderhouse Road and Carlson Street.   
  
  There bein g no fur ther business to co me before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:40 p.m.  
 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 2, 2020 
   
 