MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-12-14 | CLIP_ID: 777 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 777

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 14, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:06 p.m. via electronic conference meeting .  Attending electronic conference meeting  were: 
MAYOR - Marian Orr, C OUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case,  Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, 
Mike Luna, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.  Absent: Bryan Cook.  
Also attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk. [Clerk’s note: the pledge of allegiance was not recited due 
to the absence of a flag]   
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. )  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 23, 2020.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Orr opened a public hearing  to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for land located southeast of the 
intersection of Powderhouse Road and Carlson Street.  Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development 
Department, advised the annex ation request was submitted by the landowner,  provided 
information on the property  and reviewed requirements of and compliance with annexation 
conditions contained in state statutes.   There being no further comments or input and purpose of 
the hearing having been met, Mayor Orr closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapter 10.44, Weight Limits, of Title 10, 
Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Reporting for 
Public Services Committee, Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by 
Mr. Roybal. Upon inquiry related to if scales have been purchased,  Chief Brian Kozak, Police 
Department, explained the Police Department has some scales that Highway Patrol loaned them a 
few years ago that they may be able to keep.  Chief Kozak advised that if they are unable to keep 
the scales, the city would purchase scales with drug forfeiture funding.  Support was expressed to 
Chief Kozak, the trucking industry and City employees for their work involved with the ordinance.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with exception of Mr. 
Case, Mr. Luna and Mr. Shanor voting “no”. (#4333) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 2.84.070, Board of Adjustment, of 
Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, 
of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to correct cross references to the Board 
   
of Adjustment.  Charles Bloom, Director of Planning and Development, advised the  ordinance 
corrects cross references to the Board of Adjustment in Title 17.  Mr. Case moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr . Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present. (#4334) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 15.52.060(B), Notification of 
Issuance or Denial -Appeal, and Section 15.52.100, Variances, of Chapter 15.52, Solar Access 
Permit System, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to correct cross references to the Board of Adjustment . Charles Bloom , 
Director of Planning and Development, advised the ordinance corrects cross references to Title 17 
in Title 15.  Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr . Roybal.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4335) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Establishing a Planned Unit Development (PUD) District 
for property generally located northwest of the intersection of North Gate Avenue and Yellowstone 
Road.  Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development Department, advised  the zone change request to 
PUD would allow for a  duplex development.  Mr. Case moved to approve on third and final  
reading, seconded by Mr . Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing 
body present. (#4336) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located southeast of the intersection of Powderhouse Road and East Carlson Street – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of th e City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential 
to P Public District for a tract of land generally located southeast of the intersection of 
Powderhouse Road and East Carlson Street – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – 
Mr. Case) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
define, establish permissibility, and create specific use standards for the use ‘Mini Storage’ – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 2.04.020, Mayor -Election-Term of 
Office, of Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the 
Municipal Code of the city of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to P ublic Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne)  
 
 RESOLUTION – To rededicate unknown funds and unused donations from various 
accounts within the City of Cheyenne’s Agency Fund .  Reporting for Finance Committee , Mr. 
Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Mr. Luna moved to amend by substitute dated 
12/8/2020 which includes the amendment made at the 12/ 7/2020 Finance Committee meeting 
which removes the line item title “County Pockets/Urban Planning Office” in an amount of 
$23,278.08 to be rededicated to the “Loan Annexation Fund”, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Support 
   
was expressed for the substitute  as the funds will go towards development of county pockets.   
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main motion 
as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#6104)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Repealing a portion of Resolution No. 5951 which pertains to the 
dedication of General Fund Reserves to design and build a second level on the Cheyenne 
Municipal Court Building.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6105) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Certifying CONNECT 2045:  Update to the Master Transportation and 
Future Land Use Plan of PlanCheyenne for the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Ur ban Area.  
Tom Mason, Director of MPO, advised the resolution is presenting the update known as Connect 
2045 and explained the plan has been in development for 1.5 years between city, county, WYDOT 
and other steering committee members.  He noted the County Commissioner’s have adopted the 
plan and the next step is city approval and MPO Policy Committee for final adoption and approval 
of the plan.  Mr. Mason provided information on the transportation plan noting it is updated every 
5 years and plan adoption allows federally funded transportation project s to move forward.  Mr. 
Mason advised recently a small list of technical corrections w as provided to be made to the final 
document.  Mayor Orr expressed appreciation to Allison Fluitt with Kimley Horn for her work on 
the project.  Mr. Case moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present. (#6106) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for The 
Enclave at Northgate, a replat of a portion of Lots 6 and 7, all of Lot 8, and the east half of Lots 9 
thru 12, Block 19, North Cheyenne 2 nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyo ming 
(located northwest of the intersection of North Gate Avenue and Yellowstone Road).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6107) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds – referred 
to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Luna) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §16 -4-112 & §16 -4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Luna) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Grant to replace playground safety surfacing (revenue to the city) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Capital 
Heights Addition, Third Filing, a replat of all of Lots 3 and 4, Block 1018, Capital Heights 
Addition, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Dillon Avenue 
north of Foyer Avenue, currently addressed as 3810 Dillon Avenue) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case) 
 
   
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving a Special Use Permit for oil and gas support services for Lot 
1, Block 1, Plains Industrial Park, 2 nd Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to P ublic 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Case)   
 
 [CA] Grant agreement between Memorial Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional 
Medical Center and the City of Cheyenne Police Department for Law Enforcement Assisted 
Diversion (LEAD) Program officer overtime and client support (CRMC LEAD Grant).  Moti on 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7265) 
 
[CA] Grant award agreement with the State of Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a grant 
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), FEMA, Grant Programs Directorate, 
SHSP Grant Fiscal Year 2020 in the amount of $115,000.00, for the Cheyenne Regional Response 
Team #7 (DHS Grant Code: EMW-2020-SS-00062) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness, Alcohol Receiving Center, to 
provide alcohol and drug detoxication services to individuals (General Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor to provide a safe and secure 
environment to families who have been affected by abuse (General Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 [CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide 
supportive senior services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 [CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Dep artment and 
Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center 
(Replaces Contract No. 7165 approved 4/27/2020) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Larami e County for the 
housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services Center located at the Archer 
Complex (Replaces Contract No. 7166 approved 4/27/2020) – referred to Finance Committee.          
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract  #7216 between Memorial Hospital of Laramie 
County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional Medical Center and the City of Cheyenne Police Department for 
Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) Program (CRMC LEAD Grant) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#7216) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7117 between the City of Cheyenne and Western 
Research and Development, Ltd . for additional design services for the 2020 Signal Upgrade 
Design Services Contract (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#7117) 
 
 
   
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7 181 between the City of Cheyenne and Waste 
Management of Colorado, Inc., Denver CO, for Waste Management Recycling Services to extend 
the term of the agreement to December 31, 2021 (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 7241between the City of Cheyenne and Mid-
America Pool Renovation, Inc., for the Cheyenne Aquatic Center Main Pool Shell Resurfacing 
Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax Overage Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract # 7207 between the City of Cheyenne and  Front 
Range Roofing Systems, LLC, for Fleet Maintenance Facility and Parks Maintenance Facility 
Roof Replacements (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-16-21 for furnishing three (3) new greens mowers, for the City of 
Cheyenne, Golf Division (Golf Improvement Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Appointments of Jeffrey Merton O’Holleran to the Laramie County Juvenile Services Joint 
Powers Board; Kat Yates to the Community Action Laramie County Board of Directors and 
Stephanie McMackin and Kristin Lee to the Cheyenne Housing Authority Board.  Mr. Luna moved 
to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
 Reappointments of Kristina Richardson and Jared Dixon to the Mayor’s Council for People 
with Disabilities Board; Dennis Humphrey, Jason Stephen, Jason Powell  and Paul Pomeroy to the 
Contractor Licensing Board; Patrick Green and Timothy E. Wilson to the Personnel Commission; 
Tucker Fagan and James W. Hearne to the City/County Frontier Park Improvements Joint Powers 
Board; Russell Pollard to the Police Civil Service Commission; Mark C. Hardee to the Fire Civil 
Service Commission; David S. Benner, Charles C. Young II and Max B. Carre’ to the Historic 
Preservation Board; Thomas Smith to the Housing & Community Development Advisory Council; 
William Sean Casey and Gabriel Herrera to the Building Code Board of Appeals; Anthony R. 
Laird to the Board of Adjustment and Philip Griggs, Brian Tyrrell and Ted C. Gertsch to the 
Planning Commission. Mr. Luna moved to appro ve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.   Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting 
“no” and Mayor Orr who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:34 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 19, 2020 
   
 