MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2020-12-28 | CLIP_ID: 779 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 779

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 28, 2020 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:06 p.m. via electronic conference meeting .  Attending electronic conference meeting  were: 
MAYOR - Marian Orr, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Rocky Case, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Pete 
Laybourn, Mike Luna,  Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Dicky Shanor and Jeff White.   Also 
attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk. The Pledge of Allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. )  Upon request by Dr. R inne, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Cook and Mr. Roybal, agenda item #13 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Mr. Luna moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 14, 2020.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located southeast of the intersection of Powderhouse Road and East Carlson Street .  Charles 
Bloom, Planning and Development Director, advised the annexation request is from Laramie 
County School District #1 for the purpose of constructing a new elementary school for grades 5-6 
and explained there is an affiliated item for a zone change request  and final plat on the agenda.    
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Case moved to approve on second reading,  
seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential 
to P Public District for a tract of land generally located southeast of the intersection of 
Powderhouse Road and East Carlson Street.  Charles Bloom, Planning and Development Director, 
advised the zone change request is related to the previous annexation request from Laramie County 
School District #1 for the purpose of constructing a new elementary school for grades 5-6.  Mr. 
Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Luna.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
define, establish permissibility, and create specific use standards for the use ‘Mini Storage’.  Mark 
Christensen, Planning and Development  Department, explained the amendment stems from a 
specific request and updates storage-personal and storage-park and combines them as a cohesive 
   
definition.  Mr. Christensen advised that if a storage unit park is located in certain zoned areas, 
they must meet  certain criteria and noted that staff recommends approval.   Mr. Case moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 2.04.020, Mayor -Election-Term of 
Office, of Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the 
Municipal Code of the city of Ch eyenne, Wyoming .  Dr. Rinne explained the ordinance 
amendment changes the Mayor’s office employees from regular employees to “at will” so future 
mayors can choose their own staff members.   Dr. Rinne clarified this change does not include the 
current staff members in the mayor’s office  and that the change s is intended for the future.  Mr. 
Case moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds . Brenda 
Moreaux, Deputy City Treasurer, provided information on the resolution stating statutes require 
municipalities designate local banks  as depositories for municipal funds.  She explained staff 
supports approval of a proposed substitute resolution which adds Wells Fargo Bank to the listing.  
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Luna moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  White.  Mr. Luna 
moved to amend by substitute dated December 16, 2020, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Ms. Moreaux 
advised all banks were given a deadline  to respond and Wells Fargo had a late response so the 
amendment now includes that bank.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. (#6108) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §16 -4-112 & §16 -4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6109) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Grant to replace playground safety surfacing (revenue to the city).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6110) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Capital 
Heights Addition, Third Filing, a replat of all of Lots 3 and 4, Block 1018, Capital Heights 
Addition, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of and adjacent to Dillon Avenue 
north of Foyer Avenue, currently addressed as 3810 Dillon Avenue).  Connor White, Planning and 
Development Department, provided information on the property including location and noted the 
final plat creates 4 lots for development of 4 townhomes .  Mr. White reported both the Planning 
Commission and city staff recommend approval.  Mr. Case moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
White.  Comment was made in opposition of the resolution and how the proposal isn’t a good fit 
for an established neighborhood as this type of development could impact property value.  Further 
comments were made acknowledging that city staff is making recommendations in compliance 
with current city code regulations.  It was further noted that the proposed final plat meets existing 
city code regulations.   Upon inquiry, Mr. White confirmed the replat consists of dividing 2 lots 
   
into 4 individual lots and the town houses will be approximately 20 ft. wide.   Comments were 
made relating to other similar lots within existing neighborhoods that have not had any negative 
impact on value or esthetics.  Upon inquiry, members of Planning and Development staff and Ward 
I City Council members confirmed they have not received any negative communication or 
comments from area residents regarding the proposed development.  Additional comments in 
support of the proposed infill project were voiced.  Upon inquiry, Charles Bloom, Planning and 
Development Director, provided information on the notification process which is the responsibility 
of the contractor to provide to area residents.  Mr. Bloom advised the required notice shall be 
provided and sign age posted prior to the first P lanning Commission meeting.   Motion carried.   
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”. 
(#6111) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving a Special Use Permit for oil and gas support services for Lot 
1, Block 1, Plains Industrial Park, 2 nd Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming .  Charles Bloom, 
Planning and Development Director, advised the city received a request to authorize a drilling 
operation to go along with oil extraction that was approved by the Board of Adjustment in 
December of 2019.  Mr. Bloom explained that Section 5.8.7 of the Unifie d Development Code 
allows the Governing Body to temporarily defer all or a portion of the development requirements 
in City Code and noted that the development will be temporary.  Mr. Bloom reported the proposed 
substitute includes the following deferral co ntributions: Deposits in the City’s Agency Fund for 
$29,389.59 in the Greenway Account, $5,962.50 in the Forestry account and $27,610.00 in the 
Park Enhancement Account which is park in lieu fees that are required at time of subdivision.  He 
further advised that staff recommends approval and that the exhibit referenced in the resolution is 
the last item in the pdf packet.  Mr. Case moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Mr. Case 
moved to amend by substitute dated December 17, 2020, seconded by Mr . Roybal.  Motion to 
amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6112) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Coyote 
Ridge, a plat of a portion of the northwest quarter of Section 20, Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of Powderhouse Road and East Carlson Street) – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Rocky Case) 
 
[CA] Grant award agreement with the State of Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a grant 
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), FEMA, Grant Programs Directorate, 
SHSP Grant Fiscal Year 2020 in the amount of $115,000.00, for the Cheyenne Regional Response 
Team #7 (DHS Grant Code: EMW -2020-SS-00062).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#7268) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Peak Wellness, Alcohol Receiving Ce nter, to 
provide alcohol and drug detoxication services to individuals (General Fund ).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $115,000.00). (#7269) 
 
   
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor to provide a safe and secure 
environment to families who have been affected by abuse (General Fund) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $17,500.00). (#7270) 
 
 [CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide 
supportive senior services (General Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $25,000.00). (#7271) 
 
 [CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and 
Laramie County, Wyoming, for housing City pr isoners at the Laramie County Detention Center 
(Replaces Contract No. 7165 approved 4/27/2020).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7165) 
 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for the 
housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services Center located at the Archer 
Complex (Replaces Contract No. 7166 approved 4/27/2020) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7166)         
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7 181 between the City of Cheyenne and Waste 
Management of Colorado, Inc., Denver CO, for Waste Management Recycling Services to extend 
the term of the agreement to December 31, 2021 (Solid Waste Fund) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7181) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 7241 between the City of Cheyenne and Mid-
America Pool Renovation, Inc., for the Cheyenne Aquatic Center Main Pool Shell Resurfacing 
Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax Overage Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $43,850.00). (#7241) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract # 7207 between the City of Cheyenne and  Front 
Range Roofing Systems, LLC, for Fleet Maintenance Facility and Parks Maintenance Facility 
Roof Replacements (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $5,660.00). (#7207) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #6927 between Wyoming Homeland Security and 
the City of Cheyenne extending the term of the grant through August 31, 2021 (DHS Grand Code:  
EMW-2018-SS-00065) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-16-21 for furnishing three (3) new greens mowers, for the City of 
Cheyenne, Golf Division (Golf Improvement Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from L.L. Johnson Distributing Company, Denver, CO, in an amount not to exceed 
$113,030.10). 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
   
 Appointments of Gus Lopez to the Cheyenne -Laramie County Board of Health; Wendy 
Soto and Erin LeBlanc to the Housing and Communit y Development Advisory Council; Dustin 
Brown, Richard Maxted, and Ben Moritz to the Board of Adjustment, and Michael Vigil to the 
Building Code Board of Appeals.  Mr. Luna moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Shanor.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Orr who 
did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
 Announcement was made of  the Sine Die and First Regular Meetings of the Governing 
Body will be held Monday, January 4, 2021 beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Cheyenne Civic Center, 
510 West 20th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming and via electronic conference meeting. 
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Sine Die and First Regular Meetings of the 
Governing Body on Monday, January 4, 20 21, regularly scheduled Cit y Council Committee 
meetings will instead be held as follows: Finance Committee will meet at Noon on  Tuesday, 
January 5, 2021 via electronic conference meeting  and Public Services Committee will meet at 
Noon on Wednesday, January 6, 2021 via electronic conference meeting.  Additionally, all Finance 
Committee meetings for 2021 will be held at Noon instead of 11:00 a.m. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held January 11, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. via 
electronic conference meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required 
by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for land located southeast of the intersection of High Plains 
Road and South Greeley Highway. 
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:35 p.m.  
 
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 6, 2021 
   
 