MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2021-01-11 | CLIP_ID: 783 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 783

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 11, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:0 0 p.m. at the Cheyenne Civic Center and via electronic conference meeting .  Attending 
electronic conference meeting  were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. 
Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, 
Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White.  Also attending: Kris Jones, City Clerk. The pledge of 
allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. )  Upon request by  Mr. Cook , and pursuant to support 
received by Mr . Johnson and Mr. Roybal, agenda item # 23(a) was removed from the Consent 
Agenda.  Mr. Segrave moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 28, 2020.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from the Sine Die Session  of the Governing Body on January 4, 2021.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from First Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 4, 2021.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for land located southeast of the 
intersection of High Plains Road and South Greeley Highway.  Charles Bloom, Director of 
Planning and Development, explained t hey had received a petition to annex the land , provided 
information on the property  and reviewed requirements of and compliance with annexation 
conditions contained in state statutes.  Comment was made related to taking precautions to avoid 
any potential for future flooding in the area of land to be annexed.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Bloom 
provided information on public safety services that would be utilized for the annexation area. There 
being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins 
closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located southeast of the intersection of Powderhouse Road and East Carlson Street.  Reporting for 
Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by 
   
Mr. White. Concern was expressed related to traffic in the area of Carlson and Powderhouse and 
along the east side access to Converse Ave.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4337) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential 
to P Public District for a tract of land generally located southeast of the intersection of 
Powderhouse Road and East Carlson Street .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. (#4338) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
define, establish permissibility, and create specific use standards for the use ‘Mini Storage’ .  Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4339) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 2.04.020, Mayor -Election-Term of 
Office, of Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the 
Municipal Code of the city of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4340) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of and adjacent to South Greeley Highway between High Plains Road and Terry Ranch 
Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential 
to AG Agricultural and HI Heavy Industrial for land located east of and adjacent to South Greeley 
Highway between High Plains Road and Terry Ranch Road – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI (Light Industrial) to MR (Medium -Density 
Residential) for property generally located northeast of the intersection of Pebrican Ave nue and 
East 2nd Street – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification from MR (Medium -Density Residential) to CB 
(Community Business) for property generally located northeast of the intersection of Carbon 
Avenue and East 13th Street – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Coyote 
Ridge, a plat of a portion of the northwest quarter of Section 20, Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
   
Wyoming (located at the southeast corner of Powderhouse Road and East Carlson Street).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6117) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Bison 
Business Park, a plat of portions of  Sections 28, 29, and 32, Township 13 North, Range 66 West 
of the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne,  Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to 
South Greeley Highway between High Plains Road and Terry Ranch Road) – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sig n a final plat for 
Sweetgrass, 5th Filing, a subdivision of a portion of the N½ of Section 16, Township 13 North, 
Range 66 West of the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of 
East College Drive and adjacent to Sweetgrass Drive  -- referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting an amendment to the Future Land Use Map in PlanCheyenne, 
amending the land use category for property generally located east of South Greeley Highway at 
Terry Ranch Road from Agricultural and Mixed-Use Employment to Industrial and amending the 
Urban Service Boundary and Natural and Cultural Resources Area -- referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA]  Preliminary Plat for Campstool Addition, 5 th Filing, generally located north of Venture 
Drive/Interstate 80 Service Road east of Industry Drive – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Letter of Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the United 
States Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, for locating and eradicating illicit 
cannabis, and investigating and prosecuting those cases – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, C heyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization, and West Edge Collective LLC, for FY 2021 MPO Public Engagement 
and Web Support Services (MPO Federal funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and  GLM Design Group 
for the submission of two Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) Capability - 
and Capacity- Building Funding grant applications to FEMA for the City of Cheyenne (2019-2022 
1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification #2 to Contract # 6927 between Wyoming Homeland Security and 
the City of Cheyenne extending the term of the grant through August 31, 2021 (DHS Grand Code:  
EMW-2018-SS-00065).  Byron Mathews, Cheyenne Fire  and Rescue Division Chief, provided 
information on the modification stating it can’t be submitted due to the original grant application 
not being filed timely .  Mr. Mathews advised staff requests denial of the proposed Contract 
Modification and that staff will resubmit to meet grant funding compliance requirements.  Upon 
inquiry, Mr. Mathews advised the remaining grant fund balance is $5,000.00.  Upon inquiry, City 
Clerk Kris Jones, explained that as the agenda item received a recommendation for approval from 
   
the Finance Committee, the Chair should advise the Governing Body of that motion.  Ms. Jones 
further advised that the motion to approve could either die by lack of a second or be voted down 
as recommended by staff.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion failed 
with all members of the governing body voting “no” with the exception of Mr. Segrave voting 
“yes”. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 7206 between the City of Cheyenne and Inman 
Roofing, Inc., to replace wood nailer on  Cheyenne Aquatic Center roof (General Fund -CIP 
Account) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-9-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and 4 Quarters 
Excavation & Development for the East Cheyenne Community Park -Parking Lot and Trailhead 
Construction Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King Jr. Day Holiday on Monday, 
January 18, 2021, Finance Committee will meet at Noon on  Tuesday, January 19, 2021 via 
electronic conference meeting and Public Services Committee will meet at Noon  on Wednesday, 
January 20, 2021 via electronic conference meeting.   
 
 Under other business:  
  
 Mr. Johnson requested information related to the abandoned vehicle program in terms of 
which officer he should work with and obtaining the vehicle auction schedule. He also advised he 
had received complaints related to traffic enforcement in the downtown area, specifically CSO 
vehicles backing up traffic when tending to parking violations. Acting Police Chief Nathan Buseck 
provided information on the county run tow lot noting the number of vehicles can be fluid as the 
county also utilizes the lot and advised the auction schedule will be provided.  He explained there 
is a group email list for CSO’s that should be utilized.  Acting Chief Buseck advised he will meet 
with the Parking Manager about the downtown traffic enforcement concerns.    
 
 Mr. Johnson commented on a concern he had received from a constituent related to trash 
removal and street sweeping services occurring on the same day and requested an updat e on the 
Taft & Continental school zone traffic study that was done a few years ago.  Vicki Nemecek, 
Director of Public Works, explained street sweeping doesn’t typically occur on trash days, but if a 
request or work order is received, both services may occur. Ms. Nemecek advised she would 
discuss the school zone traffic study with the Engineering Department. 
 
 Mr. Johnson  commented on city staff procedures related to C OVID-19 cases.  Mayor 
Collins advised he has been in contact with the Laramie County Environmental Health Department 
and department directors and information will be forthcoming. 
 
 
   
 Dr. Aldrich advised Ward 3 council members are hosting a “Coffee with Council” event at 
Dazbog Coffee on Pershing on January 16, 2021. 
 
 Mr. Laybour n complemented everyon e who has been involved with m oving council 
meetings to the Civic Center .  He further expressed appreciation to  former Police Chief  Brian 
Kozak and former Fire Chief Greg Hoggatt, recognizing them for their outstanding service to the 
city. 
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:33 p.m.  
 
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 16, 2021 
   
 