MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2021-01-25 | CLIP_ID: 784 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 784

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 25, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at the Cheyenne Civic Center and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited.  [Clerk’s note:  
Mr. Esquibel attended the meeting via electronically] 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mayor Collins noted agenda item #17(a) was inadvertently 
placed on the consent agenda. Upon request by Mr. Johnson, and pursuant to support received by 
Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Cook, agenda item # 17(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. 
Segrave moved to approve  remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Votin g 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 11, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of and adjacent to South Greeley Highway between High Plains Road and Terry Ranch 
Road.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential 
to AG Agricultural and HI Heavy Industrial for land located east of and adjacent to South Greeley 
Highway between High Plains Road and Terry Ranch Road.  Eric Crosby inquired on the industrial 
use planned for the land.  Brad Emmons , AVI PC, agent f or the applicant, advised the proposed 
zone will allow the land to be used for a data center project, noting it is not overall industrial in 
nature.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI (Light Industrial) to MR (Medium -Density 
Residential) for property generally located northeast of the intersection of Pebrican Avenue and 
East 2 nd Street.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. 
Segrave declared a conflict of interest due to a business relationship  and did not participate in  
   
discussion or voting.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Mr. Segrave who didn’t vote.  
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification from MR (Medium -Density Residential) to CB 
(Community Business) for property generally located northeast of the intersection of Carbon 
Avenue and East 13 th Street.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  
Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Bison 
Business Park, a plat of portions of Sections 28, 29, and 32, Township 13 North, Range 66 West 
of the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to 
South Greeley Highway between High Plains Road and Terry Ranch Road).  Dr. Rinne moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to February 8, 2021, seconded by 
Mr. Cook.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for 
Sweetgrass, 5th Filing, a subdivision of a portion of the N½ of Section 16, Township 13 North, 
Range 66 West of the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of 
East College Drive and adjacent to Sweetgrass Drive.  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt with revised final 
plat map dated January 19, 2021, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#6118) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting an amendment to the Future Land Use Map in PlanCheyenne, 
amending the land use category for property generally located east of South Greeley Highway at 
Terry Ranch Road from Agricultural and Mixed-Use Employment to Industrial and amending the 
Urban Service Boundary and Natural and Cultural Resources Area.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6119) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Emergency Management Agency 
Preparedness Grant Application under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, on behalf of 
the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne, for the purpose of purchasing a fire engine – referred 
to Finance Committee.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal advised the resolution had 
been reviewed under other items for the agenda at the January 19, 202 1 Finance Committee 
meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. Cook .  Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Interim  Chief John Kopper  provided 
information on the resolution and explained they are requesting a  grant to replace  the current 
Engine #1 which is in dire need of replacement and noted the grant requires a 10% match.  Upon 
inquiry, Interim Chief Kopper explaine d it is recommended that front line engines should be no 
older than 10 years  old.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
(#6120) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Emergency Management Agency 
Preparedness Grant Application under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, on behalf of 
the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne, for the purpose of purchasing new automotive 
   
extrication equipment for all front line apparatus for Cheyenne Fire Rescue  – referred to Finance 
Committee.  Mr. Roybal advised the resolution had been reviewed under other items for the agenda 
at the January 19, 2021 Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code 
have been met.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Cheyenne Fire and Rescue 
Interim Chief John Kopper explained the grant application is a joint regional application and is for 
extraction equipment.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6121) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Office on 
Violence Against Women OVW-2021-37003 Improving Criminal Justice Responses to Domestic 
Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault and Stalking Grant Program CFDA Number 16.590 -
Grants to Encourage Arrests Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 Preliminary Plat for Campstool Addition, 5 th Filing, generally located north of Venture 
Drive/Interstate 80 Service Road east of In dustry Drive.  Upon inquiry, Kris Jones , City Clerk, 
explained item #15 is on the consent agenda for referral to the Finance Committee.  Dr. Rinne 
moved to acknowledge Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve with Planning 
Commission recommendations #1 – 3, seconded by Mr. Segrave.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
 Letter of Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the United 
States Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, for locating and eradicating illicit 
cannabis, and investigating and prosecuting those cases.  Sergeant Tim Meyrick, Cheyenne Police 
Department, advised the Police Department is in support of the agreement and explained the funds 
can be used for  overtime, training and approved equipment purchases.   Upon inquiry, Sergeant 
Meyrick explained the annual dollar amount for cannabis enforcement doesn’t usually exceed the 
agreement amount.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve in the amount of $65,000.00, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Upon further inquiry, Sergeant Meyrick explained the primary purpose of the agreement 
is for cannabis eradication, but it can apply to other types of illegal substances that may be 
encountered during cannabis eradication .  Comment was made noting cannabis is legal in some 
form in 39 states.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#7274) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenn e, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization, and West Edge Collective LLC, for FY 2021 MPO Public Engagement 
and Web Support Services (MPO Federal funds) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $31,200.00). (#7275) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and GLM Design Group 
for the submission of two Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) Capability - 
and Capacity- Building Funding grant applications to FEMA for the City of Cheyenne (2019-2022 
1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $32,000.00). 
(#7276) 
 
   
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Little Joe Company, 
LLC, for the Janitorial Services for City of Cheyenne Facilities Project (General Fund, Fleet 
Maintenance Fund & Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and L and L, Inc. for the 
provision of golf services at the Airport Golf Clubhouse – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement  between the City of Cheyenne and L and L, Inc. for the use of the 
Kingham Prairie View Clubhouse and the provision of golf services at the Kingham Prairie View 
Golf Course – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District Number One (LCSD #1) to provide LCSD #1 use of city owned softball fields for 
practices and competitions – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and GLM Design Group 
for drainage engineering support (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 7206 between the City of Cheyenne and Inman 
Roofing, Inc., to replace wood nailer on Cheyenne Aquatic Center roof (General Fund -CIP 
Account).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $3,475.10). (#7206) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7257 between the City of Cheyenne and Clean Air 
and Water Systems, LLC, for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1 and 2 and Cell 3 Excavation 
Earthworks project for additional labor to install liner in the leachate trench (Solid Waste Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7258 between the City of Cheyenne and Northwest 
Linings & Geotextile Products Inc., for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1 and 2 and Cell 3 
Excavation Earthworks project for additional liner and shipping cost for the leachate trench  (Solid 
Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #6798 between the City of Cheyenne and Trihydro 
Corporation to extend the Environmental Monitoring at the Happy Jack Landfill for an additional 
three years (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-9-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and 4 Quarters 
Excavation & Development for the East Cheyenne Community Park -Parking Lot and Trailhead 
Construction Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( in an 
amount not to exceed $117,499.00). (#7277) 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
   
 Reappointment of Gregg Jones to the Brownfields Revolving Loan Committee.   Upon 
inquiry, it was advised Mr. Jones has served on the Brownfields Revolving Loan Committee for 
approximately 3 years.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did 
not vote (mayoral appointment).   
 
 Appointment of Don Pierson to the Police Civil Service Commission.  Mr. Segrave moved 
to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointment).  
 
 Under other business:  
  
 Mr. White noted the annual audit report by McGee, Hearne and Paiz, LLP was heard 
recently by members of the governing body and resulted in a clean audit with no recommendations.  
Mr. White expressed appreciation to the City Treasurer’s offices under the leadership of City 
Treasurer Robin Lockman.  Mayor Collins congratulated Ms. Lockman for the successful audit. 
 
 Mr. Johnson expressed condolences for the recent passing of prior city employee Scott 
Smith.  Mayor Collins also expressed condolences. 
 
 Mr. Laybourn reported on the ribbon cutting ceremony held at the Cheyenne A quatic 
Center for their reopening.  He also  commented on the Civic Center and how the Cheyenne  
Symphony Orchestra has been able to continue performing at this venue, noting however, the need 
for the facility to be renovated. Mayor  Collins expressed appreciation to Civic Center  staff for 
preparing the venue for various uses. 
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:29 p.m.  
 
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
  
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 31, 2021 
   
 