MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2021-02-08 | CLIP_ID: 788 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 788

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 8, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at the Cheyenne Civic Center and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited.  
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. )  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Cook.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 25, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of and adjacent to South Greeley Highway between High Plains Road and Terry Ranch 
Road.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. (#4341) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential 
to AG Agricultural and HI Heavy Industrial for land located east of and adjacent to South Greeley 
Highway between High Plains Road and Terry Ranch Road.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4342) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI (Light Industrial) to MR (Medium -Density 
Residential) for property generally located northeast of the intersection of Pebrican Avenue and 
East 2nd Street.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Comments were made in support of the zone change and proposed development.  It was noted 
there have been multiple neighbor complaints concerning a neighboring property located at 609 
Pebrican which is currently without sewer and water.  Additional concerns were raised involving 
taking care of problem properties in neighborhoods so property values can be maintained.   Mr. 
Segrave declared a conflict of interest due to a business relationship and did not participate in the 
discussion.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
   
of Mr. Segrave who didn’t vote. (#4343)  
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne, changing the zoning classification from MR (Medium-Density Residential) to CB 
(Community Business) for property generally located northeast of the intersection of Carbon 
Avenue and East 13th Street.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by 
Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4344) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) Section 
5.8.4, Fences – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to create the definition, ‘Family Unit’ and amend the definition of ‘Dwelling 
Unit’ – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 12.04, Streets, 
Sidewalks, and Driveways Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Laybourn) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Bison 
Business Park, a plat of portions of Sections 28, 29, and 32, Township 13 North, Range 66 West 
of the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of and adjacent to  
South Greeley Highway between High Plains Road and Terry Ranch Road)  (Postponed from 
January 25, 2021).  Betsey Hale, CEO of Cheyenne Leads, expressed appreciation to the City for 
their involvement and work on the resolution to allow for the development of the business park.  
Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  White.  Dr. Rinne advised a motion to include 
Planning Commission Condition #1 was inadvertently left out at the Public Services Committee  
meeting, therefore, Dr. Rinne moved to amend by including the Planning Commission Condition 
#1, and revised final plat map dated February 2, 202 1, seconded by Mr. Cook.  It was confirmed 
by Dr. Rinne and Ms. Hale that  the substitute map changes the name of Bison Road to Loving 
Trail due to another road being named Bison Road west of town.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#6122) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Office on 
Violence Against Women OVW-2021-37003 Improving Criminal Justice Responses to Domestic 
Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault and Stalki ng Grant Program CFDA Number 16.590 -
Grants to Encourage Arrests Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program .  Captain 
Nate Buseck, Acting Police Chief, reported that they are requesting this item not be approved and 
explained the grant is awarded annually and due to issues involving management of the grant, staff 
is recommending they visit approval next year.  He further advised the Police Department would 
like to work with the Sheriff ’s Department for future managem ent of the grant.   Captain Buseck 
noted managing the grant is almost a fulltime job in itself  and the funding pays for overtime for 
officers responding to domestic violence calls.  He feels the grant would be better managed by the 
   
County who can include other entities involved.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal 
advised the item died due to lack of a motion, therefore there is no recommendation.  Mayor 
Collins advised there has been positive communication relating to future partnerships for 
management of the grant.  Upon inquiry, City Clerk Kris Jones and City Attorney Michael 
O’Donnell provided a point of clarification that due to the lack of a motion, the item can die or the 
governing body can make a motion and second and vote it down.  Item died due to lack of motion. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Cahill Park 
Addition, Filing No. 5, a replat of Lot 2, Block 1, Cahill Park Addition, Filing No. 4, Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Dell Range Boulevard between 
Windmill Road and Moran Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. 
Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the sale of surplus city-owned property generally located at 
the northeast corner of Morrie Avenue and east Lincolnway, together with improvements thereon, 
and authorizing the Mayor to proceed with sale and transfer of the property – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Calling for an Americans with Disabilities Act Compliance evaluation 
and transition plan for the City of Cheyenne Municipal Building – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing creation of a Community Technology Advisory Council and 
Directing the Mayor to appoint the same – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. 
Aldrich) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing creation of an Innovation and Entrepreneur Advisory 
Council and Directing the Mayor to appoint the same – referred to Pu blic Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Little Joe Company, 
LLC, for the Janitorial Services for City of Cheyenne Facilities Project (General Fund, Fleet 
Maintenance Fund & Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not 
to exceed $148,200.00). (#7281) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and L and L, Inc. for the 
provision of golf services at the Airport Golf Clubhouse.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#7282) 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement  between the City of Cheyenne and L and L, Inc. for the use of the 
Kingham Prairie View Clubhouse and the provision of golf services at the Kingham Prairie View 
Golf Course.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7283) 
 
   
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District Number One (LCSD #1) to provide LCSD #1 use of city owned softball fields for 
practices and competitions.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7284) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and GLM Design Group 
for drainage engineering support (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (amount not to exceed $48,000.00). (#7285) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne , Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO), and BenchMark Engineers, PC for the Walterscheid Boulevard 
Reconstruction Plan (MPO Federal Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and LuckyDog Recreation, A shton, ID, for the 
Pioneer Park Play System Project (Community Development Block Grant) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Star Playgrounds, Littleton, CO, for the 
South Lions Park Play System Project (Community Facility Fees Fund and Land and Water 
Conservation Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement with the State of WY Office of Homeland Security for a grant 
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), FEMA, Grant Programs Directorate, 
SHSP Grant Fiscal Year 2018 in the amount of $3,418.28 for the Cheyenne Regional Respo nse 
Team #7  (DHS Grand Code:  EMW-2018-SS-00065) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7257 between the City of Cheyenne and Clean Air 
and Water Systems, LLC, for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1 and 2 and Cell 3 Excavation 
Earthworks project for additional labor to install liner in the leachate trench (Solid Waste Fund).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $7,402.50). (#7257) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7258 between the City of Cheyenne and Northwest 
Linings & Geotextile Products Inc., for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1 and 2 and Cell 3 
Excavation Earthworks project for additional liner and shipping cost for the leachate trench  (Solid 
Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $29,726.76). 
(#7258) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #6798 between the City of Cheyenne and Trihydro 
Corporation to extend the Environmental Monitoring at the Happy Jack Landfill for an additional 
three years (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$230,707.00). (#6798) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 7134 between the City of Cheyenne and AVI 
Professional Corporation for construction management services for the Capitol Basin 26 th Street 
Storm Sewer Extension Design Project (2015 -2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -1-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors, for the 24th Street Mill and Overlay Project (2015-2018 and 2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Appointments of Josh Chrysler and Amber Conwell to the Historic Preservation Board; 
and Richard Vallee to the Public Transit Advisory Board.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded 
by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments).   
 
 Announcement was made that due to the President’s Day Holiday on Monday, February 
15, 2021, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held via electronic 
conference meetings as follows:  Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, February 16, 2021  at 
Noon and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday, February, 17, 2021 Noon. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, February 22, 2021, at 
6:00 p.m. in the Cheyenne Civic Center, 510 W. 20 th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming,  and via 
electronic conference meeting , for renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, 
restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite distillery, winery 
and special malt beverage permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.   City Clerk Kris Jones 
announced that due to a scheduling conflict, the February 22, 2021 meeting of the governing body 
will be held electronically only (via Zoom).  Mayor Collins explained the Cheyenne Symphony 
Orchestra previously reserved the facility on that date.   
 
 Under other business:  
  
 Mayor Collins expressed appreciation to C ivic Center and other City staff for their work 
in making it possible to host City Council meetings at the Civic Center. 
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:22 p.m.  
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  February 17, 2021 