MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2021-02-22 | CLIP_ID: 790 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 790

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 22, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:0 0 p.m. via electronic conference meeting .  Present were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins , 
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete 
Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White.  Also present: Kris Jones, 
City Clerk. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. )  Upon request by Mr.  Laybourn, and pursuant to support 
received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Johnson, agenda items #16 & 17 were removed from the Consent 
Agenda.  Mr. White moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 8, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for r enewal applications for existing City liquor 
licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite 
distillery, winery and special malt beverage permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  There 
being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, the applications were 
referred to Committee of the Whole  to be held on March 3, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. at the Cheyenne 
Civic Center and via electronic conference meeting, and Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) 
Section 5.8.4, Fences.  Brandon Swain voiced support for the ordinance.   Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  
Comment was made related to the proposed allowed 7’ height of privacy fences d iscouraging 
people from seeing over them to adjacent areas that may contain debris that needs to be picked up.  
It was also noted the rationale of increasing privacy fences from 6’ to 7’ is to align with what the 
International Building Code ( IBC) allows and that fences over 6’ require a building permit. Dr. 
Rinne moved to amend  Section 4(a)(2) by changing the fence height from  7’ to 6’, seconded by 
Mr. Cook.  Dr. Rinne noted the reason for the amendment would be to keep fence height the same 
with what it has been historically and because 7’ fences would require a building permit.  Upon 
inquiry, Charles Bloom, Planning and Development Director, advised that both 6’ and 7’ fences 
could be a visual barrier and it is u p to the governing body to determine what is aesthetically 
appropriate for neighborhoods.  He further noted that different fence heights ranging from 6’ -8’ 
aren’t uncommon in neighborhoods generally and that 7’ fence pickets are n’t available for 
   
purchase but 8’ pickets can be purchased and cut down.  Mr. Bloom further explained upon inquiry 
that the proposed setback from side streets is the main scope  of the ordinance.  Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “ yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Esquibel 
and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to create the definition, ‘Family Unit’ and amend the definition of ‘Dwelling 
Unit’.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Concern was 
expressed related to ordinance timing due to a housing crisis in the community and there not being 
an efficient way to monitor or enforce the ordinance.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Laybourn voting 
“no”.  
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 12.04, Streets, 
Sidewalks, and Driveways Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming . Amber Ash , Downtown Development Authority 
Director, advised the DDA board met last week and voted to support the ordinance.   She further 
explained she  has been working on th e ordinance with city staff for several months to find a 
solution to address downtown sidewalks without putting a burden on property owners.   It was 
noted that one concern is that if a property is located between 2 buildings, there can be issues with 
meeting DDA requirements.   Patti R iesland, Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities,  
commented on 2 studies conducted in the areas of 16th St. to 24th St. and from Warren to Pioneer 
that had results indicating an abundance of  disrepair between 16 th and 19th Streets.  She further 
noted that conditions are causing  difficulty for walking in certain areas  and there are  overall 
accessibility concerns resulting in negative economic impact as people with disabilities have issues 
with navigating aspects of  downtown streets, sidewalks and curbs .  Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to amend by substitute submitted February 16, 2021 by the attorney’s office, seconded by 
Mr. White.  Alessandra McCoy Fakelman, Deputy City Attorney, explained the substitute includes 
clarification regarding responsibilities of the city and adjacent property owners noting the city is 
only responsible for curb and gutter and that language related to liens was also refined.  Motion to 
amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Support for the 
ordinance was expressed.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development 
Regulating Plan and Section 5.6.2 PUD -Planned Unit Development District, of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC) amending Ordinance Number 3741, which established The 
Village Planned Unit Development (PUD), to allow mixed use business (MUB) District  Use on 
Lot 28 of Block 2 of The Village PUD located southwest of the intersection of Powderhouse Road 
and Old Town Lane – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 
 
   
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Chapter 5.68, Body Art Establishments and 
Operations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 5.12.150, Suspension or Revocation 
of License; Denial of Permit, of Chapter 5.12 , Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, 
Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Cahill Park 
Addition, Filing No. 5, a replat of Lot 2, Block 1, Cahill Park Addition, Filing No. 4, Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to Dell Range Boulevard between 
Windmill Road and Moran Avenue).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6123) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the sale of surplus city-owned property generally located at 
the northeast corner of Morrie Avenue and east Lincolnway, together with improvements thereon, 
and authorizing the Mayor to proceed with sale and transfer of the property.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried.  (#6124) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Calling for an Americans with Disabilities Act Compliance evaluation 
and transition plan for the City of Cheyenne Municipal Building .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6125) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing creation of a Community Technology Advisory Council and 
Directing the Mayor to appoint the same .  Gunnar Malm, County Commissioner, requested 
clarification on the composition of members of the advisory council.  Mayor Collins provided 
advisory council information explaining he is looking to bring a group of experts together to help 
him understand what is needed to enhance technology and promote a technology driven 
environment moving forward for businesses.  It was noted that the advisory council will help  
determine what is needed to make the city’s tech community stronger.  Mayor Collins further 
explained it is not anticipated that the advisory council will result in any financial impact.  Eric 
Trowbridge, CEO of Array, spoke in support of the resolution and advisory council and provided 
information on the broadband task force outlining 7 key recommendations to make sure the city is 
prepared for the future in technology.  Mr. Trowbridge advised it would be ideal that the advisory 
council deliver information to the governing body on an ongoing basis.  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Discussion followed on possible language amendments to clarify the 
intent of the advisory council providing clarification on the member composition.  As sponsor of 
the resolution, Dr. Aldrich advised she was amenable to proposed amendments as the advisory 
council is non-binding and may include people that live outside of city limits and noted technology 
doesn’t stop at the city limits.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Collins provided additional information on 
the intent of the advisory council noting it will be a  group of individuals with knowledge in the 
field of technology providing advice for the future of technology.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend the 
5th “Whereas” paragraph by replacing “residents” with “members” and deleting the remainder of 
the paragraph, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Mr. Malm stated he is supportive of the amendment as it 
clarifies the membership and noted he  supports the advisory council.  Mr. White suggested a 
   
friendly amendment related to the motion on the floor r eplacing “residents” with “members” and 
deleting the remainder of the 8th paragraph.  Dr. Rinne accepted the proposed friendly amendment 
with Dr. Aldrich concurring as second to the motion.   (Amendment with friendly amendment: 
Paragraph 5, replace “residents” with “members” and remove the remainder of the sentence to 
read:  “Whereas, the Community Technology Advisory Council will be comprised of seven (7) 
members” and in the Be it further Resolv ed paragraph, replace “residents with “members” and 
remove “residents from the  City of Cheyenne, the County of Laramie and its incorporated towns 
and cities”). Motion to amend, including the friendly amendment, carried.   Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. (#6126) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing creation of an Innovation and Entrepreneur Advisory 
Council and Directing the Mayor to appoint the same .  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave.  Dr. Aldrich explained this is a non -binding advisory council , there is a lot of 
entrepreneurial activity in the community and many other communities have this type of council.  
Dr. Aldrich further noted the Univer sity of Wyoming has received funding and will partner with 
LCCC to provide the opportunity to hear from people in many different fields about areas of 
interest that attract people and keep people in our community.   Dr. Rinne moved to amend by 
replacing “residents” with “members” and deleting the remainder of the paragraph for paragraphs 
6 and 9, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion to amend carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body.  As a point of clarification, City Clerk Kris Jones noted agenda item #19 may have 
inadvertently not been requested to be removed from the agenda, and Mayor Collins explained the 
item can remain on the agenda. (#6127) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. 16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Emergenc y Management Agency 
Preparedness Grant under the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) 
Program, on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne, for the purpose of providing 
additional staffing – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO), and BenchMark Engineers, PC for the Walterscheid Boulevard 
Reconstruction Plan (MPO Federal Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $97,794.00). (#7287) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and LuckyDog Recreation, Ashton, ID, for the 
Pioneer Park Play System Project (Community Development Block Grant).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $216,996.00). (#7288) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Star Playgrounds, Littleton, CO, for the 
South Lions Park Play System Project (Community Facility Fees Fund and Land and Water 
   
Conservation Grant) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$249,499.00). (#7289) 
 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement with the State of WY Office of Homeland Security for a grant 
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), FEMA, Grant Programs Directorate, 
SHSP Grant Fiscal Year 2018 in  the amount of $3,418.28 for the Cheyenne Regional Response 
Team #7  (DHS Grand Code:  EMW -2018-SS-00065).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  
(#7290) 
 
[CA] Section 5307 COVID-19 Emergency Relief for Operations Grant Agreement between the 
City of Cheyenne and the Federal Transit Administration to fund Transit operations and purchase 
PPE related to COVID-19 (5307-Emergency Relief Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract # 7134 between the City of Cheyenne and  AVI 
Professional Corporation for construction management services for the Capitol Basin 26 th Street 
Storm Sewer Extension Design Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $316,903.00). (#7134) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 for Renewal and Amendment of Agreement #7033 (Contract 
#7033) between the City of Cheyenne and Preserve Historic Wyoming, a Wyoming Non -Profit 
Organization, to remediate hazardous substances to renovate the building located at 1605 Central 
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming  (EPA Revolving Loan Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #8 to Contract # 6162 between the City of Cheyenne and 
CenturyLink Communications, LLC, for modification to the City’s Metro Ether net network 
servicing outlaying offices – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -1-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors, for the 24 th Street Mill and Overlay Project (2015-2018 and 2019 -2022 1% Sales 
Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $1,166,112.15). (#7291) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-11-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and CXT, Inc. 
an LB Foster Company, Spokane, WA, for the Cheyenne Junior League Pre -Cast Restroom and 
Concession Building Project (Community Facility Fees and Recreation Mill Grant) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-13-21 for furnishing eight (8) new four-door 2021 Model Utility 
(SUV) Police Interceptors, and one (1) 2021 Utility Cargo Vehicle (Van) for the City of Cheyenne, 
Cheyenne Police Department  (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-14-21 for furnishing eight (8) Motorola APX8500 Mobile Radios 
for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
   
[CA] Request to expand retail liquor license premise dimensions for HEJE, Inc. d/b/a Outlaw 
Liquors, 4503 Western Way, Suite C – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Appointment of Mark G. Francisco as Chief of Police for the City of Cheyenne.  Dr. Rinne 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointment). 
  
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, March 8, 2021, at 6:00 
p.m. in the Cheyenne Civic Center, 510 W. 20 th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic 
conference meeting, for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office 
for Machapuchare Inc. d/b/a Durbar Nepalese & Indian Bistro, 3515 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, March 8, 2021, at 6:00 
p.m. in the Cheyenne Civic Center, 510 W. 20 th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic 
conference meeting , to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for land located north of Dell Range Boulevard west of Whitney 
Road. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, March 8, 2021, at 6:00 
p.m. in the Cheyenne Civic Center, 510 W. 20 th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic 
conference meeting , to determine whether compliance of annexat ion conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for land located north of Dell Range Boulevard east of Griffith 
Avenue.   
 
 Under other business:  
  
 Amber Ash, Director of DDA, provided an update on the downtown  graffiti abatement 
program stating removal from buildings with the permission of property owners is in process.  She 
noted the DDA is also working with CoreCivic to apply paint that was provided by the Public 
Works Department to trash receptacles that have been ta gged.  It was further advised that Black 
Hills Energy has also been applying paint to graffiti on their boxes and David Hatch, owner of the 
Hynds Building, has whitewashed plywood on the Bell Building.  She noted that the DDA hopes 
to be able to install cameras in downtown areas to help curb graffiti activity in the future.  Ms. Ash 
expressed appreciation to Mark Christensen, Planning and Development, for presenting the West 
Edge Overlay District information to their board.  Mayor Collins thanked Ms. Ash for her efforts 
in supporting downtown.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Ash provided information on the mural program and 
explained generally the murals haven’t historically been tagged and that they provide vibrancy to 
downtown and help detour graffiti. 
 
 
   
 Mr. White moved to meet in executive session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16-4-405(x),    
for the purpose of  a personnel matter related to Collective Labor Bargaining with Cheyenne 
Professional Fire Fighters, International Association of Fire Fighters, Local No. 279, seconded by 
Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Mayor Collins 
announced members would meet in executive session v ia private conference call, not open to the 
public; requested the City Attorney, Deputy  City Attorney, City Clerk and City Treasurer be 
present and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the executive 
session, and that t he regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close of the 
executive session. (Clerk’s Note: executive session convened at 7:04 p.m.).     
 
 Following closure of the executive session, Mayor Collins reconvened the regular meeting 
at 8:03 p.m.   
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:03 p.m.  
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 3, 2021 