MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2021-03-08 | CLIP_ID: 793 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 793

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 8, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at the Cheyenne Civic Center and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.)  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 22, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on February 25, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on March 1, 2021 .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a restaurant liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s office for Machapuchare Inc. d/b/a Durbar Nepalese & Indian Bistro, 3515 E. 
Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing 
having been met, Mayor Colli ns closed the hearing  and referred the application to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for land located north of Dell Range 
Boulevard west of Whitney Road.  Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development, explained they 
received a petition to annex the land, provided information on the property  and reviewed 
requirements of compliance with annexation conditions contained in state statutes.  Upon inquiry, 
Mr. Lloyd advised he would provide information relating to the p ercentage of boundary that is 
contiguous, noting this information was provided in the department’s staff report documentation.  
Rod Stone provided information about the engineeri ng firm on the proposed project stating they 
worked on the Thomas Heights project which has caused extensive flooding and damage to 
properties in the area.  Mr. Stone referenced a city funded  3rd party review in the amount of 
$26,000.00 which he doesn’t be lieve anything has been done with the report .  Dave Grigsby 
   
reported he bought his property in the  area of Thomas Heights 30 years ago and has experienc ed 
flooding from the project’s poor design.  Larry Bechtle advised h e also lives in th e area and has 
experienced flooding since August 2017 following the construction of the Thomas Heights 
addition and that the flooding has damaged his septic system .  Mr. Stone, Mr. Grigsby and Mr. 
Bechtle provided additional information relating to the development of Thomas Heights which has 
caused extensive damage and flooding the area and expressed frustration in trying to find resolve 
for those damages.  They stated the city may want to consider restricting the engineering firm from 
these types of developments until restitution and repairs have taken place.  They further provided 
comments relating to the Unified Development Code (UDC) which is supposed to ensure there is 
no damage to surrounding properties and referenced drainage issues in an area in Sun Valley that 
the same engineering firm designed.   Mayor Collins advised the city is working towards a solution 
that will hopefully be completed in the near future for the Thomas Heights area.  Mr. Grigsby also 
reported that City Engineer Thomas Cobb has been out to review the situation .  Information was 
requested for additional solutions and it was noted some property owners were advised by the city 
that one option would be to get a personal loan to repair property damages and issues.  It was noted 
that attempts to reach certain city officials regarding this issue have been challenging in the past.  
Discussion included concerns involving serious code violations, future developments with regards 
to damage to area prop erties from design flaws , determining who is responsible for repairing 
damage that may occur and future prevention efforts.  Additional comments were made relating to 
the 2019 3 rd party analysis receive by city , status of those results and lack of a solution for the 
problem.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, 
Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing  to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for land located north of Dell Range 
Boulevard east of Griffith Avenue.  Mark Christensen, Planning and Development, explained they 
received a petition to  annex the land, provided information on the property  and reviewed 
requirements of and compliance with annexation conditions contained in state statutes .  There 
being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins 
closed the hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) 
Section 5.8.4, Fences.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. (#4345) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to create the definition, ‘Family Unit’ and amend the definition of ‘Dwelling 
Unit’.  Ursula Schultz spoke in favor of the ordinance.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Concern was expressed related to ordinance timing due to 
a housing crisis in the community and there not being an efficient way to monitor or enforce the 
ordinance.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. (#4346) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 12.04, Streets, 
   
Sidewalks, and Driveways Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Amber Ash,  Downtown Development Authority  
Executive Director, spoke in support of the ordinance stating the design committee for the DDA 
will be considering an amendment for an improvement grant that would provide eligibility for 
funding under that program with the goal of combining what the city is responsible for with the 
DDA to help contribute to get sidewalks in good condition.  Reporting for Finance Committee, 
Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to amend by substitute dated March 1 , 2021 , seconded by M r. White. Mayor Collins 
advised the substitute amends the amount and definition of curb and gutter.  Motion to amend by 
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   Concerns were voiced of 
deteriorating curb and gutter throughout the city.  Mayor Collins advised this issue can be reviewed  
through the Pavement Management Program.  Members of the governing body expressed 
appreciation to Mr. Laybourn for his continued efforts regarding failing concrete issues involving 
materials used and integrity of work being performed by contractors.   Support was voiced to the 
DDA for embracing options for solutions and it was noted that this project is a starting point for a 
limited area that can be evaluated and potentially implemented in other areas of town.  Discussion 
included potential for a 3 rd party to review materials used for concrete  and concerns with use of 
substandard materials and appreciation for looking at options for remediation and prevention of 
future concrete deterioration.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. (#4347) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development 
Regulating Plan and Section 5.6.2 PUD -Planned Unit Development District, of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC) amending Ordinance Number 3741, which established The 
Village Planned Unit Deve lopment (PUD), to allow mixed use business (MUB) District Use on 
Lot 28 of Block 2 of The Village PUD located southwest of the intersection of Powderhouse Road 
and Old Town Lane .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve  on second reading , seconded by Mr. Cook.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Chapter 5.68, Body Art Establishments and 
Operations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Alessandra McCoy Fakelman, 
Deputy City Attorney, prov ided a staff report stating this is a council initiated ordinance which 
includes mostly clerical language changes.  Ms. McCoy Fakelman reported a notable change is on 
page 2 to Section 5.68.020  which no longer exempts gun piercing of ear lobes  from licensing 
requirements and a change to the definition of language pertaining to minors receiving genitalia 
and breast area piercings and tattoos and noted she will also be proposing an amendment  to that 
section.  Steven Martinez, Bad Ass Tattoo Company, voiced concerns with the proposed changes.  
Mr. Martinez spoke to the longevity of businesses such as Claire ’s that provide ear piercing 
services using a gun piercing system.  He noted the proposed language would not allow for use of 
that system and would force patrons to seek more expensive services and spoke in opposition to 
the age restriction for this service.  He provided information relating to current city code and state 
statutes involving requirements for min ors including acceptable identification forms.  Mr. 
Martinez further stated he is unaware of any Health Department concerns with infection associated 
with these services.   He stated he is concerned  the proposed changes will push people to seek 
services out of town or they will result to home self -piercing methods.  Sativa Osiris, Diamond 
   
Dog Piercing, voiced support and reported concern with the repeated use of the term simple lobe 
piercing and noted that piercing the skin by any method is modifying the body.  Ms. Osiris advised 
the proposed regulations will allow such businesses as Claire’s to perform ear piercing services if 
they meet body art licensing regulations.  She noted the lack of sanitary conditions in stores such 
as Claire’s as they don’t currently have hand washing stations in their piercing areas and perform 
piercing services on carpeted surfaces .  Mr. Roybal advised the item failed at the Finance 
Committee, therefore there is no recommendation  from the committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by substitute 
dated March 8, 2021, seconded by Mr . Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Ms. McCoy Fakelman explained 
the proposed substitute clarifies the anatomical definition in Section 5.68.050( M) on page 7 by 
removing the word “ breast” replacing it with “ nipple”.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Upon inquiry, 
Mayor Collins explained the strike out of language pertaining to use of a piercing gun system 
simply no longer exempts  requirements of piercing.  Ms.  McCoy Fakelman confirmed  the 
proposed language removes the exception and removes the gun piercing from the definition in its 
entirety.  Upon inquiry, Dr. Aldrich reported a public forum was held and all current establishments 
holding body art licenses were notified and  there were no other comments  received other than 
those made by Mr. Martinez and Ms. Osiris.  Upon further inquiry, Ms. McCoy Fakelman advised 
that by removing the exception for  gun piercing systems, those types of piercing services will be 
required to follow current body art regulations.  Discussion included support for  unified health 
requirements and guidelines for body art services and support from the majority of the body artists 
in the community was received.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 5.12.150, Suspension or Revocation 
of License; Denial of Permit, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, 
Business Licenses and Regulations, of the C ode of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming . Michael 
O’Donnell, City Attorney,  advised there is a recommendation to amend Section 5.12.150 (a)(2) 
referencing any violation relating to any state or local law, noting it will be modified to laws related 
to alcohol.  Upon inquiry from Bryan “Alf” Grzegorczyk, Alf’s Pub,  on the intent of the ordinance, 
Mr. O’Donnell advised the intent is to fill a void in current city code that only allows for suspension 
or revocation at renewal period and this will allow for consideration to suspend or revoke any time 
during the licensing year  upon violation of liquor laws.  Alf voiced support  and reported the 
majority of liquor license es follow the law s.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated March 8, 2021, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  [Clerk’s note:  Following adjournment of the meeting  and upon inquiry, it was 
determined the correct substitute date is March 5, 2021].  Upon inquiry, Mr. O’Donnell provided 
additional information relating to violation of liquor laws and suspension and revocation process.  
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Mr. Laybourn and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting 
“no”.   
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 5.12.110, Open Container -Sales and 
Consumption-Exceptions, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, 
   
Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. 
Roybal and Mr. White) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB (Community Business) to MUB (Mixed-
Use Business Emphasis) for property generally located at the southwest corner of the intersection 
of McCann Ave. and E. Pershing Blvd. – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. 
Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) Section 
6.6.3.b.1, Encroachments – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Whitney Road – referred to Public Services 
Committee.  (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A -2 Agricultural to MR Medium -
Density Residential for land located north of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Whitney Road – 
referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Dell Range Boulevard and east of Griffit h Avenue – referred to Public Services 
Committee.  (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MR (Medium -Density Residential) to 
MR (Medium-Density Residential) for property generally located north of Dell Range Boulevard 
and east of Griffith Avenue – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. 16-4-112 & 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6128) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Emergency Management Agency 
Preparedness Grant under the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emerg ency Response (SAFER) 
Program, on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne, for the purpose of providing 
additional staffing.  Mr. Roybal advised the item died at Finance Committee, therefore th ere was 
no recommendation from the committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Support for the resolution was expressed and comments were made related to the importance of 
additional staff during the pandemic , additional staff needed to man  a new fire station, the 
importance of public safety and how attrition will likely occur due to retirements.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6129) 
 
   
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Wyoming 
Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program, Grant Funding for the City’s Mobile 
D.U.I. Command Vehicle – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Establishing an Affordable Housing Task Force to assess the current and 
projected future landscape of housing affordability in the City of Cheyenne – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting and recommending the United States Congress propose and 
send to the states for ratification, an amendment to the United States Constitution clarifying the 
distinction between the rights of natural persons and the rights of corporations, unions, and other 
legal entities, and providing Congress and the State Legislatures the right to regulate monies raised 
and spent for political purposes – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich and 
Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the issuance and sale by the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming of 
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021, in a principal amount not to exceed $5,445,000, for the 
purpose of refunding the City’s outstanding Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series 2012; prescribing 
the form of said Series 2021 Bonds; providing for the payment of the principal and interest thereon; 
ratifying, approving and confirming previous actions of officers and members of the Governing 
Body of the City and employees thereof; and determining other matters related to the bonds – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] Section 5307 COVID-19 Emergency Relief for Operations Grant Agreement between the 
City of Cheyenne and the Federal Transit Administration to fund Transit operations and purchase 
PPE related to COVID-19 (5307-Emergency Relief Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(in the amount of $1,156,906.00). (#7302) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Fire & Rescue 
Department and Stitches Acute Care Center to provide occupational medical exams (2019 -2022 
1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Sponsorship Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Spradley Barr Toyota for the 
2021-2022 Performing Arts Series, Family Film Series Presenting Sponsor, Sponsor of the 
Cheyenne Civic Center audio contro l desk and as an Art Access Sponsor (revenue to the city) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Sponsorship Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HollyFrontier Cheyenne 
Renewable Diesel Company, LLC, to designate HollyFrontier as the Presenting Sponsor of 
SuperDay 2021, SuperDay Tour de Prairie and SuperDay 5K Walk/Run (revenue to the city) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District #1 to provide transportation services for the summer Rec Camp Program – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
   
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Employee On-Boarding Specialties for drug 
screening and alcohol testing services – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 for Renewal and Amendment of Agreement #7033 (Contract 
#7033) between the City of Cheyenne and Preserve Historic Wyoming, a Wyoming Non -Profit 
Organization, to remediate hazardous substances to renovate the building located at 1605  Central 
Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming  (EPA Revolving Loan Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $24,632.51). (#7033) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #8 to Contract # 6162 between the City of Cheyenne and 
CenturyLink Communication s, LLC, for modification to the City’s Metro Ethernet network 
servicing outlaying offices.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6162) 
 
CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7277 between the City of Cheyenne and 4 Quarters 
Excavation and Development for the East Cheyenne Community Park, Parking Lot and Trailhead 
Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-11-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and CXT, Inc. 
an LB Foster Company, Spoka ne, WA, for the Cheyenne Junior League Pre -Cast Restroom and 
Concession Building Project (Community Facility Fees and Recreation Mill Grant).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $385,522.00). (#7303) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-13-21 for furnishing eight (8) new four-door 2021 Model Utility 
(SUV) Police Interceptors, and one (1) 2021 Utility Cargo Vehicle (Van) for the City of Cheyenne, 
Cheyenne Police Department  (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, WY, in an amount not to exceed 
$546,979.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-14-21 for furnishing eight (8) Motorola APX8500 Mobile Radios 
for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Depar tment (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Bearcom/Motorola, Evans, CO, in an amount not to 
exceed $49,836.88). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -7-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Synergy 
Construction, LLC, for the Happy Jack Landfill Front Entrance and Scale House Project (Solid 
Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -10-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group Inc., d/b/a Knife River, for the  2021 City Overlay Part 1 Project (Specific Purpose Sales 
Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -12-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and S & S 
Builders, LLC, for the Dey Avenue Greenway Connector Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -13-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors, for the 2021 City Overlay Part 2 Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -17-21 for a furnishing four (4) utility carts for the City of 
Cheyenne Parks Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.         
 
[CA] Request to expand retail liquor license premise dimensions for HEJE, Inc. d/b/a Outlaw 
Liquors, 4503 Western Way, Suite C.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA]  Renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, 
resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite distillery, winery and special malt beverage 
permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held Monday, March 22, 2021, at 6:00 
p.m. at the Cheyenne Civic Center, 510 W. 20 th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic 
conference meeting, for a transfer of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s 
office for Redwood S aloon, LLC d/b/a/ Redwood Lounge & Package Liquors, 2105 E. 
Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by Ace Majestic, Inc. d/b/a Redwood 
Lounge and Package Liquors). 
 
 Under other business:  
  
 Mr. Johnson shared that he was contacted by a constituent who is a Navy veteran and 
recommended a street in the city to be named USS Cheyenne when a new one is constructed  or 
renamed.    
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:21 p.m.  
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 17, 2021 