MEETING: City Council Meeting - Agenda Only | DATE: 2021-03-22 | CLIP_ID: 795 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 795

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 22, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at the Cheyenne Civic Center and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson,  Pete Laybourn,  Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave  (via 
Zoom) and Jeff White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. )  Upon request by Mr.  White, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Cook  and Mr. Roybal , agenda item s #21 and 26 (b) were removed from the 
Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Esquibel, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook 
and Dr. Aldrich, agenda items #28 (b) and 28 (d) were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. 
Esquibel moved to approve  remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Vot ing 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 8, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on March 10, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a transfer of retail liquor license application 
filed with the City Clerk’s office for Redwood Saloon, LLC d/b/a/ Redwood Lounge & Package 
Liquors, 2105 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by Ace Majestic, Inc. 
d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package Liquors).  There being no comments or input and purpose of 
the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing  and referred the application to 
Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development 
Regulating Plan and Section 5.6.2 PUD -Planned Unit Development District, of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC) amending Ord inance Number 3741, which established The 
Village Planned Unit Development (PUD), to allow mixed use business (MUB) District Use on 
Lot 28 of Block 2 of The Village PUD located southwest of the intersection of Powderhouse Road 
and Old Town Lane.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4348) 
 
   
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Chapter 5.68, Body Art Establishments and 
Operations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Sativa Osiris, Diamond Dog Body 
Piercing Studio, commented on the concerns voiced relating to not allowing gun piercing .  Ms. 
Osiris reported the practice will still be allowed however, with the amendment, all businesses 
providing gun piercing will be required to adhere to body art establishment requirements.  Mr. 
Roybal advised the item failed at the Finance Committee due to lack of a second, therefore there 
is no recommendation from the committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final  
reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Mr. Esquibel moved to amend by substitute to reinsert 
previously stricken language in Section 5.68.020 under “body art” and “body piercing” definitions 
that reinserts language providing an exemption for gun piercing, seconded by Mr. Johnson.   Ms. 
Osiris inquired as to the hesitancy for requiring these types of businesses to adhere to body art 
establishment requirements, noting skin is still being pierced and she doesn’t support the 
exemption. Ms. Osiris further  stated she believes big box stores providing gun piercing services 
should adhere to sanitary regulations as the small local businesses  do and reiterated these 
establishments work on carpet and do not have hand washing sinks.  Comments were made in 
support of health and safety concerns and o pposition to allowing preference to big box 
establishments.  Comments were voiced that there have been no health concerns reported by the 
Health Department regarding gun piercing by  local establishments or big box stores and it was 
noted big box stores hire local employees.  Additional comments were made regarding monitoring 
health concerns involving gun piercing at the State Health level.  Motion to amended carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn 
and Mr. White voting “no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4349) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 5.12.150, Suspension or Revocation 
of License; Denial of Permit, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, 
Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded b y Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4350) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 5.12.110, Open Container-Sales and 
Consumption-Exceptions, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, 
Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne .  Alessandra 
McCoy Fakelman, Deputy City Attorney, r eported on the ordinance changes for open container 
laws which reflect some of the changes that were allowed last summer.  Ms. McCoy Fakelman 
advised there are a few changes related to rodeo events that change the way that open containers 
align with statute.  She provided further information to changes to wine and champagne involving 
open container allowances and other resolution changes made last summer.  It was noted o pen 
containers within the downtown district boundaries  would be allowed between 8 a.m. and 10:00 
p.m., no glass will be allowed and only malt beverage products are allowed.  Ms. McCoy Fakelman 
further reported the Governing Body retains control by allowing for limitations that can be put in 
place by resolution if necessary.  She reported that certain holidays will always be allowed:  July 
4, Cheyenne Day, and Founders Day or Statehood Day.  Amber Ash, DDA  Executive Director, 
spoke in favor of the ordinance and noted she received positive feedback related to open container 
events last summer that were beneficial to businesses downtown.  She advised she would follow 
   
up after events with the Chief of Police, noting there weren’t many concerns with the exception of 
1 minor situation involving a specific individual.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB (Community Business) to MUB (Mixed -
Use Business Emphasis) for property generally located at the southwest corner of the intersection 
of McCann Ave.  and E. Pershing Blvd.   Christofer Lovas, AVI, agent for owner and applicant, 
advised the zone change is for Health Works which is a non -profit medical facility that provides 
care for under insured.  Mr. Lovas reported Health Works purchased 4 parcels and the zone change 
will allow them to move their facility closer to Pershing Blvd.  Mr. Lovas requested a 20’ setback 
instead of the 25’ setback that is currently required, noting there are some utility easements existing 
that will require this.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) 
Section 6.6.3.b.1, Encroachments.  Dr. Rinne moved t o approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Whitney Road.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Comments were voiced related to the large size of the 
annexation and it was noted there are concerns that need to be discussed relating to prevention of 
future drainage issues.   Discussion included the following topics:  prevention of drainage issues 
relating to the platting process, necessity of approving annexation and zoning requests when they 
have met criteria, noting the Governing Body has no legal justification to deny the annexation.  
Concerns were raised involving  annexing large parcels of land and  how the city becomes 
responsible for providing public safety and lack of planning to increase first responders, police, 
and fire personnel accordingly.  Additional comments were made relating to denial of annexation 
requests that meet the annexation criteria  and need for additional housing to accommodate 
community growth.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A -2 Agricultural to MR Medium -
Density Residential for land located north of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Whitney Road .  Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  It was noted that this item 
is related to agenda item #14 and if the annexation is approved, the land must be zoned for the city.  
Motion carried.  Vo ting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Dell Range Boulevard and east of Griffith Avenue.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”.   
   
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MR (Medium -Density Residential) to 
MR (Medium-Density Residential) for property generally located north of Dell Range Boulevard 
and east of Griffith Avenue .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . 
Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception 
of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Wyoming 
Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program, Grant Funding for the City’s Mobile 
D.U.I. Command Vehicle.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6130) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Establishing an Affordable Housing Task Force to assess the current and 
projected future landscape of housing affordability in the City of Cheyenne.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried).  (#6131) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Supporting and recommending the United States Congress propose and 
send to the states for ratification, an amendment to the United States Constitution clarifying the 
distinction between the rights of natural persons and the rights of corporations, unions, and other 
legal entities, and providing Congress and the State Legislatures the right to regulate monies raised 
and spent for political purposes.  Brenden McKinney, Wyoming Promise board member, advised 
the purpose of the resolution is to address and ratify through our constitution that people have the 
same rights as corporations when it comes to elections.  He reported  money in politics  isn’t 
primarily traceable and dark money has affected elections in Wyoming without the ability to track 
it.  He further no ted this is a b ipartisan issue and effort and commented on  issues related to 
elections in Georgia.  He stated the more this continues the less voice any of us will have in our 
elections and spoke in support of the resolution.  John Rivera, Wyoming Promise board member, 
stated he has been working on this issue for a number of years and had approached some council 
members last year , and expressed appreciation to Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook and Mr. Laybourn for 
their assistance.  Mr. River a provided detailed information on Wyoming Promise, a bipartisan 
organization, and a petition drive for the cause collecting over 25,000 signatures.  As many of the 
signatures were removed for various reasons, the petition was not submitted to the Secretary of 
State as it wasn’t eligible to be placed on the ballot due to Wyoming requirements.  He noted 22 
states have similar petitions and 34 states ar e required to get congress involved to propose an 
amendment to the constitution.  Mayor Collins requested speakers to stay on topic while speaking 
to the resolution.  Mr. Rivera stated t he purpose of the resolution is to support a change to the 
constitution, noting Congress can’t on its own propose resolutions.  Albert Simpson spoke in 
support of the resolution .  Boyd Wiggam spoke in opposition of the resolution voicing concern 
with the idea of the city lending support at an attempt to erode the first amendment by asking 
Congress to take up an amendment to curtail political speech, noting it is critical that people who 
have issues be able to have financial support to speak out.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded 
by Mr. Laybourn.  Comment was made that it is unusual for the Governing Body to bring the 
matter up for consideration since there was a determination by the supreme court that corporations 
are people and can donate to campaigns and that it can be deterioration of political process when 
races can be flooded by untraceable money.  Discussion included:  campaign regulations, concerns 
   
with untraceable funding, purpo se of those funds, c hallenges related to large amounts of money 
involved in Wyoming elections, purpose of resolution, 4th branch of government and separation of 
powers, visit from a Florida representative speaking in opposition of a Wyoming representative 
vote, timing of resolution involving the legislature, issue to make a difference at a local level as 
830 resolutions have been passed at local levels.  Comment was made that this type of legislation 
is inappropriate as the purpose of the Governing Body is to handle local issues .  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with exception of Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne 
voting “no”.  (#6132) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the issuance and sale by the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming of 
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021, in a principal amount not to exceed $5,445,000, for the 
purpose of refunding the City’s outstanding Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series 2012; prescribi ng 
the form of said Series 2021 Bonds; providing for the payment of the principal and interest thereon; 
ratifying, approving and confirming previous actions of officers and members of the Governing 
Body of the City and employees thereof; and determining ot her matters related to the bonds .  
Mayor Collins declared a conflict of interest involving a family member working at a bank related 
to the resolution and recused himself from discussion and voting.  Mayor Collins relinquished 
duties of chair to Council President White.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  
Mr. Roybal moved to amend to by adding Exhibit A which includes the final principal amount, 
interest rates and listing of the bond purchasers, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Robin Lockman, City 
Treasurer, provided detailed information on the amendment and explained it is needed because 
bids weren’t received until March 8th.  Appreciation was voiced to Ms. Lockman and the Treasury 
staff for their efforts on the resolution.  Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did  not vote.  Main motion as 
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor 
Collins who did not vote.  Following announcement of the vote, Mayor Collins resumed duties of 
the chair. (#6133) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing Cheyenne Fire and Rescue to evaluate all facilities and 
operations of the Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing City Staff to initiate, develop, and execute a Property Assessed 
Clean Energy (PACE) Program – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Rinne 
and Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Whitney 
Ranch, 3rd Filing, a plat of a portion of the southwest quarter of Section 23, Township 14 North, 
Range 66 West, of the 6 th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (loc ated north of Dell 
Range Boulevard west of Whitney Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. 
Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the ‘Cruise the Legend’ event held in Cheyenne – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. 
Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White) 
   
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Fire & Rescue 
Department and Stitches Acute Care Center to provide occupational medical exams (2019-2022 
1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $65,000.00). 
(#7304) 
 
 Sponsorship Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Spradley Barr Toyota for the 
2021-2022 Performing Arts Series, Family Film Series  Presenting Sponsor, Sponsor of the 
Cheyenne Civic Center audio control desk and as an Art Access Sponsor (revenue to the city).  Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute  
dated March 18, 2021, seconded by  Mr. White.  Mayor Collins clarified the proposed substitute 
details the funding will  go to the Ci vic Center Foundation.  Upon inquiry, Teresa Moore, 
Community Recreation and Events Director, explained funding will go to  the Civic Center 
Foundation as they administer the Art Access Program.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7305)  
 
[CA] Sponsorship Agreement between the City of Cheyenne an d HollyFrontier Cheyenne 
Renewable Diesel Company, LLC, to designate HollyFrontier as the Presenting Sponsor of 
SuperDay 2021, SuperDay Tour de Prairie and SuperDay 5K Walk/Run (revenue to the city) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7306)  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District #1 to provide transportation services for the summer Rec Camp Program.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7307) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Employee On-Boarding Specialties for drug 
screening and alcohol testing services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda). (#7308) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and KLJ Engineering, 
Bismark, ND, for mapping and surveying service s for the City Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Federated Hermes, 
Pittsburgh, PA, for providing Investment Advisory Services – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Development Agreement  between the City of Cheyenne and Whitney Ranch, LLC, a 
Wyoming Limited Liability Corporation, Richfield, MN, to outline the responsibilities of the City 
and the Developer for public infrastructure improvements related to Whitney Ranch 3 rd Filing 
subdivision – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Maintenance Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, the Sweetgrass Owners 
Association and the Sweetgrass Commercial Owners Association, Cheyenne, to outline 
responsibilities for both construction and maintenance of the Greater Cheyenne Greenway as well 
   
as enhanced landscaping constructed within tracts of land owned by the City and for areas within 
the public right-of-way within Sweetgrass, 1st and 2nd Filings – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Post & Associates, 
Cheyenne, for the Employee Assistance Program – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Western Research & 
Development, Ltd., Cheyenne, for design and construction management services of the Nationway 
Reconstruction Project (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7277 between the City of Cheyenne and 4 Quarters 
Excavation and Development, Cheyenne, for the East Cheyenne Community Park, Parking Lot 
and Trailhead Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve in an amount 
not to exceed $8,100.00, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Upon inquiry, clarification was provided on 
the modification amount.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
(#7277) 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-7-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Synergy 
Construction, LLC, for the Happy Jack Landfill Front Entrance and Scale House Project (Solid 
Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed 
$2,537,363.00). (#7309) 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S -10-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group Inc., d/b/a Knife River,  Cheyenne, for the 2021 City Overlay Part 1 Project (Specific 
Purpose Sales Tax).   Mr. Roybal moved to accept the bid in an amount not to exceed 
$2,116,969.90, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Comment was made that multi-million dollar projects 
should be discussed by the entire Governing Body.  Upon inquiry, Wes Bay, Deputy City Engineer, 
explained that although a project may be shorter in distance, it may require additional materials 
and labor to complete. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#7310) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -12-21 for a Contract between the City of Che yenne and S & S 
Builders, LLC, for the Dey Avenue Greenway Connector Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted in an amount not to exceed $273,762.25).  (#7311) 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S -13-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors, Cheyenne, for the 2021 City Overlay Part 2 Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  
Mr. Roybal moved to accept the bid in an amount not to exceed $1,317,698.76, seconded by Mr. 
Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#7312) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-17-21 for furnishing four (4) utility carts for the City of Cheyenne 
Parks Division (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid 
from Colorado Golf & Turf, Littleton, CO, in an amount not to exceed $39,736.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -14-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and P.E.I 
Wyoming, LLC, Casper, WY, for the Capitol Basin – 26th Street Interceptor Storm Sewer 
Extension Project (2015-2018 and 2019-2022 1 % Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
   
 
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Machapuchare 
Inc. d/b/a Durbar Nepalese & Indian Bistro, 3515 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.   Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
[CA] City of Cheyenne Naming and Memorial Policy – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsors – Mr. Cook and Mr. Esquibel) 
 
 Announcement was made of Public Hearing to be held April 12, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and  via electronic conference 
meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute 
§15-1-402 exist for land located northwest of the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and 
Whitney Road.  Mayor expressed appreciation to Civic Center staff, Michael Skinner, PIO Officer, 
and Jennifer McClelland, Executive Assistant to the City Council, for their assistance in u tilizing 
the Civic Center for City Council related meetings during the last 3 months.  Mayor Collins noted 
beginning April 12th, City Council meetings will resume in City Council Chambers.   
 
 Under other business:  
  
 Amber Ash, DDA Executive Director, requested consideration to provide comments 
relating to agenda item #19- Resolution Establishing an Affordable Housing Task Force.  Ms. Ash 
provided information involving a County Commission Impact Study related to  the impact of 
development and how to increase revenue.  She further noted there are challenges that come with 
annexations and that each time land is annexed  it ultimately expands the need for water, sewer 
police and fire services in those areas.  Ms. Ash reported there are areas currently available within 
the City with potential for infill development and in the downtown area there is more of an upfront 
cost for development. Mayor Collins confirmed her request to attend the task force meetings.   
 
 Dr. Aldrich expressed appreciation to first responders, Public Works staff, other city staff 
and contractors who provided tireless efforts during the recent historic blizzard.  It was noted that 
although there is always room for improvement, the first responders and city staff did a tremendous 
job.    
 
 Upon inquiry, Kris Jones, City Clerk, confirmed agenda item #26 (b), which was removed 
from the consent agenda, was discussed and approved as amended by substitute.   
 
 Mayor Collins provided details relating to the recent historic blizzard and  expressed 
appreciation to city staff and the public and thanked them for their patience.  He extended the 
appreciation to contractors, first responders, and the County and WYDOT for their partnership in 
addressing the issues.  Mayor Collins acknowledge d that no matter how many assets you  may 
have, sometimes there are not enough locally when major weather events occur.   
   
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:21 p.m.  
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 31, 2021 