MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2021-04-12 | CLIP_ID: 797 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 797

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 12, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White.   
Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. )  Upon request by Mr.  Segrave, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Cook and Mr. Johnson, agenda item #21 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Upon request by Mr. Cook, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave, agenda 
item #28(b) was removed from the Co nsent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve  remaining 
items, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing  
body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 22, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for land located northwest of the 
intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road. Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development 
Department, explained they received a petition to annex the land, provided information on the 
property and reviewed requirements of compliance with annexation conditions contained in state 
statutes.  Mr. Lloyd explained agenda items #14 & #15 are affiliated with the annexation.  There 
being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins 
closed the hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 5.12.110, Open Container-Sales and 
Consumption-Exceptions, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, 
Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne.  Dominic 
Bravo, Visit Cheyenne President and CEO, spoke about the success of open container events held 
last summer, how the open container program will be an incentive for travel to Cheyenne and 
expressed support for the ordinance generally.  Tom H irsig, President and CEO  of Cheyenne 
Frontier Days, spoke in support of the ordinance from a community pe rspective related to 
downtown open container allowance and expressed concern with striking “malt beverage permits” 
in 5.12.110(B)(3) relating to activities held within Frontier Park.  Mayor Collins explained a 
substitute addressing the concern would be upcoming.  Muriah Kilmer, Freedom’s Edge, spoke in 
   
support of the ordinance stating she believes it promotes a safer drinking environment for people 
to walk around  with a drink  during events  downtown.  Lt.  David Janes, Cheyenne Police 
Department, provided information on calls for service during open container events last year and 
advised he believes the ordinance will assist in the public’s continued trust of the Police 
Department as there will not be a need for minor open container infractions within the parameters 
of the program.   Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to appr ove on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Johnson moved to amend by substitute  dated April 9, 
2021, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Alessandra McCoy Fak elman, Deputy City Attorney,  provided 
information on the proposed substitute noting malt beverag es are no longer stricken in 
5.12.110(B)(3) and that the bulk of changes occur for open containers in the DDA district.  Amber 
Ash, DDA Director, spoke in support of ordinance and provided information on open c ontainer 
events last year adding she believes this will make downtown Cheyenne a destination and will be 
positive for  the ability to onboard downtown events.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body . Upon inquiry, Mr. Johnson provid ed 
information on the open container hours, noting the intent is to include events downtown that may 
have early start times such as Frontier Days pancake breakfasts and parades.  Upon further inquiry, 
Mr. Johnson explained the inclusion of the entire DDA d istrict boundaries in the open container 
program is for possible future businesses that may locate downtown and also to allow 2 businesses 
located in south Cheyenne within the boundaries to participate.  Discussion continued and included 
comments related to concern for consumption in areas where daycare/preschool children may be, 
parking structures and other areas, alcohol consumption during pancake breakfasts and along the 
parade route, support of creating a district for open consumption, the large area co ntained in the 
DDA district boundaries and concern of lack of requirements for allowable plastic cups.  Mr. 
Johnson explained, upon inquiry, that public intoxication can occur regardless of whether or not 
cup size is limited and there is a financial burden on businesses if they are responsible for providing 
branded cups for events.  Further comments included: opinion that open container events from last 
summer didn’t provide a true “pilot program” for the proposed open container program downtown, 
concern wit h consumption in  certain areas in downtown , the large area of the DDA district 
boundaries consisting of  74 blocks, wide range of allowable consumption hours, importance of 
public education related to the ordinance changes and impact on City’s Clean and Safe Crew. Main 
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  (#4351) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB (Community Business) to MUB (Mixed -
Use Business Emphasis) for property generally located at the southwest corner of the intersection 
of McCann Ave. and E. Pershing Blvd.  Chris Lovas, Lovas Engineering, agent for the applicant, 
advised he was available for any questions.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4352) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) 
Section 6.6.3.b.1, Encroachments .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by sub stitute dated March 25, 2021 , 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
   
the governing body.  Main  motion as amended  carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4353) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Whitney Road .  Joe Patterson, Whitney Ranch 
LLC, expressed appreciation to city staff and governing body.  Mr. Patterson reported he submitted 
the proper app lication, has met criteria as outlined in the staff report  and has been working 
diligently with staff on design , functionality and development impact fees .  He noted the 
development agreement is to address concerns for needs of city services in the area and hopes the 
governing body can expand on the document by shifting it to  a city-wide policy by allowing the 
city to recapture certain fees. Mayor  Collins expressed appreciation to Mr. Patterson for his 
willingness to agree to provide impact fees.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. White. Comment was made related to impact fees helping  offset costs and help 
make the annexation affordable and amenable to the community and  appreciation was expressed 
to city staff and Mr. Patterson for the development agreement for impact fees.  It was further noted 
the city has recently contracted with a drainage and storm water engineer to review drainage for 
the project.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4354) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A -2 Agricultural to MR Medium -
Density Residential for land located north of Dell Range Boulevard, west of Whitney Road.  Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4355) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Dell Range Boulevard and east of Griffith Avenue.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. (#4356)  
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MR (Medium -Density Residential) to 
MR (Medium-Density Residential) for property generally located north of Dell Range Boulevard 
and east of Griffith Avenue.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4357) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-2 Agricultural to AG Agricultural for 
land located northwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney 
Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
   
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code 
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Rescinding Footnote 1 in Ordinance No. 4314 
appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various purposes in conducting 
the municipal government of said city and fixing the amount of General and Special Taxes as part 
of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, all for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 
2020, and ending June 30, 2021 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing Cheyenne Fire and Rescue to evaluate all facilities  and 
operations of the Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6134) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing City Staff to initiate, develop, and execute a Property Assessed 
Clean Energy (PACE) Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6135) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Whitney 
Ranch, 3rd Filing, a plat of a portion of the southwest quarter of Section 23, Township 14 North, 
Range 66 West, of the 6 th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Dell 
Range Boulevard west of Whitney Road) .  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by M r. Segrave. 
Concern was expressed involving past unresolved drainage problems that were created by a past 
development.  Comment was made related to  a visit of the development site  with staff, the 
applicant and members of the governing body that assisted in providing a better understanding of 
the proposed development and drainage plan.  It was noted that for the subsequent development of 
the anticipated 4th filing of Whitney Ranch, it is important to make sure drainage off of the 
subdivision is done correctly.  Comments were made regarding importance of a future storm water 
facility and the City’s responsibility to review and make  drainage requirements.  Comment was 
made related to the city previously having a storm water engineer and support was expressed for 
hiring one in the future and for a storm water utility maintenance.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. (#6136) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Supporting the ‘Cruise the Legend’ event held in Cheyenne .  Dr. Rinne 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Members of the governing body expressed support  of 
the event , noted concerns with certain aspects of the event including noise disturbances and 
requested participants and organizers to practice good etiquette including consideration of 
residents living along the cruise route and to participate safely.  Mayor Collins expressed support 
for the resolution echoing the request for participants and organizers to  participate in a safe and 
considerate fashion.  It was reported there was representation from the event at the April 6, 2021 
Public Services C ommittee meeting and organizers are aware of  the need for info rmation to be 
dispersed for safe participation and that an organizer has worked with the Police Department .  
Comment was made that funds are being raised for non-profit organizations  during the event.   
(#6137) 
 
 
   
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department 
of Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Program Grant to provide the local 
match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit Program, as authorized by 4 9 
U.S.C.§5311 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the City of Cheyenne’s Statement of Design Standards, 
Naming, Memorial and Gifting Policy  – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. 
Cook and Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and KLJ Engineering, 
Bismark, ND, for mapping and surveying services for the City Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $29,616.00). (#7319) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Federated Hermes, 
Pittsburgh, PA, for providing Investment Advisory Services.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7320) 
 
[CA] Development Agreement  between the City of Cheyenne and Whitney Ranch, LLC, a 
Wyoming Limited Liability Corporation, Richfield, MN, to outline the responsibilities of the City 
and the Developer for public infrastructure improvements related to Whitney Ranch 3 rd Filing 
subdivision.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7321) 
 
[CA] Maintenance Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, the Sweetgrass Owners 
Association and the Sweetgrass Commercial Owners Association, Cheyenne, to outline 
responsibilities for both construction and maintenance of the Greater Cheyenne Greenway as well 
as enhanced landscaping constructed within tracts of land owned by the City and for areas within 
the public right -of-way within Sweetgrass, 1 st and 2 nd Filings.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7322) 
 
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Post & Associates, 
Cheyenne, for the Employee Assistance Program .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by 
Mr. Esquibel.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated March 23, 2021, seconded by Mr. 
White.  Darrin Hass, Director of H uman Resources, explained the amendment is to put a  dollar 
amount cap on program of $20,000.00.  Motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body.   Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#7323) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Western Research & 
Development, Ltd., Cheyenne, for design and construction management services of the Nationway 
Reconstruction Project (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $72,520.00). (#7324) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Stitches Acute Care 
Center, Cheyenne, for occupational medicine – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
   
[CA] Amendment #1 to City Cont ract #7109 between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming 
Office of Homeland Security extending the term of the grant for the Cheyenne Regional Response 
Team #7 through December 31, 2021  (EMW -2019-SS-00065 Grant) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6837 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental for group 
dental insurance benefits for City employees – referred to Finance Committee.  
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -14-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and P.E.I 
Wyoming, LLC, Casper, WY, for the Capitol Basin – 26th Street Interceptor Storm Sewer 
Extension Project (2015-2018 and 2019 -2022 1 % Sales Tax).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accept bid in an amount not to exceed $3,234,842.94). (#7325) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -19-21 for furnishing concealable body armor for the City of 
Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department (Federal Grants and General Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -20-21 for a Contract between the City of Ch eyenne and Alco 
Fence Co. Inc., Cheyenne, for the fencing and gates for the City of Cheyenne Compost Facility 
Project (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -25-21 for furnishing bituminous asphalt hot mix, tack oil, and 
cold mix on an annual basis, for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019-2022 1 % 
Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-26-21 for furnishing aggregates on an annual basis, for the City 
of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019-2022 1 % Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Transfer of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Redwood 
Saloon, LLC d/b/a/ Redwood Lounge & Package Liquors, 2105 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming (license currently held by Ace Majestic, Inc. d/b/a Redwood Lounge and Package 
Liquors).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 City of Cheyenne Naming and Memorial Policy .  Mr. Cook advised it was brought to his 
attention following the April 6, 2021 Public Services Committee meeting that this item will need 
to be formally adopted by a resolution.  It was recommended that a motion to acknowledge receipt 
be used instead  of the motion to adopt for this particular agenda item  which was used in the 
committee meeting.  Mr. Coo k explained that a resolution to formally adopt the proposed policy 
is on the agenda for referral to the Public Services Committee.  Mr. Cook moved to acknowledge 
receipt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Upon inquiry, City Attorney Michael O’Donnell confirmed the 
suggested motion to acknowledge receipt is appropriate  for th e agenda item.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.   
 
   
 Announcement was made of Public Hearing to be held April 26, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for the City of Cheyenne’s Annual Action Plan Fiscal Year 2021, prepared by the 
Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office. 
 
 Notice of Emergency Procurement.  In accordance with the City of Cheyenne Purchasing 
Policy, an Emergency Procurement has been authorized by Mayor Collins for the emergency 
replacement of the damaged traffic signal at the intersection of East Pershing Boulevard & Logan 
Avenue.  The emergency repairs have been authorized to Casper Electric for $73,250.00.  
 
 Under other business: 
 
 City Clerk Kris Jones advised the following item was being introduced and referred to 
Committee of the Whole to be held on April 21, 2021 in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil 
Avenue:  Resolution setting the City’s priorities for their allocation on the 1% Specific Purpose 
Sales and Use Tax in Laramie County, State of Wyoming, that would be put together by the County 
Attorney for a Special Election to be held on November 2, 2021. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 Dr. Aldrich provided information on a public forum to be held on April 15,  2021 from 6-
7:30 p.m. at the Kiwanis Community House related to proposed city code regarding mobile storage 
units.  Dr. Aldrich further expressed appreciation to  BOPU staff for a recent  tour of the water 
treatment facility. 
 
 Mr. Johnson requested ceasing the use of the phrase “needs vs. wants” relating to education 
and discussion on 6th Penny Ballot projects. 
 
 Mr. White and Mayor Collins expressed appreciation to City staff who have assisted with 
the development of the plan for City Council to reconvene in council chambers after 13 months.  
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:12 p.m.  
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 21, 2021 