MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2021-05-10 | CLIP_ID: 800 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 800

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 10, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel (via 
Zoom), Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. )  Upon re quest by  Dr. Rinne , and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Johnson and Mr. White, agenda item #32 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Mr. Roybal moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 26, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for land located north of Pershing 
Boulevard and west of Christensen Road.   Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development Department, 
explained they received a petition to annex the land, provided information on the property  and 
reviewed requirements of compliance with annexation conditions contained in state statutes.  Mr. 
Lloyd explained agenda items #21 & # 22 are affiliated with the annexation  and s ingle-family 
homes and duplexes are proposed for the area.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Lloyd explained the intersection 
of Pershing & Christensen is currently outside of city limits.  There being no further comments or 
input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for land located east of and adjacent to 
South Greeley Highway [US 85], north of Chalk Bluff Road. Seth Lloyd, Planni ng and 
Development Department, explained they received a petition to annex the land, provided 
information on the property and reviewed requirements of compliance with annexation conditions 
contained in state statutes.  Mr. Lloyd explained agenda items #23 & #24 are affiliated with the 
annexation and advised the land is proposed to be used for industrial purposes.  Upon inquiry, Mr. 
Lloyd explained there are approximately 432 acres that will be annexed between the prior public 
hearing annexation and this one.  Concern was expressed with expanding emergency services to 
annexed areas.  Mr. Lloyd advised Police Department and Fire Department  are asked to review 
annexations and plats and he doesn’t believe there were any comments made, noting however, the 
   
absence of comments doesn’t mean there won’t be any concerns with expanding services.  
Comment was stressed that the city needs to make sure services can be covered  when new areas 
are annexed.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been 
met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for land located southwest of the 
intersection of Br aehill Road, Parkhill Road, and Panorama Drive. Seth Lloyd , Planning and 
Development Department,  explained they received a petition to annex the land, provided 
information on the property and reviewed requirements of compliance with annexation conditions 
contained in state statutes.  Mr. Lloyd explained agenda items #25 & #26 are affiliated with the 
annexation and duplex development is proposed for the area. There being no further comments or 
input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a bar and grill liquor license application filed 
with the City Clerk’s Office for HRARG DH Cheyenne, WY, LLC, d/b/a Dog Haus, 3838 Atkin 
St., Cheyenne Wyoming.  Kris Jones, City Clerk, upon inquiry, confirmed the current owners hold 
a bar and grill liquor license and advised bar and grill liquor licenses are not transferable and this 
request is due to change in ownership.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of 
the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing and referred the application to 
Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a restaurant liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Tres Amigos Incorporated d/b /a Tres Amigos Family Mexican 
Restaurant, 2414 W. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  There being no comments or input and 
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing and referred the 
application to Finance Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road.  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by M r. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
(#4358) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-2 Agricultural to AG Agricultural for 
land located northwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney 
Road.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4359) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code 
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr . White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4360) 
   
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Rescinding Footnote 1 in Ordinance No. 4314 
appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various purposes in conducting 
the municipal government of said city and fixing the amount of General and Special Taxes as part 
of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, all for t he fiscal year beginning July 1, 
2020, and ending June 30, 2021 .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
(#4361) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee 
Schedule.  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, explained this is the annual amendment of 
the fee schedule and provided information on the areas of increase.  Ms. Nemecek reported that 
residential trash and recycling services are subsidizing other services.  She provided details on 
proposed changes which include: removal of 1.5 yard waste containers, removal of acceptance of 
single items at transfer station, increased fee for 1.5 cubic yard container cleaning, increased fee 
for disposition of tires based on weight, and removal of “There is no guarantee the optional yard 
waste collection program will be available upon return” sentence in Note 11.   Ms. Nemecek 
advised that upon request from members of the governing body,  she will work on a media 
campaign for informational purposes for the solid waste program.  Ms. Nemecek provided 
clarification on removal of 1.5 cubic yard waste containers and the increase in cleaning fee of the 
1.5 cubic yard container.  Upon further inquiry, Ms. Nemecek advised over the years they have 
been looking at whether containers are picked up on the street or in an alley and explained that 
pick up location is consistent per  block and/or neighborhood .  Ms. Nemecek exp lained, u pon 
inquiry, that there was a previous increase for the yard waste program of $1.20 so they could invest 
in more equipment , drivers and bins so the program could be expanded, and bins are available . 
She further explained since the program fee increase, money is not being lost on the program, but 
services aren’t being used efficiently as there aren’t enough subscribers.  Additional drivers and 
equipment are being utilized in other areas of the solid waste program for additional pick-ups, etc. 
During discussion related to Colorado taking plastic numbers 1-6, it was noted the expectation is 
plastics recycling overall will decrease, not increase.  Appreciation was expressed to Ms. Nemecek 
for working on the PSA regarding recycling.  Ms. Nemecek provided information on the “Recycle 
Coach” app which can assist customers.  Upon further inquiry related to why plastic recycling isn’t 
expanding, Ms. Nemecek advised  contractors typically are not willing to take a loss due to 
accepting materials they will lo se money on such as plastics .  Ms. Nemecek noted tin cans, 
cardboard and glass provide a positive return, however, to accept glass, they would have to increase 
program fees.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.   Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
increase the total lot coverage of the MD1, MD2, P -CV1, P-CV2, and P-CV3 lot types to 80% .    
Dr. Rinne advised there was no recommendation on the item at the Public Services Committee .  
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Dr. Rinne reported 
concerns were raised during the Public Services Committee that although the proposal is to allow 
greater building coverage in those lot types, it would leave a negative effect relating to decreased 
landscaping requirements.  Comment was made that caution was raised by the Board of Public 
Utilities relating to water usage concerns involving landscaping water requirements.  Additional 
   
concerns were raised in areas relating to landscaping, primarily trees, which have died due to lack 
of maintenance in areas such as around the airport terminal.  Comments were made that developers 
follow landscaping requirements when  properties are developed, but those green areas  are not 
maintained after completion.  Concerns were raised  related to management and enforcement of 
landscaping requirements and request was made to take this o pportunity to look at  the current 
landscaping code for possible revisions.   Mayor Collins advised staff is currently working with 
property owners on possible improvements.  It was further advised  each development will be  
required to resize runoff facilities to accommodate terrain changes involving landscaping.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. 
Laybourn and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.   
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating Chapter 8.29, Hood System Cleaning 
Companies, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. Division 
Chief Byron Mathews, Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department, reported the  creation of  the 
ordinance is for hood cleaning contractors to ensure that those contractors who clean hood systems 
are properly licensed, insured and trained.  Mr. Mathews advised this ordinance m irrors the fire 
extinguisher business licensing requirement.  Mr. Mathews, upon inquiry, provided information 
on a recent incident where an individual who did not have proper training provided services to a 
local restaurant  and the restaurant equipment was left at high risk for catching  fire and food 
contamination.  Mr. Matthews explained that  with approval of the ordinance, the fire department 
will know who is providing service s and can make sure they are qualified. He reported last year 
there were approximately 10 instances where hood  systems were  not properly maintained or 
cleaned.  It was noted that the ordinance was drafted at the request and in consultation with local 
HVAC and knowledgeable hood cleaning contractors.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 5.12.030, Licenses and Permits -
Types, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and 
Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Repealing Chapter 2.52, Personnel Commission, and 
creating a new Chapter 2.52, Personnel System, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – 
Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave) 
 
   
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Repealing Chapter 2.92, Personnel System, and creating 
a new Chapter 2.92, Administrative Hearing Procedure, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, 
of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors 
– Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Granting a non -exclusive franchise to Visionary 
Communications, Inc., within the rights -of-way of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to align 
the UDC fee schedule with the fee adoption practices of the City – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Pershing Boulevard, west of Christensen Road – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential 
to MR Medium -Density Residential for land located north of Pershing Boulevard, west of 
Christensen Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of and including South Greeley Highway (US 85), north of Chalk Bluff Road – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A -2 Agricultural to AG Agricultural, 
LI Light Industrial, and HI Heavy Industrial for land located east of South Greeley Highway (US 
85), north of Chalk Bluff Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located southwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, Parkhill Road, and Panorama Driv e – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultural Residential to MR 
Medium-Density Residentia l for land located southwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, 
Parkhill Road, and Panorama Drive – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. 
Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer rates, 
tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and septic 
and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
   
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2021 and ending June 30, 2022 – referred 
to Committee of the Whole. Sponsor – Mr. White) 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plan 2021, prepared by 
the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6141) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in the submission of 
an application for federal assistance to the Federal Aviation Administration under the Coronavirus 
Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2021 to assist in funding costs related 
to operations, cleaning, sanitization, janitorial services, combating the spread of pathogens at the 
airport, and debt service payments. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6142) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in the submission of 
an application for federal assistance to the Federal Aviation Administration for ‘Design and 
Bidding Services for the Reconstruction Runway 9/27 (Phase III) Project’.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6143) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing City staff to plan and execute the completion of the 17th Street 
Lighting Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Amber Ash, DDA  Executive Director, spoke in 
support of the resolution and reported there are currently 3 blocks starting on Central Ave. and the 
Dinneen block that are finished with 1 additional block that needs to be completed.  Ms. Ash 
provided additional information on the project  and commented on the impor tance of completing 
the project noting it is an attraction in downtown.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. 
Aldrich.  Comments were made in support of completing the project.  Upon inquiry regarding 
project funding, Mr. Segrave reported there were leftover funds from the 2012 6th Penny sales tax 
and overages that will be used for the project in the amount of $35,000.00.  Information was 
provided regarding future maintenance funding and bulb replacement.  Discussion include d 
concerns involving maintenance of the decorative band of concrete in the blocks between Warren 
Avenue and Carey Avenue and sidewalk issues in the area.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#6144) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Recognizing the historical interest and value of the Cheyenne Auxiliary 
Pumping Station located at 1504 Dillon Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and directing the City of 
Cheyenne to proceed with the steps necessary to protect and enhance this histor ic structure .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6145) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Rescinding Resolution No. 6023 which establishes that all revenue from 
City Contract No. 5902 be split evenly between the City of Cheyenne Solid Waste Enterprise Fund, 
the Board of Public Utilities, and the newly established Belvoir Ranch Recreation Special Revenue 
Fund – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Downtown Development Authority (DDA) to generate 
revenue for general operating funds – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Johnson, 
Mr. Roybal and Mr. White) 
 
[CA] Cable Franchise Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Clarity 
Telecom, LLC.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7336) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc., for the use of city-owned land and buildings for parking, camping, and other activities 
during the 2021 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebration – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Artist Guild, Inc., for 
the Van Tassell Carriage House located at 1701 Morrie Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -15-21 for a Co ntract between the City of Cheyenne and Craig 
Construction Services LLC, Laramie, WY, for the Michael Drive Sidewalk Project (2019-2022 
1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $43,311.25). 
(#7337) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -16-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Craig 
Construction Services LLC, Laramie, WY, for the Cheyenne Aquatics Center Main Pool Diving 
Boards Removal and Replacement (Specific Purpose Sales Tax, Laramie County Recreation Board 
Grant and Miscellaneous Non Federal Grants) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $62,230.00). (#7338) 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-17-21 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Streamline 
Markings, Inc., Billings, MT, for the 2021 Epoxy Striping Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).   
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exce ed $172,073.00).  
(#7339) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -21-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2020 -2021 front end wheel 
loader mounted, two stage blower for the City of Cheyenne, Street and Alley Division (2019-2022 
1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) c arried (accepted bid from Power Equipment 
Company, Casper, WY, in an amount not to exceed $121,694.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-22-21 for furnishing one (1) ¾ ton crew cab truck for the Traffic 
Division, one (1) ¾ ton regular cab truck for the City of Cheyenne Facilities Maintenance Division 
and three (3) ¾ ton crew cab trucks for the City of Cheyenne, Street and Alley Division (2015-
2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Rocky Mountain 
Yeti, Casper, WY, in an amount not to exceed $222,437.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -23-21 for furnishing two (2) new 2020 to 2021 mid -size SUVs 
for the City of Cheyenne, Public Works Department and Sanitation Department (2015-2018 and 
   
2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Conse nt Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Spradley 
Barr Motors, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $60,936.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -24-21 for furnishing one (1) 2021 -2022 mid-size pick-up truck 
for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Department and one (1) 2021-2022 mid-size pickup truck for 
the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events Department  (2015-2018 % Sales Tax).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, in an 
amount not to exceed $75,096.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -27-21 for furnishing four (4) new Kubota RTV -X1100C utility 
vehicles for the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation & Events Department (2015-2018 1% 
Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Heartland Kubota, LLC, 
Sheridan, WY, in an amount not to exceed $134,651.22). 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between t he City of Cheyenne, and Wyoming Machinery 
Company, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to replace the undercarriage, track shoes, and related components 
on a Caterpillar D5K Dozer (City Block #5901) (Fleet Maintenance Fund – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 Appointment of Jesse Naiman to the Building Code Board of Appeals.  Mr. Segrave moved 
to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointment). 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of Public Hearing to be held May 24, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a retail liquor license transfer of location application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for Poor Richard’s, from 2233 E. Lincolnway to 1808 O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming.     
 
 Announcement was made of Public Hearing to be held May 24, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a retail liquor license  transfer of ownership application filed with the City Clerk’s 
Office for ARCHCO Albany, LLC d/b/a Albany Restaurant, Bar, and Package Liquor, 1506 
Capitol Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by Albany, Inc. d/b/a Albany 
Restaurant, Bar and Liquormart). 
 
 Announcement was made of Public Hearing to be held May 24, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. in C ity 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Capitol 
Cuisine LLC d/b/a Ike’s Bar & Grill, 122 West 6th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
 
 Mayor Collins noted 2 additional agenda items  to be introduced and referred to Finance 
Committee and requested the City Clerk read them into the record: 
 
   
 Payment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield to provide 
a rebate payment to the City of Cheyenne in the amount $275,000.00 for group health insurance 
benefits for City employees – referred to Finance Committee  
 
Renewal of Contract #6836 between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield for 
group health insurance benefits for City employees – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Under other business: 
 
  Mr. Johnson advised 102 trees will be planted on Saturday, May 15 th for the Rooted in 
Cheyenne tree canopy .  The organization is looking to reoffer volunteering opportunities in 
September. 
 
 Mayor Collins noted a City clean -up will also be happening on S aturday, May 15 th in 
conjunction with the Cheyenne Day of Giving annual event. 
 
 Mr. Segrave expressed appre ciation to Jason  Sanchez and Teresa  Moore related to the 
return of Friday’s on the Plaza. 
 
 Dr. Aldrich provided information on the upcoming Ward III City Council and Coffee Open 
House event on Saturday, May 15th at the east Dazbog Coffee. 
  
  There being no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:05 p.m.  
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  May 19, 2021 