MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2021-06-14 | CLIP_ID: 803 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 803

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 14, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel (via 
Zoom), Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave  and Jeff 
White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be  no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda ).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing.   
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 24, 2021 .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and 
Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2022.  There being no comments or input and purpose of 
the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing.   
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist fo r land located northeast of the 
intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road.   Seth Lloyd, Planning & Development 
Department, provided a staff report and advised the area sought to be annexed contains 18 acres 
of land to be known as Meadowlark  Estates for mixed use development of commercial and 
residential dwellings.  Mr. Lloyd provided details relating to compliance of annexation criteria.  
There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor 
Collins closed the hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 5.12.030, Licenses and Permits -
Types, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and 
Regulations, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal move d to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. (#4365) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming  (delivery).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, 
   
seconded by Mr. Segrave .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governi ng body 
with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  (#4366) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyo ming (restaurant). Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third & final reading, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body . 
(#4367)    
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Repealing Chapter 2.52, Personnel Commission, and 
creating a new Chapter 2.52, Personnel System, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the 
Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Seth Lloyd , CPEA Board Member, advised that 
although there are concerns that still remain with the proposed changes to Chapt er 2.52 and 
Chapter 2.92, members of the CPEA support the proposed substitutes.  Dr. Rinne moved to 
approve on third and final reading , seconded by Mr. White.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by 
substitute dated June 2, 2021, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  V oting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Esquibel voting “no”. (#4368) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Repealing Chapter 2.92, Personnel System, and creating 
a new Chapter 2.92, Administrative Hearing Procedure, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, 
of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.   Dr Rinne moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  D r. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated June 2, 2021, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Mr. Esquibel voting “no”.  (#4369) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Granting a non -exclusive franchise to Visionary 
Communications, Inc., within the rights-of-way of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.    Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich .  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4370) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
align the UDC fee schedule with the fee adoption practices of the City.  Dr. Rinne moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4371) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Pershing Boulevard, west of Christensen Road.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. (#4372) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential 
to MR Medium -Density Residential for land located north of Pershing Boulevard, west of 
   
Christensen Road.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4373)   
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of and including South Greeley Highway (US 85), north of Chalk Bluff Road.    Betsey 
Hale, Cheyenne Leads, expressed support  and appreciation to city staff for their efforts on the 
proposed annexation.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  
Segrave.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated June 3, 2021, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body .    Main motion as amended 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4374) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A -2 Agricultural to AG Agricultural, 
LI Light Industrial, and HI Heavy Industrial for land located east of South Greeley Highway (US 
85), north of Chalk Bluff Road.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4375) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located southwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, Parkhill Road, and Pan orama Drive. Seth 
Lloyd, Planning and Development Department , provided an update and explained the applicant 
has experienced a delay in receiving approval from Laramie County relating to the legal 
description of the property and request ed a postponement to allow the applicant time to obtain 
approval from the County.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to June 28, 2021, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion to 
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.     
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultural Residential to MR 
Medium-Density Residential for land located sou thwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, 
Parkhill Road, and Panorama Drive.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Dr. Rinne  moved to postpone to June 28, 2021, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.     
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities.  Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White .  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4376)     
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2021 and ending June 30, 2022.  Mr. White 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mr. White moved to 
amend by substitute dated June 10, 2021, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Charles Bloom, Planning and 
   
Development Director, explained that following discussion with the Compliance Director, it was 
determined the proposed code enforcement officer position should be moved to the Compliance 
Division rather than the Planning and Development Department .  Upon inquiry, Mr. Bloom 
reported the code enforcement officer would primarily perform enforcement duties relating to 
violations of the Unified Development Code (UDC) but may also assist in other code enforcement 
duties as necessary.  It was noted that upon approval, the position will be posted and filled when a 
suitable candidate has been identified.  Mr. White moved to amend the amendment by removing 
the position from the Planning and Development Department and placing it in the Compliance 
Division’s budget, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend the substitute carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Motion to amend by substitute as amended carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Discussion included concern wi th refilling 
positions that were a part of the fiscal year 2020 reduction in force, noting uncertainty with the 
city’s financial future.  Concern was voiced regarding management and enforcement of UDC and 
City Code requirements.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#4377) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating a new Chapter 2.80, Urban Renewal Authority, 
of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.    
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
create the Urban Use Overlay District.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.    
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating Section 13.04.141, Fee Assessment on Gross 
Revenues, of Chapter 13.04, Board of Public Utilities, of Title 13, Public Utilities Generally, of 
the Code of the City of Che yenne, Wyoming .  Brad Brooks , BOPU Director,  requested 
clarification on a minor language correction involving the ordinance entitlement.  Mayor Collins 
confirmed the corrections are anticipated to be considered through a substitute ordinance.    Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
amend by substitute dated June 2, 2021, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.   
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northeast of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (SPONSOR – DR. RINNE)   
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING –  Amending the Official  Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MU Mixed Use and County LR Low 
Density Residential to CB Community Business, LR Low-Density Residential, and MR Medium-
Density Residential for land located northeast of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range 
Boulevard, west of Whitney Road  – referred to Public Services Committee. (SPONSOR – DR. 
RINNE)    
   
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating a new Section 8.60.210, Liens, of Chapter 8.60, 
Nuisances, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred 
to Finance Committee (SPONSOR – MR. LAYBOURN)   
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating a new Section 12.04.240, Liens, of Chapter 
12.04, Streets, Sidewalks, and Driveways Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public 
Places, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee  
(SPONSOR – MR. LAYBOURN)    
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating a new Section 15.24.030, Liens, of Chapter 
15.24, Dangerous Building Code, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee (SPONSOR – MR. LAYBOURN)   
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.04, Business 
Licenses Generally, of Tit le 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee (SPONSOR – MR. SEGRAVE 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.52, Massage 
Establishments, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. SEGRAVE)   
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 8.60, Nuisances, 
of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance 
Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. SEGRAVE)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the 
fiscal year beginning July 1, 2021 and ending June 30, 2022.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6148) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2021 and ending June 30, 2022. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6149) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts in the 
amount of $16,953.97 pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16-4-502 (BOPU uncollectible debts).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6150) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Saddle 
Ridge, 16th Filing, a plat of a portion of  Section 25, Township 14 North, Range 66 West, of the 
6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, W yoming (located north of Pershing Boulevard, west of 
Christensen Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6151) 
 
 
 
   
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Bison 
Business Park, 2nd Filing, a plat of a portion of  Sections 32 and 33, Township 13 North, Range 66 
West, of the 6 th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of South Greeley  
Highway [US 85], north of Chalk Bluff Road).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6152) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution Nos. 5934 and 5998 pertaining to adoption of a 
revised Cheyenne-Laramie County Board of Health Fee Schedule for inspection services, permit 
fees, and other various services – referred to Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. WHITE)       
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the filing of an application with the Federal Transit 
Administration for federal transportation assistance authorized by Title 49, United States Code, 
Section 5339 – referred to Finance Committee.  (SPONSOR – MR. ROYBAL)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Accepting a grant in the amount of $318,375.00 from the Corporation 
for National and Community Service for the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, 
Foster Grandparent Program – referred to Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. ROYBAL)    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15-9-106 Finding and Declaring Parts of 
the City of Cheyenne as Blight and authorizing the redevelopment thereof – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. SEGRAVE) 
 
[CA]  Preliminary Plat for Meadowlark Estates, 2 nd Filing, a replat of Tract 1 and a portion of 
Tracts 2 -9 of Meadowlark Estates, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the 
intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA]  Preliminary Plat for The View, a replat of Tract 1, Park Estates, 4th Filing and Lot 20, Block 
4, Park Estates, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, 
Parkhill Road, and Panorama Drive – referred to Public Services Committee.                
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WJE, LLC, Cheyenne, WY, for 
development fees for Saddle Ridge 16 th Filing, final plat. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  
(#7349) 
 
[CA] Industrial and Economic Development Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events Department, 
and Brian Chalstrom D/B/A Putt Hutt, for premises used as a miniature golf course in Lions Park.  
(Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Casper, Wyomin g, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for extraterritorial law enforcement assistance – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
   
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Laramie, Wyoming, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for extraterritorial law enfor cement assistance  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Douglas, Wyoming, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for extraterritorial law enforcement assistance  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Torrington, Wyoming, and the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, for extraterritorial law enforcement assistance – referred to Finance 
Committee.  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the Town of Hulett, Wyoming, and the Ci ty of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for extraterritorial law enforcement assistance  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Johnson County, Wyoming, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for extraterritorial law enforcement assistance – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] City Contract No. 150, Notice of Renewal of Lease Number 57 -82HW-1-0171 from the 
United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, to lease the High Plains 
Grasslands Research Station. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#150) 
 
 Contract modification #1 to Contract #7256 between the City of Cheyenne and Dan Hart 
Patrol Service, LLC, for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1, 2 and 3 Excavation Earthworks 
project for additional liner & shipping cost for the leachate trench (Solid Waste Fund).  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $310,000.00, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7256)  
 
 Contract modification #2 to Contract #7258 between the City of Cheyenne and Northwest 
Linings & Geotextile Products Inc., for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1, 2 and 3 
Excavation Earthworks project for a force majeure cost increase for unprecedented condition in 
the polypropylene and resin market (Solid Waste Fund) . Mr. Roybal moved to approve in an 
amount not to exceed $77,861.52, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#7258)   
 
[CA] Contract modification #1 to Contract #7319 between the City of Cheyenne and KL J 
Engineering for mapping and surveying services for the Landfill and Compost Facility.  (Solid 
Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract amendment #1 to Contract #7239 between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Metropolitan Planning Organization, and Summit Engineering for the East Park Greenway 
Underpass and Drainage Plan.  (MPO Federal Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
   
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -19-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Ameri -
Tech HVAC Services, Inc., for the HVAC and Mechanical Systems Maintenance Project.  (Civic 
Center Fund, Fleet Maintenance Fund, General Fund, Solid Waste Fund, Ice & Events Center 
Fund, Special Purpose Option Tax and 1% Sales Tax 2019-2022) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -28-21 for furnishing three (3) new 2021 -2022 cab and chassis 
(low cab forward/cabover) with 40-yard front loader refuse collection body installed, for the City 
of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -29-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 twin-screw diesel 
powered cab and chassis, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division  (Solid Waste Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -30-21 for furnishi ng three (3) new current in production 2021 -
2022 solid waste transfer trailers, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -31-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 front  end wheel 
loader with less than 10 hours (Transfer Station), for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division 
(Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -32-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 front end wheel 
loader with less than 10 hours (Compost Facility), for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division 
(Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -33-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 portable trommel 
compost, topsoil screen plant, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation/Compost Division (Solid Waste 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -34-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 horizontal mobile 
wood waste grinder, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanita tion/Compost Division (Solid Waste Fund) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -36-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 1 ton, regular cab, 
full size pickup truck, with plow, for the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events 
Department (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -38-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 15 passenger van, 
for the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events Department (2015 -2018 1% Sales 
Tax and Insurance Claims) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and CenturyLink, Littleton, CO, 
to relocate CenturyLink owned fiber optic utilities in preparation for an upcoming construction 
project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
   
[CA] Retail liquor license transfer of location application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for 
Poor Richard’s, from 2233 E. Lincolnway to  1808 O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming.    Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Retail liquor license  transfer of ownership application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for ARCHCO Albany, LLC d/b/a Albany Restaurant, Bar, and Package Liquor, 1506 Capitol Ave., 
Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by Albany, Inc. d/b/a Albany Restaurant, Bar and 
Liquormart).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Capitol 
Cuisine LLC d/b/a Ike’s Bar & Grill, 122 West 6th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. 
 
  No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the July 15, 2021 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Summer Convention Business 
Meeting to be held in Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Announcement was made  that a Calcutta, benefitting bona fide charities , will  be held 
Thursday, June 17, 2021 beginning at 6:00 p.m. at Alf’s Pub, 1622 E. 19 th Street, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, in conjunction with the USSSA 2021 Randy Weiss 36 Hour Softball Tournament (10% 
of proceeds go to bona fide charities).           
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Mr. White expressed appreciation to Jeanne Vetter, Greenway and Parks Planner, and Mr. 
Laybourn for all their work on the Greenway over the years and  for the recent celebration held 
marking the 30-year anniversary of the Greenway.      
 
 Mr. Segrave expressed appreciation to City Directors and Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, 
for the hard work and informative dialog involving the budget approval process.   
 
 Mr. Johnson expressed appreciation to Jason Sanchez, Deputy Community Recreation and 
Events Director, for his efforts in making sure the splash pad is safe and ready for use.  He provided 
information relating to the efforts and importance of regulation of use specifically during Fridays 
on the Plaza.    
 
 Dr. Aldrich announced Council members from Ward II I will be holding a Council and 
Coffee event on Saturday, June 19 th at Dazbog Coffee from 9 -11 a.m. 3911 E. Pershing  Blvd., 
Suite A.   
 
 Mayor Collins expressed appreciation to city staff for their efforts and work during the 
budget process.      
  
   
  There being no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:51 p.m.  
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
   
 