MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2021-06-28 | CLIP_ID: 805 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 805

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 28, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, C OUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook , Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave  and Jeff White.  
Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motio n.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda ).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 14, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –EMERGENCY READING – Amending Section 10.80, Bicycles, of Title 
10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave). 
Mayor Collins advised that the City Attorney reported a large vendor of electronic scooters (e-
scooters) has plans to locate here beginning in July and has requested emergency approval of 3 
ordinances in order to provide for appropriate licensing and enforcement regulations prior to their 
arrival.  Michael O’Donnell, City Attorney, explained there are 3 proposed ordinances related to 
e-scooter and e-bicycle legislation.  He noted there are currently e-scooters operating in the city 
and it is anticipated there will be more companies coming to Cheyenne.  Mr. O’Donnell advised 
the ordinances focus on public safety particularly  noting the upcoming Cheyenne Frontier Days 
(CFD) event.  Upon request, Mr. O’Donnell reported on this agenda item and the 2 affiliated 
ordinances and advised this ordinance amends City Code Section 10.80 and i s a modification of 
the existing bicycle ordinance and includes definitions for e -scooters and related devices.  He 
advised Chapter 10.82 creates a regulatory structure for the devices that are for hire only, noting it 
specifically excludes the DDA Re-Ride Program.  He further reported it sets up the structure for a 
business license and fees, a series of requirements for how the business shall be run, insurance and 
indemnification requirements, suspension and revocation provisions that are established within the 
City Code administrative hearing process and public education required.  He noted e nforcement 
occurs through the Police Department, City Clerk, Compliance Division and occasionally through 
the Planning & Development Department.  It was further advised there are anticipated amendments 
to Chapter 10.82.  Mr. O’Donnell provided highlights of the proposed Indemnification Agreement 
which was reviewed by Bird Rides, Inc., a large operator planning to operate in Cheyenne, noting 
there are significant insurance and indemnification requirements.   Mr. O’Donnell explained 
amendments to Chapter 5.04 include adding the license in the business license section of the City 
   
Code.  Mayor Collins provided information relating to approval on Emergency Reading and 
explained a motion to suspend the rules is required, noting a three-quarters affirmative vote (8 out 
of 10 members of the Governing Body) is required to proceed for  emergency approval.  Mayor 
Collins advised if the motion to suspend the rules fails, the ite m would be referred to the Finance 
Committee for a recommendation.  Mr. White moved to suspend the rules and hear this ordinance 
as an emergency ordinance pursuant to Wyoming State Statute 15 -1-115(c), seconded by Mr.  
Roybal.  During public comment, Jeremiah Mahoney spoke in support of approving regulations 
prior to an influx of scooters being utilized by citizens.  Michael Covato, Bird Rides, Inc., Territory 
Manager, expressed enthusiasm for the opportunity to  locate in Cheye nne.  Upon inquiry, Mr. 
Covato advised the company has been internally assessing operations in Cheyenne over the last 
year and did outreach earlier this year, however formal conversations began several weeks ago.  It 
was noted from members of the Governing  Body that although there is excitement for the 
operation, th e emergency ordinance regulatory process  seems rushed and additional time to 
research and make appropriate decisions  is preferred .  Upon inquiry, Mr. Covato provided 
operations expectations and i nformation relating to CFD events , seasonal operations, and local 
management.  Mr. Covato expressed the desire to p artner with local members of the community 
to hire a local Fleet Manager.  Comments were made related to  time frame for scooters to arrive 
and time necessary to prepare required licensing and insurance provisions.  Upon further inquiry, 
Mr. Covato provided information on the number of e -scooters the company plans to start with  
locally which will be monitored for potential increases.  It was advised that geofencing regulations 
and limitations would be enforced, noting changing the area of the geofence is a simple process.  
Mr. O’Donnell noted the anticipated amendment defines geofencing that allows for flexibility at 
the discretion of the director, noting the director will work with companies to determine what those 
requirements should be.  Hamilton Byrd, local concert promoter, reported he and his partner have 
recently launched Bandwagon e-scooters in the community and they have been working with the 
Downtown Development Authority ( DDA) and the Metropolitan Planning Organization ( MPO) 
for several months.  Mr. Byrd reported the top speed of a scooter is limited to 20 kilometers per 
hour, helmets are suggested  and currently they have 32 e-scooters in operation.  He advised the 
MPO provided them with suggested geofencing requirements and noted the age minimum is 16 
for operation.  He further advised upon inquiry, that he supports regulations and will work with 
the city to become compliant  and confirmed alteration of geofencing is easily obtained.  Jenny 
Clough expressed s afety concerns  for riders and pedestrians  related to street and sidewalk 
conditions.  Ms. Clough voiced s upport of e-scooters but cautioned operations during C FD.   
Motion (to suspend the rules) carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  City Clerk Kris Jones read the ordinance entitlement into 
record upon request of Mayor Collins.  Upon inquiry, City Clerk Kris Jones explained that under 
the emergency ordinance procedure, a three-quarters affirmative vote (8 out of 10 members of the 
Governing Body) in order for the ordinance to pass.  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by 
Mr. White.  It was noted by m embers of the governing body that the issues brought up by Ms. 
Clough demonstrates the need for requirements to be addressed immediately and that other cities 
have had to ban scooters as businesses came in without regulations in place.  Additional comments 
were made in support of efforts by the attorney’s office and support was voiced for the e-scooters 
but concern was expressed related to the  fast paced approval of the ordinances.  Mayor Collins 
noted occasionally the need arises for  approval of emergency procedures.    Upon inquiry, Mr. 
O’Donnell reported an ordinance exists that addresses skateboards in the Central Business District 
   
(CBD).  It was noted that in the future e lectric unicycle s will be considered for inclusion of 
regulations set forth within the affiliated ordinances.  Mayor Collins and Mr. O’Donnell confirmed 
that these vehicles would be allowed to operate on the greenway as  they are categorized by state 
statute as non-motorized due to engine size. Mot ion carried.  Voti ng “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  (#4378)  
 
 ORDINANCE –EMERGENCY R EADING – Creating a new Chapter 10.82, Motor -
Assisted Scooters, Electric Bicycles, and Bicycles Equipped with GPS, of Title 10, Vehicles and 
Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave).  Mr.  White 
moved to suspend the rules and he ar this ordinance as an emergency ordinance pursuant to 
Wyoming State Statute 15-1-115(c), seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to appro ve, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mr. O’Donnell read into record the following 
proposed amendments:  Section 10.82.020-Definitions and Exclusions-addition of “Geofencing” 
means the use of a virtual perimeter in which the use of a dockless vehicle is either res tricted or 
the speed of the dockless vehicle is reduced when in use; 10.82.050-Dockless Vehicle Operations-
F-Notices of violations or broken or inoperable dockless vehicles: 1.  License holders shall have 
two hours after receiving notice of a violation , and 10.85.050(I):  License holders shall adhere to 
geofencing requirements, as determined and at the discretion of the director.  Mr. Segrave moved 
to amend by referenced language changes provided by Mr. O’Donnell, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Upon inquiry, Mr. O’Donnell provided enforcement processes and confirmed the city would work 
within the spirit of the law for enforcement efforts.  M otion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” - all 
members of the governing body.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to July 12, 2021, seconded by Mr. 
Cook.  Support and  opposition was expressed for t he proposed postponement.  Jillian Harris, 
Transportation Planner for MPO, provided details on the history of efforts to implement legislation 
for regulations which began in February 2021.  Ms. Harris advised that introduction of e-scooters 
was inevitable and that the MPO has taken necessary steps to work with city staff and e-scooter 
operators to  protect the citizens.  Ms. Harris  explained the MPO had been working with the 
Bandwagon providers and Bird Rides, Inc. contacted the MPO in March and presented a 
memorandum of understanding ( MOU) which was catalyst to move th e legislation as quickly as 
possible in the best interest of the community from a public safety standpoint.  Michael Covato, 
Bird Rides, Inc., advised there are planning logistics that can’t be done until an ordinance outlining 
regulations is in effect, voicing opposition to  the postponement.  Kris Jones, City Clerk, upon 
inquiry, advised staff has been working on ordinance details including the business license 
component, noting final document details will require additional adjustments pushing 
implementation further out if postponed.  Mr. O’Donnell shared that coordination with insurance 
companies requires time to assure all requirements are in place, noting that a delay would most 
likely result in missing the timeline of being ready prior to CFD.  Mr. Johnson noted for the record 
he opposes rushed approval which denies the public opportunity to participate.  Mr. O’Donnell 
reported future ordinance amendments can take place after approval through the regular council 
approval process, noting the importance of having regulations in place prior to implementation of 
e-scooters in the community.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “yes” - Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson 
and Dr. Rinne.  Voting “no”  - Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. 
Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  M r. O’Donnell reported that the Indemnification and 
Insurance provisions will be finalized by staff, can be adjusted when necessary, and are not a part 
   
of the ordinance but are referenced in the ordinance.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by capping the 
number of e -scooters to a total of 80, seconded by seconded by Mr. Cook .  It was noted that 
Bandwagon already has 32 e-scooters active and that limiting the amount could raise legal concern 
with regard to restraint of trade.  Comments were made in support and  in opposition of the 
proposed amendment, and support was voiced for a free market approach.  Mr. O’Donnell voiced 
concern with a first come first serve environment  limiting those who can apply for a license to 
operate.  Tom Mason , MPO D irector, advised that w ithout rules and regulations in place , the 
program should be restricted to a pilot program  and that he anticipates use of e -scooters as mode 
of transportation, noting 80 scooters isn’t sufficient for that purpose.  Additional comments were 
made in support of letting the mar ketplace and company expertise determine the number  of e-
scooters the community needs.  Boyd Wiggam voiced opposition to capping the e-scooter amount 
and cautioned against restraint of trade noting he believes a cap would be detrimental in allowing 
this as a transportation type in the community .  He further voiced  support of e-scooters in the 
community.  Additional detailed comments were made in support and  in opposition of capping 
fleet numbers, free trade/market concept, restraint of trade, public safety concerns and uncharted 
territory relating to e -scooters.   Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne voting “yes”.   Main motion as 
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. 
Johnson voting “no”.  (#4379) 
 
 ORDINANCE –EMERGENCY R EADING – Amending Section 5.04.030, Types of 
Businesses, Activities and Events, of Chapter 5.04 , Business Licenses Generally, and creating a 
new Section 5.08.155, Motor -Assisted Scooters, Electric Bicycles and Bicycles Equipped with 
GPS, of Chapter 5.08, Business License Fees, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of 
the Code of the City of Cheyenne (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave).  Mr. White moved to suspend the rules 
and hear this ordinance as an emergency ordinance pursuant to Wyoming State Statute 15 -1-
115(c), seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Cook and Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#4380) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located southwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, Parkhill Road, and Panorama Drive 
(Postponed from June 14, 2021).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to 
July 12, 2021, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultural Residential to MR 
Medium-Density Residential for land located southwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, 
Parkhill Road, and Panorama Drive (Postponed from June 14, 2021).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to July 12, 
2021, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
   
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating a new Chapter 2.80, Urban Renewal Authority, 
of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Supportive comments 
were made by members of the Governing Body to Mayor Collins and city staff for their efforts on 
the ordinance.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4381) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
create the Urban Use Overlay District .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Appreciation was expressed to the Planning & Development Department 
on their efforts and it was noted this  ordinance would ease requirements for development in the 
west edge area.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4382) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating Section 13.04.141, Fee Assessment on Gross 
Revenues, of Chapter 13.04, Board of Public Utilities, of Title 13, Public Utilities Generally, of 
the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Laybourn 
voting “no”.  (#4383)   
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northeast of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road .  
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING –  Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MU Mixed Use and County LR Low 
Density Residential to CB Community Business, LR Low-Density Residential, and MR Medium-
Density Residential for land located northeast of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range 
Boulevard, west of Whitney Road.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated June 16, 2 021, seconded by Mr.  
Segrave.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main 
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating a new Section 8.60.210, Liens, of Chapter 8.60, 
Nuisances, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Upon 
inquiry, Mr. O’Donnell provided clarification that the city would take priority of all liens except 
prior tax or assessment lien s, noting the purpose is intended to place city liens on high priority.  
Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading , seconded by Mr.  Laybourn.  Supportive 
comments were voiced, and it was noted this action is necessary to act responsibly in certain 
situations the city faces regarding public health and safety issues.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
 
   
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating a new Section 12.04.240, Liens, of Chapter 
12.04, Streets, Sidewalks, and Driveways Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public 
Places, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr.  Laybourn.  Comments were voiced regarding widespread damage and 
issues with streets, sidewalks and driveways  that need addressed.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating a new Section 15.24.030, Liens, of Chapter 
15.24, Dangerous Building Code, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyomin g.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
White.  Upon inquiry, Mr. O’Donnell provided information on removal of a  dangerous building 
near the municipal building and the city is currently in litigation to recoup the expense of removal.  
He further explained the intent of the proposed lien ordinances are to allow the city to be first in 
line to recoup expenses.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.04, Business 
Licenses Generally, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  
Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.52, Massage 
Establishments, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  
Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 8.60, Nuisan ces, 
of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of the S½ of Section 35, and a portion of the SW¼ of Section 36, T14N, R67W, Laramie County, 
Wyoming generally located southwest of Interstate 25 and Happy Jack Road – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County X (Exempt) to SS (Support Services) 
for a portion of the S½ of Section 35, and a portion of the SW¼ of Section 36, T14N, R67W, 
Laramie County, Wyoming generally located southwest of Interstate 25 and Happy Jack Road   – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MR Medium -Density Residential to NR -2 
Neighborhood Residential -Medium Density for land located northwest of the intersection of 
   
Country Club Avenue and Snyder Avenue – referred to Public Services Committee. (Spon sor – 
Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
create a Public Safety Fee requirement for residential, commercial, service, industrial, civic, public 
service, employment, agriculture, and other development in the city – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 2.76.020, Members-Term-Vacancies, 
of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of 
the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution Nos. 5934 and 5998 pertaining to adoption of a 
revised Cheyenne-Laramie County Board of Health Fee Schedule for inspection services, permit 
fees, and other various services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda carried). (#6153) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the filing of an application with the Federal Transit 
Administration for federal transportation assistance authorized  by Title 49, United States Code, 
Section 5339.  Motion (per Consent Agenda carried). (#6154)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Accepting a grant in the amount of $318,375.00 from the Corporation 
for National and Community Service for the City of Cheyenne, Office of Yo uth Alternatives, 
Foster Grandparent Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (RES #6155/CONT #7364)    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15-9-106 Finding and Declaring Parts of 
the City of Cheyenne as Blight and authorizing the redevel opment thereof.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6156) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving propositions to impose the 1% Specific Purpose Sales and 
Use Tax in Laramie County, State of Wyoming, for the exclusive purpose of funding specific 
purposes for specific amounts; the propositions to be voted on at a special election to be held 
November 2, 2021 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the interest and support of the Governing Body in moving 
forward with the ‘Hyatt Place Hotel and Cheyenne Center’ Project – referred to Public Services 
Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to accept a grant award from the U.S. 
Department of Treasury for the American Rescue Plan Coronavirus State and Local Fiscal 
Recovery Funds in the amount of $12,191,813 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Community Recreation and Events 
Department to apply for a Small Business Administration Shuttered Venue Operators Grant to 
   
recoup a portion of revenue losses incurred as a result of mandatory coronavirus induced Civic 
Center closures – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Community Recreation and Events 
Department to apply for a Cheyenne Community Recreation District Recreation Mill Grant to 
purchase scoreboards and sound systems for the Cheyenne Junior League Athletic Complex – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 Preliminary Plat for Meadowlark Estates, 2 nd Filing, a replat of Tract 1 and a portion of 
Tracts 2 -9 of Meadowlark Estates, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the 
intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road.   Bruce Perryman, AVI, agent for the 
applicant, noted the area to be developed has been anticipated to be developed as urban residential.  
Dr. Rinne moved to acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve the 
preliminary plat subject to City staff’s recommended conditions 1 -3, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
Preliminary Plat for The View, a replat of Tract 1, Park Estates, 4th Filing and Lot 20, Block 
4, Park Estates, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, 
Parkhill Road, and Panorama Driv e.  Bruce Perryman, AVI, agent for applicant, advised that 
annexation and a zoning change are currently being sought for this development.  Mr. Perryman 
reported that the development plans include 4 townhome units for a total of 8 executive residential 
units.  Dr. Rinne moved to acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve 
the preliminary plat subject to City staff’s recommended conditions 1-2, seconded by Mr. Segrave.   
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.         
 
[CA] Industrial and Economic Development Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $50,000.00).  (#7354) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events Department, 
and Brian Chalstrom D/B/A Putt Hutt, for premises used as a miniature golf course in Lions Park.  
(Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7355) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Casper, Wyoming, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for extraterritorial law enforcement assistance .  Mr. Roybal  moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. White.  It was noted that there were questions relating to reimbursement 
at the Finance Committee and that due  to a “no” vote, this item was not placed on the consent 
agenda.  Clarification was provided following vote of this item and the remaining extraterritorial 
law enforcement assistance memorandums of understanding were approved unanimously.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7356) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City o f Laramie, Wyoming, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for extraterritorial law enforcement assistance .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7357) 
 
   
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Douglas, Wyoming, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming,  for extraterritorial law enforcement assistance .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7358) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Torrington, Wyoming, and the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, for extraterritorial law enforcement assistance .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7359) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the Town of Hulett, Wyoming, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for extraterritorial law enforcement assistance .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7360) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Johnson County, Wyoming, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for extraterritorial law enforcement assistance .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7361) 
 
[CA] Lease agreement between  XESI and the City of Cheyenne, I nformation Technology 
Department, to lease 1 copier for duplication services  (General Fund)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between Y2 Consultants, Jackson, WY, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO), for the East Pershing Boulevard Design 
Plan (MPO Federal Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement betwee n the City of Cheyenne , Cheyenne Police Department, and Laramie 
County School District No. 1 for law enforcement services at various schools and school -related 
events (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
   
[CA] Memorandum of A greement be tween the 153D Airlift Wing, Wyoming Air National 
Guard, and the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department for Law Enforcement Assistance 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Easement and Assignment of Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Eco-
Site, LLC, Boca Raton, FL, for a tower, utility and access easement  (Revenue to the City) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Department of 
Environmental Quality (WDEQ) for the installation and use of ambient air quality and 
meteorological monitors (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne  and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for 
Animal Control and Animal Shelter Services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract modification #1 to Contract #7319 between the City of Cheyenne and KLJ 
Engineering for mapping and surveying services for the Landfill and Compost Facility  (Solid 
   
Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $20,000.00). 
(#7319) 
 
[CA] Contract amendment #1 to Contract #7239 between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Metropolitan Planning Organization, and Summit Engineering for the East Park Greenway 
Underpass and Drainage Plan (MPO Federal Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $20,040.00). (#7239) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -19-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Ameri -
Tech HVAC Services, Inc., for the HVAC and Mechanical Systems Maintenance Project  (Civic 
Center Fund, Fleet Maintenance Fund,  General Fund, Solid Waste Fund, Ice & Events Center 
Fund, Special Purpose Option Tax and 1% Sales Tax 2019-2022).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $365,799.00). (#7362) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -28-21 for furnishing three (3) new 2021 -2022 cab and chassis 
(low cab forward/cabover) with 40-yard front loader refuse collection body installed, for the City 
of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division  (Solid Waste Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $689,094.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -29-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 twin-screw diesel 
powered cab and chassis, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division  (Solid Waste Fund) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Peterbilt of Wyoming, Cheyenne, in an 
amount not to exceed $119,264.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -30-21 for furnishing three (3) new current in production 2021 -
2022 solid waste transfer trailer s, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division  (Solid Waste 
Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Ameri -Tech Equipment Co., 
Evansville, WY, in an amount not to exceed $311,700.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -31-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 front end wheel 
loader with less than 10 hours (Transfer Station), for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division 
(Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Honnen Equipment, 
Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $172,400.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -32-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 front end wheel 
loader with less than 10 hours (Compost Facility), for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division 
(Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Honnen Equipment, 
Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $206,000.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -33-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 portable trommel 
compost, topsoil screen plant, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation/Compost Division (Solid Waste 
Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Argus Industrial Co.,  Pontiac, 
MI, in an amount not to exceed $131,971.67). 
 
   
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -34-21 for furnishing one (1)  new 2021-2022 horizontal mobile 
wood waste grinder, for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation/Compost Division (Solid Waste Fund) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Rotochopper, Albany, MN, in an amount 
not to exceed $389,707.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -36-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 1 ton, regular cab, 
full size pickup truck, with plow, for the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events 
Department (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from 
Spradley Barr Motors, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $45,585.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -38-21 for furnishing one (1) new 2021 -2022 15 passenger van, 
for the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events Department (2015 -2018 1% Sales 
Tax and Insurance Claims ).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Greiner 
Ford, Casper, WY, in an amount not to exceed $33,270.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and CenturyLink, Littleton, CO, 
to relocate CenturyLink owned fiber optic utilities in preparation for an upcoming construction 
project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $72,000.00). 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Reappointments of Robert Korber to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services 
Joint Powers Board and Patrick Brady to the Community Action of Laramie County Board of 
Directors.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote 
(mayoral appointments).   
 
 Appointments of Kim Skoutary-Johnson to the Laramie County Juvenile Services Board; 
Stephanie Reece and Wendy Volk to the Downtown Development Authority Board; Stephanie 
Reece to the Visit Cheyenne Board; Trey Rinne and Kevin Marquardt to the Cheyenne/Laramie 
County Economic Developm ent Board; Curtis Clabaugh and Milo Vigil to the Board of 
Adjustment and Lauren Johnson, Carol Behrend, Samantha Cook, and Donald Potter to the 
Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities.  Dr. Rinne declared conflict  of interest due t o a 
proposed appointm ent of a family member and did not participate in discussion or vote.  Mr. 
Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins (mayoral appointments) and Dr. Rinne 
who did not vote.   
 
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the July 15, 2021 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Summer Convention Business 
Meeting to be held in Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (appointed Dr. 
Mark Rinne as Official Voting Delegate and Mayor Patrick Collins as Alternate Voting Delegate). 
   
 Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting Cheyenne area charities, will be held 
Sunday, July 31,  2021 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in the Cowboy Bistro located beside the Rodeo 
Committee Cabin at Frontier Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, in conjunction with the 2021 Cheyenne 
Frontier Days Rodeo.  (10% of proceeds go to bona fide charities).   
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Independence Day h oliday on July 4, 2021 and 
City offices being closed on Monday, July 5, 2021, regularly scheduled City Council Committee 
meetings will instead be held in the Municipal Building, Room 104, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference meetings as follows:  Finance Committee will 
meet Tuesday, July 6, 2021 at Noon and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday, July 
7, 2021 Noon.   
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Mayor Collins expressed appreciation to Community Recreation and Events staff for their 
hard work and efforts relating to the June 26th Superday activities and noted the excellent condition 
of Lions Park.   
 
 Mr. Laybourn noted he will be sending each member of the Community Recreation & 
Events Department an email expressing appreciation for their efforts and hard work on the annual 
Superday event.  Mayor Collins, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave echoed Mr. Laybourn’ s comments 
and supports a staff email.   
 
 Dr. Aldrich advised she recently participated in a panel during affordable housing week 
and was impressed by a local contractor and the Planning & Development Department for their 
efforts.  She further noted supportive comments that were received by local area contractors 
related to Mr. Bloom’s leadership of the city’s Planning & Development Department.  She 
further provided information on a kick-off meeting for the new Technical Advisory Council and 
Innovations and Entrepreneurial Task Force that will be held on Tuesday, June 29th, beginning at 
5:30 p.m. at the Array Building.  
 
 Mr. Johnson commented on  a 13 -year-old he met during  Superday and expressed 
appreciation for his drive and work ethic noting he was raising awareness and funds for his church. 
  
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:10 p.m.  
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 9, 2021 