MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2021-07-12 | CLIP_ID: 807 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 807

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 12, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, C OUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich,  Ken Esquibel  (via Zoom) , 
Bryan Cook (arriving at 6:12 p.m.) , Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott 
Roybal, Tom Segrave  and Jeff White  (via Zoom).  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The 
pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda ).  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Segrave and Dr. Rinne, agenda item #22 was removed from the Consent Agenda. 
Mr. Segrave moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 28, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located southwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, Parkhill Road, and Panorama Drive 
(Postponed from June 28, 2021).  Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development Department, advised the 
annexation is dependent upon a county lot line adjustment which was denied and failed during an 
appeal.  The applicant is seeking reconsideration by the County Commissioners on July 20, 2021 
and staff and the applicant agree that postponing the item for 2 weeks would allow reconsideration 
instead of postponing indefinitely .  Mr. Lloyd noted this is affiliated with the next item on the 
agenda which is for the zone change.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone 
indefinitely, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  It was noted that city staff and the applicant have requested 
the motion to postpone indefinitely be voted down and instead postpone to the next meeting of the 
governing body.  Motion failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the governing body present.  Dr. 
Rinne moved to postpone to July 26, 2021, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to postpone carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultural Residential to MR 
Medium-Density Residential for land located southwest of the intersection of Braehi ll Road, 
Parkhill Road, and Panorama Drive (Postponed from June 28, 2021).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone indefinitely, 
   
seconded by Mr. Segrave .  Mayor  Collins noted the desire of the staff and applicant is to vote 
down the motion to postpone indefinitely and instead postpone to the next meeting of the 
Governing Body on July 26, 2021.  Motion failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the governing 
body present.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to July 26, 2021, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion 
to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northeast of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road. 
Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development Department, explained the staff report indicated inclusion 
of the Dell Range right-of-way, however, there is c onsideration of including the right -of-way at 
the location due to WYDOT improvements. City staff including the City Engineer have confirmed 
the interest to include the right -of-way in the annexation and s taff has requested a 2-week 
postponement to allow for a map revision to include the right-of-way in the ordinance and affiliated 
map. Mr. Lloyd advised the postponement isn’t anticipated to delay the project tremendously as 
the final plat will still have to be submitted.  (It was noted for the record Bryan Cook, Councilman 
Ward II, joined the meeting at 6:12 during discussion and prior to vote on this item). Vicki Million-
Hughes provided a handout related to the annexation and project proposal for the land noting the 
developer would like to place 50+ homes on the land.  She commented on many concerns including 
obstructed views of the city skyline therefore requesting ranch style homes and buffers between 
properties, concern of what commercial property may be located on the land, accidents and traffic 
in the area and lack of green space in the subdivision.  It was noted the ordinance is to annex the 
land into the city and the related ordinance will create the zoning. It was advised that the final plat 
for development actions will be submitted at a later date.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to July 26, 2021, 
seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mr. Lloyd explained  upon inquiry that this project contained an 
agreement written into the original docume nts from county residential property owners on the 
hillside adjacent to the area  that the property down the hillside would be serviced by city sewer 
services and it would be anticipated to be developed for urban uses in the future.    Motion to 
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING –  Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MU Mixed Use and County LR Low 
Density Residential to CB Community Business, LR Low-Density Residential, and MR Medium-
Density Residential for land loca ted northeast of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range 
Boulevard, west of Whitney Road.  Patty Lockley requested a meeting with the  developer and 
nearby residents in the area be held prior to the next City Council meeting.  Dr. Rinne moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to 
July 26, 2021, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating a new Section 8.60.210, Liens, of Chapter 8.60, 
Nuisances, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mayor 
Collins explained he had met with members of  the banking community and the Chamber of 
Commerce and the recommendation at this time is that the ordinance and the 2 following affiliated 
ordinances be postponed indefinitely.  Mayor Collins reported the effected parties will work on a 
   
solution for the lien situation  to be brought forward in the near future.  Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. Roybal advised there was no recommendation from the Committee.  It was noted 
a main motion is necessary prior to a motion to postpone.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Mr. Roybal moved to postpone indefinitely, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  City Attorney Michael O’Donnell, upon inquiry, provided procedural information 
relating to the motion to postpone indefinitely explaining it essentially kills an item, however, 
allows for the item to be reintroduced at a later time. Dale Steenbergen, President/CEO for the 
Chamber of Commerce, confirmed his willingness to serve on a committee to find a compromise 
to the lien issue between the City and the financial community.  Conce rn was voiced relating to 
the motion to postpone indefinitely and it was noted that particular motion hasn’t been common 
practice for the governing body.  Motion to postpone  indefinitely carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating a new Section 12.04.240, Liens, of Chapter 
12.04, Streets, Sidewalks, and Driveways Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public 
Places, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Roybal advised there was no 
recommendation from the Committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Mr. Roybal moved to postpone indefinitely, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  
Motion to postpone indefinitely carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.   
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating a new Section 15.24.030, Liens, of Chapter 
15.24, Dangerous Building Code, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal advised there was no recommendation from the Committee.  
Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to postpone indefinitely, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion to postpone indefinitely carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Dr. 
Rinne voting “no”.   
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending various se ctions of Chapter 5.04, Business 
Licenses Generally, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4384) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.52, Massage 
Establishments, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4385) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 8.60, Nuisances, 
of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal advised 
there was no recommendation from the Committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave .  Mr. O’Donnell explained th e amendment brings the 
ordinance up to date with the new administrative hearing process. Upon inquiry, Mr. O’Donnell 
explained that due to a miscommunication, this item did not receive a recommendation at the July 
   
6, 2021 Finance Committee meeting.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4386) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of the S½ of Section 35, and a portion of the SW¼ of Section 36, T14N, R67W, Laramie County, 
Wyoming generally located southwest of Interstate 25 and Happy Jack Road.  Dr. Rinne moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  It was noted the annexation is unique due 
to the leased property being located adjacent to Warren Air Force Base (WAFB) and a request was 
made for additional information on the process.  Comments were made regarding lack of WAFB 
involvement in the annexation process, history of previous land uses at this location, current grant 
opportunities relating to utility development on th e site and information was provided regarding 
options for annexation of the land.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County X (Exempt) to SS (Support Services) 
for a portion of the S½ of Section 35, and a portion of the SW¼ of Section 36, T14N, R67W, 
Laramie County, Wyoming generally located southwest of Interstate 25 and Happy Jack Road. Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MR Me dium-Density Residential to NR -2 
Neighborhood Residential -Medium Density for land located northwest of the intersection of 
Country Club Avenue and Snyder Avenue .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voti ng “yes” – all members of the governing body  
with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.   
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
create a Public Safety Fee requirement for residential, commercial, service, industrial, civic, public 
service, employment, agriculture, and other development in the city.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 2.76.020, Members-Term-Vacancies, 
of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of 
the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave. Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated July 6, 2021, seconded 
by Mr.  Segrave. Mr. O’Donnell explained the substitute provides for  initial Downtown 
Development Authority Board appointment to be made by the Mayor and adds a process to send 
suggestions to the Mayor for consideration.  Support was expressed for the process and it was 
noted this is needed to help achieve goals for the downtown district.  Motion to amend by substitute 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the g overning body with the exception of Mr. Cook and 
Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook and Mr. Johnson voting “no”.   
   
 RESOLUTION – Approving propositions to impose the 1% Specific Purpose Sales and 
Use Tax in Laramie County, State of Wyoming, for the exclusive purpose of funding specific 
purposes for specific amounts; the propositions to be voted on at a special election to be held 
November 2, 2021.  Gunnar Malm, Laramie County Commissioner, explained that as of tonight, 
Laramie County and the towns of Albin, Pine Bluffs and Burns will have approved their resolutions 
and noted  he felt the p rocess went well , expressing appreciation to city staff.   Mayor Collins 
thanked Laramie County C ommissioners for their assistance during the process.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated July 
6, 2021 at 1:52 p.m. which includes the following amendme nts made at the July 6, 2021 Finance 
Committee meeting: clarification to proposition numbering and removal of the “17 th Street 
Lighting Project” in Proposition #10 and added the word “lighting” following the word 
“sidewalks” in Proposition #10, seconded by  Dr. Aldrich.  Opposition was voiced related to  the 
removal of the language “17th Street Lighting Project” in Proposition #10 and the determination to 
remove it without obtaining governing body approval .  Motion  to amend by substitute carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the 
exception of Mr. Segrave voting “no”. (#6157) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Expressing the interest and support of the Governing Body in moving 
forward with the ‘Hyatt Place Hotel and Cheyenne Center’ Project .  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Comments were made regarding the nature of the proposal and  project 
including: city’s capacity to review the new proposal in various aspects of the development, vision 
for the project, public/private partnerships, future projects of this nature, opportunity to learn and 
look at what other municipalities are doing  related to similar projects, concern for future limited 
opportunities for development and appreciation was expressed to the proponents for their proposal 
and to members of the governing body for their willingness to consider the project.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6158) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to accept a grant award from the U.S. 
Department of Treasury for the American Rescue Plan Coronavirus State and Local Fiscal 
Recovery Funds in the amount of $12,191,813.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6159) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Community Recreat ion and Events 
Department to apply for a Small Business Administration Shuttered Venue Operators Grant to 
recoup a portion of revenue losses incurred as a result of mandatory coronavirus induced Civic 
Center closures.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6160) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Community Recreation and Events 
Department to apply for a Cheyenne Community Recreation District Recreation Mill Grant to 
purchase scoreboards and sound systems for the Cheyenne Junior League Athl etic Complex .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6161) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the expansion of the Capitol North Historic District and the 
addition of one hundred nineteen (119) structures to the contributing structures list maintained by 
the City’s Planning Office.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6162) 
 
   
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Community Recreation and Events 
Department to submit a proposal to apply for an Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation, 
Department of Defense, Defense Community Infrastructure Program Grant to build an indoor 
sports complex to support the military family quality of life Infrastructure of Francis E. Warren 
Air Force Base Service Members and their families – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Waterford 
Square 3rd Filing, a replat of Lots 28 & 29, Block 7, Lots 1 & 31, Block 5 and a portion of Tray 
More Boulevard and a djacent alleys, Waterford Square, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located south of the intersection of Tray More Boulevard and Waterford Boulevard) – 
referred to Public Service Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Sweetgrass, 
7th Filing, a subdivision of a portion of the N½ of Section 16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West 
of the 6th P. M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie county, Wyoming (located south of East College Drive 
and adjacent to Sweetgrass Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] Lease agreement between  XESI and the City of Cheyenne, I nformation Technology 
Department, to lease 1 copier for duplication services  (General Fund) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7367) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between Y2 Consultants, Jackson, WY, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO), for the East Pershing Boulevard Design 
Plan (MPO Federal Funds) .  Mo tion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$94,036.00). (#7368) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne , Cheyenne Police Department, and Laramie 
County School District No. 1 for law enforcement services at various schools and school-related 
events (Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7369) 
   
[CA] Memorandum of A greement between the 153D Airlift Wing, Wyoming Air National 
Guard, and the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department for Law Enforcement Assistance.  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7370) 
 
[CA] Easement and Assignment of Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Eco -
Site, LLC, Boca Raton, FL, for a tower, utility and access easement (Revenue to the City).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7371) 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Department of 
Environmental Quality (WDEQ) for the installation and use of ambient air quality and 
meteorological monitors (Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7372) 
 
 
   
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne  and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter/Services for 
Animal Control and Animal Shelter Services (General Fund).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve in an 
amount not to exceed $425,000, seconded by Mr . Segrave .  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by 
substitute dated June 30, 2021, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. O’Donnell explained the substitute 
noting it is for a period of time not to exceed 6 months  and payment is at the monthly rate the 
Cheyenne Animal Shelter requested from the city.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Main 
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  (#7373) 
 
 Memorandum of Agreement between Robin and Debbie Courtier, the City of Cheyenne, 
and the Wyoming Department of Transportation for the study of downstream storm water 
problems.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mr. Roybal reported that  
due to a recent verbal agreement being reached and in an effort to expedite the use of the Detention 
Pond Easement, this item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the July 6, 2021 
Finance Committee Meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City  Code have been met.  Mr. 
Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated July 7, 2021, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mr. 
O’Donnell reported the substitute includes  removal of  #10 under the “Now, therefore, in 
consideration of the mutual benefits and burdens as sumed by each party to this agreement” 
paragraph relating to costs that will be paid by the City, WYDOT and others.  He advised there 
may be an agreement for these fees in the future that will allow for the cost sharing to be determined 
at a later date.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Tom Cobb, City Engineer, was complemented 
for his efforts related to the memorandum of agreement and it was noted members of the governing 
body look forward to learning more on the process.  Comments were made that the draining issue 
has had substantial negative effect on how the city evaluates development projects relating to 
drainage concerns.  It was noted that drainage concerns have been expressed by property owners 
further downstream near Child’s Draw.  Main motion as amended carried.   Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr.  Cook and Dr. Rinne voting “ no”.  
(#7374) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County, Wyoming, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for EOD, SWAT, and CNU operations and extraterritorial law enforcement 
assistance and activities – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and SpyGlass Group, LLC, Westlake, OH, for 
communications services auditing – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Merchant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and RecTrac, LLC d/b/a Vermont 
Systems, for credit card processing of Recreation related services – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7231 between the City of Cheyenne and Burns and 
McDonnell for a force majeure for additional architectural and inspection services for the Landfill 
Front Entrance and Scale House Construction Support Project (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to 
Finance Committee.     
   
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Contract #6625 between the City of Cheyenne and Western 
Research and Development, Ltd., for additional design services for the 2018 On Call Traffic 
Engineering Services Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Reappointment of Jay Sullivan to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint 
Powers Board.  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote 
(mayoral appointments).   
 
 Announcement was made that the July 26, 2021 City Council meeting will be held in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, C heyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference 
meeting at Noon instead of 6:00 p.m. 
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Mayor Collins explained he has been working on the Urban Renewal Authority Board and 
has received all applications and would like to appoint the board members at this meeting to allow 
them to address the Hitching Post issue.  Kris Jones, City Clerk, read into the record the names for 
appointment:  Appointment of Katye Brown, Ken Dugas, Hugh Robert Graham, Chet Halvorson, 
and Ryan Whitehead to the Urban Renewal Authority Board.  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments).   
 
 Mayor Collins advised he was contacted on Friday , July 9, 2021 by the Fire Union to see 
if they could meet with him and the City Attorney relating to the Fire Department’s contract with 
the city.  Mayor Collins reported he would like to meet in Executive Session regarding the meeting 
held and noted there will be no further action taken after the meeting and that the regular meeting 
of the governing body will be adjourned following adjournment of the Execu tive Session.  Mr. 
O’Donnell advised there will be no further business after Executive Session and that adjournment 
of the regular meeting will not be on video.  Dr. Rinne moved to meet in executive session at 7:07 
p.m., seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion ca rried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
 Following adjournment of the Executive Session, Mayor Collins reconvened the regular 
meeting of the governing body at 7:33 p.m. and there being no further business to come before the 
governing body, the meeting was officially adjourned at 7:34 p.m.  
 
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk 
 
   
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 22, 2021 