MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2021-07-26 | CLIP_ID: 809 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 809

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 26, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 12:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, C OUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich,  Ken Esquibel  (via Zoom) , 
Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson (via Zoom), Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne (joined via Zoom at 
12:06 p.m.), Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White.  Also present: Kylie Soden, Deputy City 
Clerk.  
 
Following the pledge of allegiance, Mayor Collins called for a moment  of silence for 
Senator Mike Enzi related to injuries recently sustained in a serious bicycle accident.  
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted b y one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the ag enda. Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 12, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located southwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, Parkhill Road, and Panorama Drive 
(Postponed from July 12, 2021). Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Laybourn moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Mr. Laybourn advised that 
following the Laramie County Board of Commissioner’s meeting on July 20, 2021, the plat was 
reconsidered but not approved.  Mr. Laybourn moved to postpone indefinitely, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Mayor Collins explained the indefinite postponement essentially kills the item, therefore 
requiring it to come back before the governing body in the future.  Motion to postpone indefinitely 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultural Residential to MR 
Medium-Density Residential for land located southwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, 
Parkhill Road, and Panorama Drive  (Postponed from Ju ly 12, 2021).  Mr. Laybourn moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. Laybourn advised that following 
the Laramie County Board of Commissioner’s meeting on July 20, 2021, the plat was reconsidered 
but not approved.  Mr. Laybourn moved to postpone indefinitely, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion 
to postpone indefinitely carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
   
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northeast of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road . 
(Postponed from July 12, 2021).   Mr. Laybourn moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Laybourn moved to amend by substitute dated July 16, 2021 , 
seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mayor Collins noted the substitute includes  the Dell Range Blvd.  
intersection on the map.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body.   Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne vo ting “no”. [Clerks note: Dr. Rinne joined the 
meeting at 12:06 p.m. during discussion and prior to the vote on this item] (#4387) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MU Mixed Use and County LR Low 
Density Residential to CB Community Business, LR Low-Density Residential, and MR Medium-
Density Residential for land located nort heast of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range 
Boulevard, west of Whitney Road (Postponed from July 12, 2021) .  Mr. Laybourn moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4388) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, a portion 
of the S½ of Section 35, and a portion of the SW¼ of Section 36, T14N, R67W, Laramie County, 
Wyoming generally located southwest of Interstate 25 and Happy Jack Roa d.  Mr. Laybourn 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4389) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County X (Exempt) to SS (Support Services) 
for a portion of the S½ of Section 35, and a portion of the SW¼ of Section 36, T14N, R67W, 
Laramie County, Wyoming generally located southwest of Inters tate 25 and Happy Jack Road . 
Mr. Laybourn moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr . White.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4390)  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MR Medium -Density Residential to NR -2 
Neighborhood Residential -Medium Density for land located northwest of the intersection of 
Country Club Avenue and Snyder Avenue .  Mr. Laybourn moved to approve  on third and final  
reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Upon inquiry, Charles Bloom, Planning and Development 
Director, reported the zone change request is affiliated with several different applications  and 
multiple variances were being considered by the Boar d of Adjustment including a reduction of 
parking, necessary setbacks and access of which several elements were denied.  Mr. Bloom advised 
work with the developer is ongoing to redo the site plan and plat .  He noted they are still 
recommending approval of the zone change to NR-2 as they believe it is the correct zoning for the 
neighborhood and will allow for existing development to continue and  for future redevelopment.  
Upon further inquiry, Mr. Bloom explained the developer will be retaining the existing building 
and improving the gravel parking lot  and noted they are proposing 4 new townhouse units along 
Snyder Ave.   Mr. Bloom advised t he Board of Adjustment denied th e request for 3 of the  
   
townhouse units to have rear access and 1 to have a driveway access on Snyder. During discussion 
related to comments and concerns of area neighbors, Mayor Collins noted he had received a 
records request for information related to the  project and comments were received related to 
drainage concerns and support for the added units but concerns with the space restraint .  Mayor 
Collins advised he met with the developer’s representative and they are aware of drainage issues 
and are working on an engineering solution.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Bloom advised zoning in the area 
is MR (Medium Density Residential) and is complementary to the requested NR -2 zoning 
classification.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4391) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
create a Public Safety Fee requirement for residential, commercial, service, industrial, civic, public 
service, employment, agriculture, and other development in the city .  Charles Bloom, Planning 
and Development Director, advised he met with members of the Southeast Wyoming Home 
Builders Association and although they aren’t  totally in support of the ordinance , they do agree 
this is an important first step and the ordinance w ill need to be revisited in the future .  Future 
review will involve the association and review of the fees to make sure they are accurate.  Mr. 
Bloom noted the fees will be for public safety infrastructure and not an offset to the Fire or Police 
Department’s general operating costs.   Mayor Collins expressed appreciation to the Southeast 
Wyoming Home Builders Association for their contributions related to the ordinance.  Mr. 
Laybourn moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Comment was 
made related to the need to be able to maintain and provide public safety services in all areas of 
the community and appreciation was expressed to Mr. Bloom and the Southeast Wyoming Home 
Builders Association for working on the ordinance.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. (#4392)  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 2.76.020, Members-Term-Vacancies, 
of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of 
the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Laybourn moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Comments were made regarding improvements that have been 
made downtown and the importance of the ordinance for streamlining downtown efforts.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception Mr. Johnson voting 
“no”.  Mayor Collins noted that due to the ordinance change, applications for the board will be 
accepted for appointment. (#4393) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Community Recreation and Events 
Department to submit a proposal to apply for an Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation, 
Department of Defense, Defense Community Infrastructure Program Grant to build an i ndoor 
sports complex to support the military family quality of life Infrastructure of Francis E. Warren 
Air Force Base Service Members and their families .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  
(#6163) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Waterford 
Square 3rd Filing, a replat of Lots 28 & 29, Block 7, Lots 1 & 31, Block 5 and a portion of Tray 
More Boulevard and adjacent alleys, Waterford Square, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located south of the inter section of Tray More Boulevard and Waterford Boulevard) . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6164) 
   
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Sweetgrass, 
7th Filing, a subdivision of a portion of the N½ of Section 16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West 
of the 6th P. M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie county, Wyoming (located south of East College Drive 
and adjacent to Sweetgrass Drive). Mr. Laybourn moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Mr. 
Laybourn moved to postpone until August 9, 2021,  seconded by Mr. Segrave. Upon inquiry, 
Charles Bloom, Planning and Development Director, explained the reason for the postponement 
is to review a new plat that was submitted by the agent for the owner.  Motion to postpone carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing a one -time payment given to the full -time and permanent 
part-time employees of the City of Cheyenne (excluding elected officials and employees of the 
Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities) from funds received from the Coronavirus State and Local 
Fiscal Recovery Fund Established by the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 – referred to Finance 
Committee.  (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave, and Mr. 
White.)  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County, Wyoming, and the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, for EOD, SWAT, and CNU operations and extraterritorial law enforcement 
assistance and activities.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7376) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and SpyGlass Group, LLC, Westlake, OH, for 
communications services auditing.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7377) 
 
[CA] Merchant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and RecTrac, LLC d/b/a Vermont 
Systems, for credit card processing of Recreation related services.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7378) 
 
[CA] Grant of Access Easement and Temporary Construction Easement on City owned Property, 
Tract U, Sweetgrass, 2 nd Filing, between the City of Cheyenn e and Sweetgrass Land Co., LLC  - 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County, 
Wyoming for juvenile probation services (revenue to the City) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7231 between the City of Cheyenne and Burns and 
McDonnell for a force majeure for additional architectural and inspection services for the Landfill 
Front Entrance and Scale House Construction Support Project (Solid Waste Fund).  Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal advised there was no recommendation from committee.  Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $ 38,937.00, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Comments were made rel ating to the possibility of rebidding the project.  Upon inquiry, Craig 
LaVoy, Deputy Director of Public Works, explained the contract is for the project design and the 
consequence of requesting a new bid proposal is the project would be shut down.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. 
Esquibel voting “no”. (#7231) 
 
   
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Contract #6625 between the City of Cheyenne and We stern 
Research and Development, Ltd., for additional design services for the 2018 On Call Traffic 
Engineering Services Project (2015-2018 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(in an amount not to exceed $35,194.51). (#6625) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-40-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Goat 
Green, LLC, for providing vegetation management for Dry Creek and Crow Creek, for the City of 
Cheyenne Engineering Department (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Appointment of Julie Torres to the Laramie County Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board.   
Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral 
appointment).  
 
 Announcement was made of Public Hearing to be held August 9, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers , 2101 O’Neil Avenue,  Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference 
meeting, to receive comments and input for the Hitching Post Urban Renewal Plan and Project, as 
required by Wyoming Statute §15-9-109, for land generally located northwest of West Lincolnway 
and Stinson Avenue.       
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Mayor Collins noted that at the July 12, 2021 City Council meeting, the motion to approve 
the Memorandum of Agreement between Robin and Debbie Courtier, the City of Cheyenne, and 
the Wyoming Department of Transportation for the study of downstream water problems was 
approved. He further advised WYDOT was included in the MOU as they h old the easement for 
the pond  that is being reviewed , but that the Attorney General is uncomfortable signing the 
agreement.  Mayor Collins advised he would like a motion to reconsider the agreement to remove 
WYDOT and they will do a direct agreement with the city on the modification o f their easement.  
Mr. Segrave, having voted on the prevailing side and pursuant to City Code Chapter 2.04, moved 
to reconsider the Memorandum of Agreement between Robin and Debbie Courtier, the City of 
Cheyenne, and the Wyoming Department of Transportatio n for the study of downstream water 
problems, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Mr. Segrave moved to  amend 
by substitute dated July 23, 2021, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Mayor Collins advised the only change 
in the substitute is the removal of WYDOT as a signatory of the agreement making the agreement 
between the city and the Courtiers only.  Upon inquiry, Michael O’Donnell, City Attorney, advised 
the Attorney General ’s office has communicated concerns related to the agreement during a 
meeting and via email noting they aren’t comfortable signing the agreement in its original format.  
Upon request for more information on the project, Mayor Colli ns noted he will look into 
scheduling an informational work session.  Concern was raised  about WYDOT being removed 
   
from the agreement.  Mayor Collins described issues with the original agreement and noted he has 
received assurance that all parties want to be involved with the project.  Motion to amend by 
substitute caried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. 
Rinne voting “no”.  Appreciation was expressed to the governing bod y for their consideration to 
remedy the situation.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. (#7374) 
 
 Dr. Aldrich expressed appreciation to Mr. Laybourn and the DDA for their beautification 
efforts in the downtown area.  She further thanked Jason Sanchez, Deputy Director of Community 
Recreation and Events, and his staff for their assistance with Fridays on the Plaza and city staff for 
their efforts downtown. 
 
 Mr. Laybourn noted the extra effort downtown was not unnoticed.  He further expressed 
appreciation to Public Works for the median clean-up by Little America.  Mayor Collins advised 
the median clean -up was a joint effort between Public Works and Community Recreation & 
Events.  Mayor Collins further expressed appreciation to city employees for their efforts in keeping 
the city safe and appealing. 
 
 Mr. Johnson noted the recent passing of Bill Dubois , local historian,  and expressed 
appreciation for all he did for the community. 
 
 There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 12:44 p.m.    
  
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kylie Soden, CMC  
Deputy City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 5, 2021 