MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2021-08-09 | CLIP_ID: 811 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 811

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 9, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 12:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, C OUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich,  Ken Esquibel, Bryan Cook, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne,  Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave  and Jeff White.  
Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda . Upon request by Mr. Johnson, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. White and Dr. Aldrich, agenda item #9 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook and Mr. Johnson, 
agenda item #16(a) wa s removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve 
remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 26, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a p ublic hearing to receive comments and input for the Hitching 
Post Urban Renewal Plan and Project, as required by Wyoming St atute §15 -9-109, for land 
generally located northwest of West Lincolnway and Stinson Avenue.  Mark Christensen, Planning 
and Development  Department, provided information on the Urban Renewal Plan and Project 
stating the property has been declared as slum or blight by resolution which also created the Urban 
Renewal Area  (URA). Mr. Christensen provided information on the creation of a TIF (tax 
increment financing) district  which will allow for diverting a portion of taxes to help finance 
development in the area.  Mr. Christensen further provided information on what the proposed 
development will include and how much tax increments are anticipated to be received, noting staff 
recommends approval of the item.  Upon inquiry regarding why property south of Li ncolnway is 
included in the plan and project, Mr. Christensen explained when the blight study was originally 
conducted, it was unknown what the boundaries would be, but the Lincolnway right -of-way is 
included in case funding is available for improvements.  Melissa Burke, attorney from Hathaway 
and Kunz on behalf of Stephanie White and Dos ser, LLC, property owner in the corridor, read a 
letter on behalf of Ms. White into the record that provided history on the Hitching Post  property. 
Ms. White’s letter also noted she was unaware that her land to the northwest of the Hitching Post 
is included in the URA until last week  and acknowledged state statute doesn’t require landowner 
notification.  Ms. White  requested the URA to amend their bylaws.  There being no further 
comments or input, and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
   
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning c lassification from MR Medium -Density Residential to NR -2 
Neighborhood Residential-Medium Density for land located north of and adjacent to Miller Lane, 
between Sunset Drive and Townsend Place – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Dr. Rinne) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Sweetgrass, 
7th Filing, a subdivision of a portion of the N½ of Section 16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West 
of the 6 th P. M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located so uth of East College 
Drive and adjacent to Sweetgrass Drive)  (Postponed from July 26, 2021) .  Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Dr. Rinne moved to 
amend by substitute map dated July 21, 2021 , seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by 
substitute map  carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   Main motion as 
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6165) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing a one-time payment given to the full -time and permanent 
part-time employees of the City of Cheyenne (excluding elected officials and employees of the 
Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities) from funds received from the Coronavirus State and Local 
Fiscal Recovery  Fund Established by the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 .  Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Comments were made 
and concerns were voiced related to hardships first responders and frontline workers faced during 
the pandemic including: working in Covid “hot zones”, childcare issues, increased workload for 
Sanitation workers, increased calls for domestic  related issues and employees riding in vehicles 
and equipment together with increased Covid exposure.  Motio n carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#6166) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the Hitching Post Urban Renewal Plan and the Hitching Post 
Urban Renewal Project Pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15 -9-110, and approving the creation of a 
new Hitching Post Urban Renewal Authority Special Revenue fund – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business 
Council under the Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for a Managed Data 
Center Cost Reduction Grant not to exceed $2,250,000.00 on behalf of the governing body of the 
City of Cheyenne – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities to discharge 
uncollectible debts in the amount of $1,138.02 pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16 -4-502 – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W. S. §16 -4-112 & §16 -4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
   
[CA] Grant of Access Easement and Temporary Construction Easement on City owned Property, 
Tract U, Sweetgrass, 2 nd Filing, between the City of Cheyenne and Sweetgrass Land Co., LLC .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7385) 
 
[CA] Agreement between City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County, 
Wyoming for juvenile probation services (revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount of $60,000.00 revenue to the City). (#7386) 
 
[CA] Contract between Laramie County and the Office of Youth Alternatives for on -call crisis 
center services in the amount of $69,000.00 (revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation & Event s, and the 
Officials for Fun Club to officiate the 2021-2022 youth volleyball, adult volleyball, and adult co-
rec volleyball programs (Recreation Programs Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Chey enne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization and LSC Transportation Consults, Inc., Colorado Springs, CO, for the 2022 
Transit Development Plan (MPO Federal Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #6 to Contract #5930 between the City of Cheyenne and Kone, Inc., 
Denver, CO, for the addition of an elevator located at the Judge Joseph M. Carey Cheyenne City 
Center Building (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
    
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #7256 between the City of Cheyenne and Dan Hart 
Patrol Service, LLC, Upton, WY, for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1, 2 and 3 Excavation 
Earthworks Project for an increase in rock excavation quantities and addition of Duke Energy 
Maintenance Road relocation (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7072 for the Hazard Mitigation grant from the 
Wyoming Office of Homeland Security, in the amount of $191,430.85 for Dry Creek Drainage 
Planning by extending the term of the grant agreement to August 5, 2022 (DHS FEMA Grant-Dry 
Creek Drainage Plan) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7309 between the City of Cheyenne and Synergy 
Construction, LLC, Lovell, WY, for the Happy Jack Landfill Front Entrance and Scale House 
Project to build an on -site scale house building (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee.    
 
 Consideration of Bid #E-40-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Goat 
Green, LLC, for providing vegetation management for Dry Creek and Crow Creek, for the City of 
Cheyenne Engineering Department (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve in 
an amount not to exceed $69,776.00, seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Upon inquiry, Tom Cobb, City 
Engineer, advised the bid from Goat Green, LLC, was the only bid received and explained the cost 
increase as compared to previous contracts  may be related to revised base bid qualifications that 
include 5 years of experience and increased insurance requirements.  Mr. Cobb noted upon inquiry, 
   
that this type of vegetation management is an effective way to maintain landscape in flood areas.  
Upon further inquiry, Mr. Cobb and Jason Sanchez, Deputy Director of Community Recreation 
and Events, provided information on prior funding details for the service noting Weed and Pest 
used to assist in the funding but no longer has it in their budget.  It was noted that the Engineering 
Department and the Weed and Pest Division will work together on partnering for future funding.  
During comments related to vegetation in other drainage ways that need s to be addressed , City 
Attorney Michael O’Donnell advised there is an ordinance drafted for a stormwater drainage utility 
to be brought before the governing body in the near future.  Mr. Cobb, upon inquiry, advised he is 
working on updating the stormwater management plan including adding a task to the Dry Creek 
Master Plan  which includes reviewing the drainage ordinance.   Further comments were made 
regarding the importance of management of drainage ways and development of a stormwater 
drainage utility.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7387) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-1-22 for furnishing two (2) new 2021 4WD 72” front -mount 
mowers for City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation & Events Department (2015-2018 1% Sales 
Tax and Specific Purpose Sales Tax Funding) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-23-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Kaiser 
Corporation d/b/a Kaiser Flooring, Cheyenne, for the Municipal Building 3 rd Floor Carpet 
Replacement Project (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.      
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held August 23, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference 
meeting, to hear public comment regarding the intent of the City of Cheyenne to submit an 
application for funding for the Wyoming Business Council’s Business Ready Community Grant 
and Loan, Managed Data Center Cost Reduction Grant not to exceed $2,250,000.00 for reducing 
the communications and utility costs for three years through the reimbursement of accrued utility 
expenses and encouraging employment and private investment by Project Bison. 
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Mayor Collins advised he would like to meet in Executive Session for the purpose of 
discussing a land transaction and noted there will be no further action taken after the meeting and 
that the regular meeting of the governing body will be adjourn ed following adjournment of the 
Executive Session.  Mr. White moved to meet in executive session at 6:35 p.m., seconded by Dr. 
Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 Following adjournment of the Executive Session, Mayor Collins reconvened the regular 
meeting of the governing body at 6:55 p.m. and there being no further business to come before the 
governing body, the meeting was officially adjourned at 6:56 p.m.  
  
 
 
   
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 14, 2021 