MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2021-08-23 | CLIP_ID: 814 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 814

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 23, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel (via 
Zoom) Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne,  Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave  and Jeff 
White.  Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda. City Clerk Kris Jones noted agenda item #14 was inadvertently referred 
to the Public Services Committee and is instead referred to the Finance Committee.   (All agenda 
items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be routine items by the governing body 
and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no separate discussion on these items unless a 
member of the governing body so requests and support by two other members is received.  Any 
item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its normal sequence on the agenda. 
Upon request by Mr. Roybal, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Segrave and Dr. Aldrich, 
agenda item # 10 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Roybal , and 
pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave, agenda item #17(b) was removed 
from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve remaining items , seconded by  Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 9, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to receive comments and input regarding the intent 
of the City of Cheyenne to submit an application for funding for the Wyoming Business Council’s 
Business Ready Community Grant and Loan, Managed Data Center Cost Reduction Grant not to 
exceed $2,250,000.00 for reducing the communicatio ns and utility costs for three years through 
the reimbursement of accrued utility expenses and encouraging employment and private 
investment by Project Bison.  There being no comments or input, and purpose of the hearing having 
been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MR Medium -Density Residential to NR -2 
Neighborhood Residential-Medium Density for land located north of and adjacent to Miller Lane, 
between Sunset Drive and Townsend Place.  Tammy Plunkett, adjacent property owner, expressed 
concerns with the proposed zone change involving possible drainage and sewer issues, increased 
traffic, proposed type of development and the planned number of additional townhome residential 
units.  Ms. Plunket t expressed concerns with the proposed removal of Dean Court, which is the 
only access road that goes along Miller Lane , relating to emergency medical services (EMS) and 
police access to the area.  She noted she believes there is an error in the city’s staff report relating 
to blocks mentioned in the development and requested consideration to keep the current  zoning.  
   
Brad Emmons, AVI, and developer for the project, provided information about the conceptual plan 
for the area which includes a twin home development with a shared open space access area.  Mr. 
Emmons explained the purpose of requesting the NR-2 zoning is to allow for shared open space, 
not for an increase of residential units, noting units will have a deck and will share the common 
open space.  Mr. Emmons advised this is a new development concept, an HOA will maintain 
landscaping and the plat will go before the governing body  for approval.  Upon i nquiry, Mr. 
Emmons reported a traffic study is not required as the area is  below the threshold  requirement.  
Mayor Collins noted the development is currently in the design phase for drainage and will likely 
include 2 detention ponds.  Concerns were raised related to increase of area traffic  and street, 
gutter, and sidewalk improvements/remediation.  Mr. Emmons reported he has met with the City’s 
Engineering Department on th e concerns and provided information on existing area  curb, gutter 
and sidewalks and noted some alternatives are being reviewed in terms of curb and gutter.  Upon 
inquiry, he reported the proposed access easement is 28’ which has been vetted with the city’s Fire 
Department for being acceptable for access.  Following additional inquiry, Mr. Emmons provided 
information on options that were discussed relating to sanitation services and placement and types 
of waste receptacles relating to development density and building type.  Mr. Emmons advised open 
space will be for HOA property owners and their guests and is not intended for public use.   Leroy 
Baluska, adjacent property owner, requested consideration to keep the current zoning and noted 
concerns including infill development, water runoff and drainage issues, increased traffic and 
design concept.    Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  It was noted by members of the governing body that while 
understanding the concerns raised, the property could be developed with 18 multi-residential units 
without the proposed zone change to NR-2 which is for the purpose of allowing for open space.  It 
was further noted that the developer will have to come back with the plat and prove concerns have 
been taken into consideration.  Explanation was provided regarding the purpose of infill 
development which is intended to fill open unused space.  Mr. Emmons clarified that although 
there may be a need to bring in extra dirt for the development, the intent is to keep the area as close 
to what is existing as possible.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Mr. Cook and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.   
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
clarify and better facilitate cottage lot development – referred to Public Services Committee.  
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving the Hitching Post Urban Renewal Plan and the Hitching Post 
Urban Renewal Project Pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15 -9-110, and approving the creation of a 
new Hitching Post Urban Renewal Authority Special Revenue fund .  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated August 10, 2021, seconded 
by Mr.  Segrave. Mayor Collins explained the substitute changes the funding category to a 
“fiduciary” fund instead of a  “special revenue” fund.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Appreciation was expressed to the governing 
body and city staff for their efforts on the plan for the community and it was noted it will be helpful 
for redeveloping challenging areas.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. (#6167) 
 
   
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Business 
Council under the Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for a Managed Data 
Center Cost Reduction Grant not to exceed $2,250,000.00 on behalf of the governing body of the 
City of Cheyenne.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by  
Dr. Aldrich.  Mr. Roybal explained the reason for removing this item from consent agenda was so 
the affiliated public hearing could take place prior to adoption of the resolution.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (RES #6168/CONT #7395) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities to discharge 
uncollectible debts in the amount of $1,138.02 pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §16 -4-502.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6169) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Ye ar 2021 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W. S. §16 -4-112 & §16 -4-113.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr.  White.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated August 11, 2021, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mayor Collins explained the substitute increases the Fire Department 
budget using excess funds in the Police Department budget for necessary expenses.  Motion to 
amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as 
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6170) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
District Boundaries for the ‘Golf, it’s the Least of our Problems’ Golf Tournament to be held on 
September 25, 2021 – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of the Nita M. Lowey 21st Century Community 
Learning Centers grant application to the Wyoming Department of Education on behalf of the 
Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne for continuation of grant funding in year four for 
afterschool programing and necessary support items (Nita M. Lowey 21st Century Grant Funding) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Instructing the City Clerk to defer acceptance of applications for the one 
(1) additional Retail Liquor License, as authorized to the City pursuant to provisions of Wyo. Stat. 
§ 12 -4-101, until a time frame in which to submit applications has been determin ed by the 
Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] Contract between Laramie County and the Office of Youth Alternatives for on -call crisis 
center services in the amount of $69,000.00 (revenue to C ity).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7389) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation & Events, and the 
Officials for Fun Club to officiate the 2021-2022 youth volleyball, adult volleyball, and adult co-
rec volleyball programs (Recreation Programs Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#7390) 
 
   
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization and LSC Transportation Consult ants, Inc., Colorado Springs, CO, for the 
2022 Transit Development Plan (MPO Federal Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in 
an amount not to exceed $99,711.00). (#7391) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Econolite  Systems, 
Inc., Anaheim, CA, for the 2021 Advanced Traffic Management System (ATMS) Software Project 
(2015-2018 and 2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Volunteers of American Northern Roc kies, 
Alcohol Receiving Center, Sheridan, WY, to provide alcohol and drug detoxification services to 
individuals (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor to provide a safe and secure 
environment to families who have been affected by abuse (General Fund)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide 
supportive senior services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contingency and Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Project 
Bison to perform duties as outlined in the Wyoming Business Council Business Ready Community 
Grant Program for a Managed Data Center Cost Reduction Grant to recoup accr ued utility 
expenses (WBC Managed Data Center Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #6 to Contract #5930 between the City of Cheyenne and Kone, Inc., 
Denver, CO, for the addition of an elevator located at the Judge Joseph M. Carey Cheyenne City 
Center Building (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an annual amount of 
$2,437.56). (#5930) 
    
 Contract Modification #2 to Contract #7256 between the City of Cheyenne and Dan Hart 
Patrol Service, LLC, Upton, WY, for the Happy Jack Landfill Phase 2, Cells 1, 2 and 3 Excavation 
Earthworks Project for an increase in rock excavation quantities and addition of Duke Energy 
Maintenance Road relocation (Solid Waste Fund).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve in an amount 
not to exceed $1,107,538.00, seconded by Mr.  White.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend with the 
$237,538.00 amount noted for replacement of the damaged road be approved only to the extent 
approved by the City Attorney following negotiations with Duke Energy over a proposed cost -
share, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mayor Collins explained the amendment is due to a road that 
had to be removed at the landfill that will need  replaced and th e amendment will allow for 
negotiations for funding of the road replacement.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Appreciation was 
expressed to City Attorney Michael O’Donnell for being willing to pursue a potential for recouping 
expenses relating to the reconstruction of the road.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the except of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  (#7256) 
   
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7072 for the Hazard Mitigation grant from the 
Wyoming Office of Homeland Security, in the amount of $191,430.85 for Dry Creek Drainage 
Planning by extending the term of the grant agreement to August 5, 2022 (DHS FEMA Grant-Dry 
Creek Drainage Plan).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7072) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7309 between the City of Cheyenne and Synergy 
Construction, LLC, Lovell, WY, for the Happy Jack Landfill Front Entrance and Scale House  
Project to build an on-site scale house building (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $62,730.80). (#7309) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6445 between the City of Cheyenne and AVI 
Professional Corporation, Cheyenne, for additional necessary design and construction 
management services for the 17 th Street Lighting Project (Specific Purpose Option Sales Tax) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-1-22 for furnis hing two (2) new 2021 4WD 72” front -mount 
mowers for City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation & Events Department (2015-2018 1% Sales 
Tax and Specific Purpose Sales Tax Funding ).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted 
bid from Heartland Kubota, Sheridan, WY, in an amount not to exceed $78,580.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-23-21 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Kaiser 
Corporation d/b/a Kaiser Flooring, Cheyenne, for the Municipal Building 3 rd Floor Carpet 
Replacement Project (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an 
amount not to exceed $73,233.00). (#7392) 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Reappointment of Lori Schoene and Rita Meyer to the Brownfields Revolving Loan Fund 
Committee.  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Appreciation was expressed 
by members of the governing body for Ms. Meyer and Ms. Schoene for their efforts and 
willingness to serve the community.  It was further noted that the individuals bring a lot of 
dedication and knowledge to the committee.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
 Appointment of Katie Brady, Bruce Heimbuck, Craig Kerrigan, Pete Laybourn, Anthony 
Ortiz, Stephanie Reece, and Wendy Volk, to the Downtown Development Authority.  Dr. Aldrich 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mr. Laybourn advised that although he does not 
believe he has a conflict restricting him from voting on the appointments, for the purpose of public 
perception, he will be abstaining from voting.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins  who did no t vote (mayoral appointments) 
and Mr. Laybourn who abstained. 
 
 
   
 Under other business: 
 
 Announcement was made that due to City offices being closed for the Labor Day holiday 
on Monday, September 6, 2021, regularly scheduled city Council Committee meetings will instead 
be held in the Municipal Building, Room 104, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and 
viz electronic conference meetings as follows:  Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, September 
7, 2021 at Noon and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday, September 8, 2021 at Noon.   
 
 Memorandum of Agreement between Robin and Debbie Courtier, the City of Cheyenne, 
and the Wyoming Department of Transportation for the study of downstream storm water 
problems.  Mayor Collins advised the city received the memorandum of agreement ( MOA) this 
afternoon with signatures and noted this agreement is somewhat different than the prior agreement.  
Mayor Collins referred the item to Public Services Committee.   
 
 Appointment of Stefanie Boster as City Attorney for the City of Cheyenne.  Mayor Collins 
announced Michael O’Donnell, current City Attorney, will retire on September 3rd and that he is 
pleased Ms. Boster has agreed to accept the position of City Attorney.  Mayor Collins advised Ms. 
Boster comes to the City with unique ideas as she was a previous council member for the City of 
Casper and has several years of valuable experience practicing law.  Mr. White moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote  (mayoral appointment).  City Clerk Kris Jones 
administered the oath of office to Ms. Boster. 
 
 Mayor Collins expressed appreciation to Mr. O’Donnell for his years of service to the City 
and advised this is his last council meeting as City Attorney.  Mayor Collins wished Mr. O’Donnell 
and his wife the best in their upcoming retirements.       
 
 Mr. Laybourn reported on a recent clean-up at the underpass of Lincolnway and Missile 
Drive, adjacent to MLK Park , and expressed appreciation to Councilman Johnson, city staff 
members Eric Fountain, Compliance Director, David Singleton, Assistant City Attorney, and 
members of his family, John Palmer, Compliance  Department, and members of the public 
Cameron Karajanis, Brock Lawrence and Holly Frank.  He explained the need for members of the 
governing body and the public to be aware of the magnitude of the problem along Crow Creek and 
that he feels the issue needs to be taken more seriously.  He advised this type of inha bitation has 
serious environmental impacts to the nearby Crow Creek.  He further noted that when homeless 
encampments occur it is hard to undo them as it is emotional for everyone involved  especially 
when children are affected.  Mr. Laybourn requested consideration for the city to begin discussions 
with the Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of developing a partnership in 
these types of areas to find some sort of solution and noted that if not, the issues will continue to 
occur.  Further discussion included the on-going efforts to redevelop blighted areas and the need 
to provide reasonable housing options to the homeless.  Mr. Johnson expressed appreciation to the 
Police Department for their assistance during the clean-up.     
  
 There being no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:00 p.m.   
   
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 2, 2021 