MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2021-09-13 | CLIP_ID: 816 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 816

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
September 13, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn  (arriving at 6:05 p.m.) , Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom 
Segrave and Jeff White.  Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was 
recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one mo tion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.  M r. White moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. 
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne 
voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 13, 2021.   Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MR Medium -Density Residential to NR -2 
Neighborhood Residential-Medium Density for land located north of and adjacent to Miller Lane, 
between Sunset Drive and Townsend Place.  Tammy Plunkett, adjacent property owner, reiterated 
comments and concerns voiced at the previous city council meeting related to the proposed zone 
change involving possible drainage and sewer issues, increased traffic, proposed type of 
development and the planned number of additional townhome residential units.  Ms. Plunkett 
expressed concerns with the proposed removal of Dean Court, which is the only access road that 
goes along Miller Lane, relating to emergency medical services (EMS) and police access to the 
area.  She noted she believes there is an error in the city’s staff report relating to blocks mentioned 
in the development and requested consideration to keep the current zoning.  Ms. Plunkett advised 
she has attended several meetings related to the proposed zone change and has talked to neighbors 
in the area.  Upon request by Mayor Collins for examples of mistakes made related to the proposed 
zone change as referenced by Ms. Plunkett, she noted the discrepancy in lots in the original staff 
report (which has been corrected) and that she doesn’t believe her concerns have been addressed  
as the proposed project will affect her and her property.  Ms. Plunkett requested consideration of 
tabling the matter.  Brad Emmons, AVI, and agent for the applicant, provided information on the 
cottage lot development type noting it has been in the community for some time.  Upon inquiry, 
Mr. Emmons explained the lot numeration error has been corrected in the staff report and many of 
the voiced concerns such as traffic, sewer, drainage, and emergency services access  have been 
discussed.  Mr. Emmons further advised the project’s sewer and water are being reviewed by the 
   
Board of Public Utilities (BOPU) and the sewer line up Dean Court will be abandoned as it doesn’t 
function and was previously a private line, therefore a new sewer line and water main will be 
installed.  Mr. Emmons noted the proposed project will include 18 1 bedroom 1 bath units and a 
traffic study has been turned in  as required by the city.  Upon further inquiry, Mr. Emmons 
explained the proposed amendment to the cottage lot development ordinance will affect the 
development and provided information on the ordinance amendment noting there are many 
requirements for this development type.  If the amendments to the cottage lot development 
ordinance aren’t approved, they would likely need a new concept under NR-2 zoning classification 
for the proposed project.  It was explained that during the final plat stage of the project, engineering 
drawings and additional exterior elevation requirements are submitted.  Tom Cobb, City Engineer, 
advised they have received a preliminary report for drainage for the infill development and final 
determination on drainage will be made during the next development step .  Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  
Johnson. Comment was made that under the current zone class ification of MR, the proposed 18 
units can be built but changing the zoning classification to NR -2 will allow the cottage lot 
development type which will include shared common outdoor space where Dean Court is currently 
located.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of 
Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. (#4394)   
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
clarify and better facilitate cottage lot development.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve o n second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Comments were made related to the current requirements of 
the cottage lot development being hard to meet and constituents concerns with patio type homes 
that use this type of lot.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Defining the Terms and Conditions of Employment for 
Sworn Officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2021 -2022 – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 2.76.020(B), Members -Terms-
Vacancies, of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, Administration and 
Personnel, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services 
Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AG Agricultural to MR Medium -Density 
Residential, HR High -Density Residential, MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis, and CB 
Community Business for land located northwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range 
Boulevard and Whitney Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne)     
 
 RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
District Boundaries for the ‘Golf, it’s the Least of our Problems’ Golf Tournament to be held on 
September 25, 2021.  Jeff White recused himself from discussion and voting due to  a family 
member’s employment affiliation with the Cheyenne Depot Museum and vacated council  
chambers.  Bryan Grzegorczyk provided information about the event noting it is a putt putt style 
   
golf tournament throughout several downtown businesses  that is a fundraiser for the Cheyenne 
Depot Museum and also brings business downtown .  Mr. Grzegorczyk stated 320 people 
participated in the event last year and over $18,000 was raised.  Upon inquiry, Kaylan Eicholtz , 
Cheyenne Depot Museum, noted there weren’t any open container issues or concerns with the 
event last year (or generally relating to open containers in the downtown area) and the request for 
permitting open containers is mainly so the tournament participants can carry their drinks 
throughout the tournament.  Cheyenne Police Department Chief Mark Francisco explained upon 
inquiry that there were no major problems with the open container allowance this year and the 
department can utilize the option of public intoxication citations when necessary. Additional 
comments were made related to the function of last year’s tournament and how some teams didn’t 
get to finish the game.  Mr. Grzegorczyk noted the event will be scaled down and only 2 teams 
will be at each hole.  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  It was noted the request 
for permitting open containers for the event is due to the event being scheduled outside of the 
Memorial Day to Labor Day open container timeframe that is allowed in the downtown district 
boundaries.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6171) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of the Nita M. Lowey 21st Century Community 
Learning Centers grant application to the Wyoming Department of Education on behalf of the 
Governing Body of the  City of Cheyenne for continuation of grant funding in year four for 
afterschool programing and necessary support items (Nita M. Lowey 21st Century Grant Funding).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6172) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Instructing the City Clerk to defer acceptance of applications for the one 
(1) additional Retail Liquor License, as authorized to the City pursuant to provisions of Wyo. Stat. 
§ 12 -4-101, until a time frame in which to submit applications has been determined by the 
Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6173) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – To honor William R. ‘Bill’ Dubois and his contributions to the arts and 
humanities in Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. 
Johnson and Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Miller Addition, 
5th Filing, a replat of Lots 7 -18, Block 3 and Dean Court, Miller Addition, Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located north of Miller Lane, between Sunset Drive and Townsend Place) – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the ‘201 Agreement’ for the owner of the property 
located at 5057 Loving Trail to allow installation of an on -site septic system located within the 
city – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
   
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Econolite Systems, 
Inc., Anaheim, CA, for the 2021 Advanced Traffic Management System (ATMS) Software Project 
(2015-2018 and 2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $154,626.00). (#7401) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Volunteers of American Northern Rockies, 
Alcohol Receiving Center, Sheridan, WY, to provide alcohol and  drug detoxification services to 
individuals (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$115,000.00). (#7402) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor to provide a safe and secure 
environment to families who have been affected by abuse (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $17,500.00). (#7403) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide 
supportive senior services (Gen eral Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $50,000.00). (#7404) 
 
[CA] Contingency and Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Project 
Bison to perform duties as outlined in the Wyoming Business Council Business Ready Community 
Grant Program for a Managed Data Center Cost Reduction Grant to recoup accrued utility 
expenses (WBC Managed Data Center Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7405) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Agreement between Robin and Debbie Courtier, the City of Cheyenne, 
and the Wyoming Department of Transportation for the study of downstream storm water 
problems.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7406) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the Wyoming Department 
of Transportation for Occupant Protection High Visibility Overtime -Traffic Enforcement 
(Highway Safety and Occupant Protection Hi -Vis Enforcement Grants) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the Wyoming Department 
of Transportation for Impaired Driving High Visibility Overtime -Traffic Enforcement (Highway 
Safety and Impaired Driving Hi-Vis Enforcement Grants) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Tourism Promotion 
Joint Powers Board, d/b/a Visit Cheyenne, regarding the partnership to develop planning and 
design for a first phase of the Cheyenne Railroad Visitor Experience – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Rental Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events 
Department, and the Cheyenne Capitals Youth Hockey Association for use of the Cheyenne Ice 
and Events Center (Revenue to the city) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
   
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events Department, 
and the Cheyenne Capitals Youth Hockey Association to authorize the purchase of advertising 
space inside the arena of the Cheyenne Ice and Events Center as identified (Revenue to the city) – 
referred to Finance Committee.   
  
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6445 between the City of Cheyenne and AVI 
Professional Corporation, Cheyenne, for additional necessary design and construction 
management services for the 17 th Street Lighting Project (Specific Purpose Option Sales Tax).  
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Johnson advised there was no recommendation from the 
committee.  Mr. Johnson moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave.   Comment was made that 
the modification includes review and maintenance of existing lights and the lights between Capitol 
and Central are on all day and night.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Collins explained the affiliated MOU 
has expired and will be reviewed  and the lights that are on during the day will  be addressed.  
Appreciation was expressed to Sam Berta, Construction Engineer, for his presentation of the 
modification at the Finance Committee meeting.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of 
the governing body. (#6445) 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Appointment of Robert Chamberlin and Robert Mathia to the Planning Commission.  Mr. 
Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exceptio n of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral 
appointments). 
 
 Notice of Emergency Procurement.  In accordance with the City of Cheyenne Purchasing 
Policy, an Emergency Procurement has been authorized by Mayor Collins for the emergency 
replacement of the damaged lighting controls and a damaged light pole at Christensen Road and 
Pershing Boulevard.  The emergency repairs have been authorized to Modern Electric for 
$35,140.00.  Mayor Collins explained a car crashed into the lights and signal control on the 
Christensen Road overpass causing a safety issue that needed immediate repair. 
 
 Under other business: 
 
  Mr. Johnson provided information on the Rooted in Cheyenne organization and advised 
they are looking for an additional 40 volunteers for an upcoming tree planting event to be held on 
September 18, 2021. 
 
 Mr. Johnson noted that due to the city’s recent naming policy changes, he began research 
to determine if there are any Cheyenne parks named after women , of which there are none. He 
requested this be considered if there are any acquired parks that need named.  
 
 Dr. Aldrich recognized the attendance of Lynn Huylar, Director of Safe Harbor and Erin 
LeBlanc, Director of Senior Services, and expressed appreciation for their services. 
 
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:40 p.m.   
   
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 22, 2021 
 