MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2021-09-27 | CLIP_ID: 818 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 818

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
September 27, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken  Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White.  
Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.   Upon request by Mr . Johnson, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Cook and Dr. Aldrich, agenda item #14 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave, 
agenda item # 21(c) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Segrave moved to approve 
remaining items, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 13, 2021.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
clarify and better facilitate cottage lot development. Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development  
Department, explained the proposed ordinance and amendment stating individual units also known 
as cottage and bungalow courts, contain a common outdoor open space.  He provided existing 
community examples of the development type noting they are townhome style units. Mr. Lloyd 
explained the objective of the ordinance proposal is to update current cottage lot type development 
regulations to allow for utilization of this type of development.  One current challenge is that there 
are only  10 units  allowed per development, which the amendment proposes to remove that 
restriction. Mr. Lloyd advised a proposed substitute ordinance will address a few issues that 
weren’t originally included in the ordinance amendment and will clean up language and formatting 
making it easier to read.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Lloyd explained the Planning and Development 
Department asked developers to review the existing cottage lot development regulations and 
provide feedback on issues and concerns. Regarding landscaping requirements, Mr. Lloyd stated 
cottage lot developments will require site plans that will address landscaping and will give more 
weight to water-wise landscaping.  Upon further inquiry, Mr. Lloyd speculated existing cottage lot 
developments may have been reviewed and processed as apartment complexes initially.  Mr. Lloyd 
further noted the exist ing cottage lot developments are townhome style  developments and the 
proposed amendment will allow single family, townhome  and multi-family developments.   
Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Division Chief Byron Mathews, upon inquiry, provided information on 
emergency services access noting with the development type, a 26’ access will be required on both 
sides of developments.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated 
September 24, 2021, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4395) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Defining the Terms and Conditions of Employment for 
Sworn Officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2021 -2022.  Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Aldric h.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 2.76.020(B), Members -Terms-
Vacancies, of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, Administration and 
Personnel, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second 
reading, second ed by Mr. Segrave. Upon inquiry, Deputy City Attorney  Alessandra McCoy 
Fakelman confirmed state statute indicates the mayor makes Downtown Development Authority 
(DDA) board appointments that includes a member of city council  which requires the governing 
body’s confirmation. She advised this  board differs from others as the council member  
representative is a voting member  and the change being proposed is for the council president to 
make the appointment with confirmation of the governing body.  Comment was made related to a 
requested upcoming review of the 22 boards and commissions that have council representation 
and how they function.  Upon further inquiry, Ms. McCoy Fakelman  provided the following 
information: not all board and commission memb ers are appointed by the mayor , but the statute 
related to this board specifically says members are  appointed by the mayor  and the council 
president doesn’t currently have authority to remove that appointed member.  Discussion followed 
and included the following topics: support for appointments on the DDA board remaining with the 
mayor, mayor’s authority to remove members from boards, history on a prior scenario involving 
a matter resulting in the suggested resignation of a member, the process of appointing  a council 
representative to boards that have a council representative , purpose of the ordinance amendment 
is to align with the historical practice of council representative appointment and that appointments 
will still be confirmed by the governing body.   Ms. McCoy Fakelman advised that because the 
DDA board is drafted differently than most boards, the statute says a member can be removed by 
governing body, confirming that would still be the case if the amendment is approved.  Ms. McCoy 
Fakelman explained upon inquiry that the ordinance amendment was reviewed by the previous 
city attorney and the recommendation was that the amendment could be made based on statute 
language. Discussion continued on the purview of the mayor appointing board members,  home 
rule, attorney’s office review of the ordinance prior to third and final reading and reports required 
to be presented to the governing body by boards.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave voting “no”. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AG Agricultural to MR Medium -Density 
Residential, HR High -Density Residential, MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis, and CB 
Community Business for land located northwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range 
Boulevard and Whitney Road.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
clarify the interpretation of Lots and amend Accessory Building Regulations – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) 
modifying the Density Standards of U DC 5.1.5D “Multi-Dwelling Buildings (Apartment)” Lot 
Types – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne)    
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
modify the MUR, MUB, and MUE zone districts’ intent, context, and transitions – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget o f the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6174) 
 
 RESOLUTION – To honor William R. ‘Bill’ Dubois and his contributions to the arts and 
humanities in Cheyenne, Wyoming. Dr. Rin ne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Mr. 
White, Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Laybourn expressed appreciation to Mr. Dubois and his 
historian and philanthropy contributions in the community over the years.  It was requested that a 
framed copy of the resolution be presented to Mr. Dubois’ family.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
- all members of the governing body. (#6175) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a final plat for Miller 
Addition, 5th Filing, a replat of Lots 7 -18, Block 3 and Dean Court, Miller Addition, Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Miller Lane, between Sunset Drive and Townsend 
Place).  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt with staff condition #1 to note ownership of Lots 1, 14 and 21, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Upon inquiry, Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development Department, 
explained the staff condition is for  the ownership of common lots. Mr. Lloyd reported that the 
adjacent land-owner’s concerns previously expressed will be addressed during the site plan phase 
of the project  and that all  project elements will be required to meet city code.   Concern was 
expressed related to adjacent land -owner’s concerns being addressed.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the go verning body  with the exception of Mr. L aybourn voting “no”. 
(#6176) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the ‘201 Agreement’ for the owner of the 
property located at 5057 Loving Trail to allow installation of an on -site septic system located 
within the city.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6177) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Whitney 
Ranch, 4th Filing, a plat of a portion of the southeast quarter of Section 23, Township 14 North, 
Range 66 West, of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of and 
adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road) – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting liquor license general guidelines for the review and evaluation 
of applications for a retail liquor license available through the City of Cheyenne, and establishing 
a time frame in which applications may be submitted to the City Clerk – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
District Boundaries for the DDA “Spirits & Spirits” Halloween Pub Crawl to be held on October 
23, 2021 – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in the submission of 
an application for federal assistance to the Federal Aviation Administration under the American 
Rescue Plan Act of 2021 to assist in fun ding costs related to operations, cleaning, sanitization, 
janitorial services, combating the spread of pathogens at the airport, and debt service payments – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the Wyoming Department 
of Transportation for Occupant Protection High Visibility Overtime -Traffic Enforcement 
(Highway Safety and Occupant Protection Hi -Vis Enforcement Grants).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7413) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Police Department, and the Wyoming Department 
of Transportation for Impaired Driving High Visibility Overtime -Traffic Enforcement (Highway 
Safety and Impaired Driving Hi-Vis Enforcement Grants).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#7414) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Tourism Promotion 
Joint Powers Board, d/b/a Visit Cheyenne, regarding the partnership to develop planning and 
design for a first phase of the Cheyenne Railroad Visit or Experience.   Deputy City Attorney  
Alessandra McCoy Fakelman advised the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is with the city 
and Visit Cheyenne to manage the first phase of the Cheyenne Railroad Visitor Experience Project.  
Ms. McCoy Fakelman provided project information and noted the City Engineer’s office is 
working in conjunction with Visit Cheyenne on the project.  Comment was made that before grant 
opportunities can be reviewed for the project, the first phase of the project must be completed. 
Domenic Bravo, Visit Cheyenne CEO, provided further information on the project noting it is part 
of the master plan that was unveiled in June of 2021 and the idea is to have a project manager to 
ensure the project is moving forward.   Brian Casey, Mr. B’s Heating & Cooling, stated they 
recently purchased a building at 15th and Bent and expressed support for the project and downtown 
development.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $ 120,000.00, seconded 
by Mr. White.  Comments were made related to the project funding source and appreciation was 
expressed to those who have worked on the project’s vision.  Upon inquiry, City Treasurer Robin 
Lockman advised the funding source for the project is the annexation loan fund  which contains 
about $250,000.00 and noted t here is a resolution that was adopted in  2010 that regulates and 
explains how the money in this fund can be spent.  Upon inquiry, City Engineer Tom Cobb advised 
currently the project’s first phase estimated total amount is $88,900.00.  During discussion related 
to funding language in paragraph #3(m), Dr. Rinne moved to delete paragraph #3(m), seconded 
by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – members of the governing body.  Upon 
inquiry, City Clerk Kris Jones noted the intent of the motion is clear to remove paragraph #3(m) 
which will result in renumbering remaining items.  Appreciation was expressed to Mr. Bravo for 
reaching out to businesses on 15th Street to get their buy in related to the project. Comments were 
made related to downtown improvements, private investments and it was noted the first project 
walkabout review will be Friday, October 1 st, beginning at 5:00 p.m. During comments made 
related to  the DDA board council representative, Mayor Collins raised a point of order that 
comments were not germane to the MOU.  Further comments were made related to an upcoming 
work session to the be held on October 8 th and community inquiries related to relocating the Big 
Boy steam engine from Holiday Park.   Main motion, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#7415) 
 
[CA] Rental Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events 
Department, and the Cheyenne Capitals Youth Hockey Association for use of the Cheyenne Ice 
and Events Center (Revenue to the city).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7416) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events Department, 
and the Cheyenne Capitals Youth Hockey Association to authorize the purchase of advertising 
space inside the arena of the Cheyenne Ice and Events Center as identified (Revenue to the city).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7417) 
  
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and BM C One, Inc., to provide SIP trunk 
communication services to the city for cost savings on analog phone circuits used for 911 calls at 
outlying city offices (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Purchase and sale agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Jerilou Lockhart to acquire 
real property (250,470 square feet along Railroad Right of Way East of Raleigh Drive) for 
expansion of the Greenway (Specific Purpose Sale Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the Wyoming D epartment of Health, Aging Division, to provide 
support services to persons 60 years or older under the Title III -B Program Grant for Fiscal Year 
2021 (Revenue to the city) (III-B Division on Aging Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Russel + Mills 
Studios, Inc., for the East Cheyenne Community Park Master Site Development Plan (Specific 
Purpose Sale Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City o f Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Office and Laramie 
County, Wyoming, for housing prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center (General Fund) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -2-22 for a contract between the City of Chey enne and Reiman 
Corp, for the LCCC Greenway Underpass Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax, WYDOT TAP 
Grant & WYDOT STPU Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -3-22 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp for the Carey Avenue Multi Use Path (Specific Purpose Sales Tax & WYDOT TAP Grant) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Appointment of Davi d E. Singleton to Municipal Court Part -Time Hearing Judge. Mr.  
Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Concern was expressed related to a recent 
public censure of Mr. Singleton from the Wyoming State Bar. City Attorney Stefanie Boster noted 
the censure is the purview of the State Bar and has been addressed and handled.  Ms. Boster and 
Mayor Collins both expressed support for the appointment of Mr. Singleton.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. 
Johnson voting “no” and Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointment).  City Clerk Kris 
Jones administered the oath of office to Mr. Singleton. 
 
 Reappointment of Kristin Lee to the Cheyenne Housing Authority.  Mr. W hite moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointment).   
 
 Announcement was made of Public Hearing to be held October 1 1, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Bijou, Inc. 
d/b/a Capitol Cinema 16, 3410 Concord Rd., Cheyenne, WY 82001.     
 
 Under other business: 
 
 Mr. Johnson advised he has been contacted by downtown property owners in the 
Downtown Development Authority District (DDA) who felt they weren’t properly informed when 
the DDA and Visit Cheyenne merged.  He advised the property owners would like transparency 
and to be provided information moving forward.  
  
 Dr. Aldrich provided information related to a concern raised to her from a resident related 
to lack of public information for a process change involving discarding wild game carcasses.  She 
advised there previously was a dumpster for this use located outside of the transfer station which 
has been removed. 
 
Mayor Collins requested the governing body meet in executive session to discuss a F ire 
Union litigation update and  a potential property acquisition. Mr. Segrave moved to meet in 
executive session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16-4-405(a)(iii) and 16-4-405(a)(vii), to consider 
or receive any information classified as confidential by law, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Mayor Collins announced members 
would meet in executive session, not open to the public; requested the Deputy City Attorney, City 
Clerk, City Treasurer and whomever the City Attorney’s office has approved to be present and  
stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the executive session, 
and that the regular City Cou ncil meeting would officially conclude at the close of the executive 
session. (Clerk’s Note: executive session convened at 7:26 p.m.).     
 
 Following closure of the executive session, Mayor Collins reconvened the regular meeting 
at 8:31p.m.   
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:32 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  October 7, 2021 
 
 