MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2021-10-11 | CLIP_ID: 820 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 820

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
October 11, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Richard Johnson, Pete 
Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne  (via Zoom) , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White.   Absent:  
Bryan Cook and Ke n Esquibel.  Also present: Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk.  The pledge of 
allegiance was recited. 
 
 Mayor Collins called for a moment of silence for Cliff Abraham, a Transit Department 
employee, who recently passed away. 
 
 PROCLAMATION-Designating October of 2021 as Community Planning Month.  Mayor 
Patrick Collins read the proclamation into the record in its entirety and provided details involving 
awards that were presented to staff members of the Planning  and Development Department for 
group and  individual honors.  Charles Bloom, Planning  and Development Director, provided 
congratulatory comments to his staff for their accomplishments.   Members of the Governing Body 
expressed appreciation to staff for their efforts. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.   Upon request by Mr . Laybourn, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. White and Dr. Aldrich, agenda items #25(b) and #25(d) were removed from the 
Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Johnson 
and Mr. White, agenda item #27(a) was removed from the consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 27, 2021.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a restaurant liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Bijou, Inc. d/b/a Capitol Cinema 16, 3410 Concord Rd., Cheyenne, 
WY 82001.  Robert Berger, Capitol Cinema  16, provide d details relating to the proposed 
dispensing and consumption areas which include the Club 21 area, movie auditoriums and dining 
area.  Mr. Berger advised the business plan is to serve single serve malt beverage and wine products 
only from one of their two proposed dispen sing areas and noted staff will be TIPS trained.   
Appreciation was expressed for Capitol Cinema 16 remaining in business during the pandemic and 
concern was expressed related to alcohol being allowed in all movie auditoriums.  There being no 
further comments or input, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application to 
Finance Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Defining the Terms and Conditions of Employment for 
Sworn Officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2021 -2022.  Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#4396) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 2.76.020(B), Members -Terms-
Vacancies, of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, Administration and 
Personnel, of  the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services 
Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Dr. 
Rinne moved to postpone to October 25, 2021, seconded by Mr.   Segrave.  Motion to postpone 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with the exception of Mr. 
Roybal voting “no”.   
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AG Agricultural to MR Medium -Density 
Residential, HR High -Density Residential, MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis, and CB 
Community Business for land located northwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range 
Boulevard and Whitney Road.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  Tom Cobb, City Engineer, upon inquiry, confirmed the preliminary development 
drainage alignment has been submitted for reviewed.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present.  (#4397) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
clarify the interpretation of Lots and amend Accessory Building Regulations.  Dr. Rinne moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Charles Bloom, Planning and Development 
Director, reported information will be provided at the next Public Services Committee meeting on 
October 19th addressing inquiries by members of the governing body.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) 
modifying the Density Standards of UD C 5.1.5D “Multi-Dwelling Buildings (Apartment)” Lot 
Types.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.      
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
modify the MUR, MUB, and MUE zone districts’ intent, context, and transitions .  Dr. Rinne  
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present.   
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating a new Section 10.04.110, Amnesty Program, of 
Chapter 10.04, General Provisions, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code  of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located southwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, Parkhill Road, and Panorama Drive – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultural Residential to MR 
Medium-Density Residential for land located southwest of the intersection of Braehill Road, 
Parkhill Road, and Panorama Drive – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. 
Rinne)  
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Whitney 
Ranch, 4th Filing, a plat of a portion of the southeast quarter of Section 23, Towns hip 14 North, 
Range 66 West, of the 6th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of and 
adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road).  Dr. Rinne move to adopt 
with the condition that the final plat will not be signed until the development agreement has been 
approved by the governing body , seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present.  (#6178) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Adopting liquor license general guidelines for the review and evaluation 
of applications for a retail liquor license available through the City of Cheyenne, and establishing 
a time frame in which applications may be submitted to the City Clerk .  Mr. Roybal moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute Liquor License General 
Guidelines dated October 1, 2021 , seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.    
Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with 
the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  (#6179) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open cont ainers within the Downtown 
District Boundaries for the DDA “Spirits & Spirits” Halloween Pub Crawl to be held on October 
23, 2021.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6180) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in the submission of 
an application for federal assistance to the Federal Aviation Administration under the American 
Rescue Plan Act of 2021 to assist in funding costs related to operations, cleaning, sanitization, 
janitorial services, combating the spread of pat hogens at the airport, and debt service payments .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6181) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Water 
Development Commission for grant funding for the Crystal Bypass Pipeline Project in the amount 
of $2,546,000.00 and authorizing the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the 
application and all related documents – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn)   
 
 
 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming State Loan 
and Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving Fund for the 
Crystal Bypass Pipeline Project in the amount of $1,254,000.00 and authorizing the Director of 
the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and all related documents – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the ‘201 Agreement’ for the owner of the 
property located at 2621 Granite Peak Drive to allow installation of on -site sewage holding tanks 
(septic system) located within the City – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. 
Rinne)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the ‘201 Agreement’ for the owner of the 
property located at 8910 Hutchins Drive to allow installation of on -site sewage holding tanks 
(septic system) located within the City – referred to Public Ser vices Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. 
Rinne)   
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and BMC One, Inc., to provide SIP trunk 
communication services to the city for cost savings on analog phone circuits used for 911 calls at 
outlying city offices (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $10,764.00). (#7424) 
 
 Purchase and sale agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Jerilou Lockhart to acquire 
real property (250,470 square feet along Railroad Right of Way East of Raleigh Drive) for 
expansion of the Greenway (Specific Purpose Sale Tax) . Mr. Roybal moved to approve  in an 
amount not to exceed $240,000.00, seconded by Mr. White. Upon inquiry,  Jeanie Vetter, 
Greenway and Parks Planner, provided information rela ting to th e property acquisition, project 
funding source, and explained there will be additional acquisitions relating to the project.  Charles 
Bloom, Planning and Development Director, provided additional information involving property 
zoning.  Motion carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#7425) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the Wyoming Department of Health, Aging Division, to provide 
support services to persons 60 years or older under the Title III -B Program Grant for Fiscal Year 
2021 (Revenue to the city) (III-B Division on Aging Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#7426) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Russel + Mills 
Studios, Inc., for the East Cheyenne Community Park Master Site Development Plan (Specific 
Purpose Sale Tax) .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve  in an amount not to exceed $83,260.00, 
seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Jeanie Vetter, Greenway and Parks Planner, upon inquiry, provided 
information on the request for proposal process as regulated by the City’s Purchasing Policy.  Ms. 
Vetter advised Russell + Mills scored the highest of  three (3) proposals received.  Discussion 
included estimated project start time of October 2021 and drainage design for underpasses and 
tunnels. Upon inquiry, Tom Cobb, City Engineer,  provided funding information which includes 
submitting grant applications and advised the preliminary design has been submitted to the Union 
Pacific Railroad for review.  Discussion included:  Desire for a public swimming facility on the 
east side of town, review and remediation of any area drainage issues, and support for completion 
of one of City Council’s annual goals.  Motion carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  (#7427) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Office and Laramie 
County, Wyoming, for housing prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center (General Fund).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7428) 
 
[CA] Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie 
County to provide services to various community programs (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of Transportation 
(WYDOT) for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Grant to assist in providing a local match 
for operating funds for the Transit Program for Fiscal Year 2022 – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] 2021-2022 Collective Labor A greement between the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and 
Cheyenne Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7287 between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Metropolitan Planning Organization ( MPO), and Benchmark Engineers, PC, Cheyenne, for 
additional professional services for the Walterscheid Boulevard Reconstruction Plan (MPO 
Federal Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S -2-22 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp for the LCCC Greenway Underpass Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax, WYDOT TAP 
Grant & WYDOT STPU Grant) .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$1,923,333.40, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Upon inquiry, Tom Cobb, Cit y Engineer, and Jean ie 
Vetter, Greenway and Parks Planner, provided project information involving funding partnerships 
and grant opportunities and current and future Greenway connection proposals in the area.  Motion 
carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#7429) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -3-22 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp for the Carey Avenue Multi Use Path (Specific Purpose Sales Tax & WYDOT TAP Grant).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $806,008.55). (#7430) 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Appointment o f Roberta Coates to the Police Civil Service Commission.  Mr. Segrave 
moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body  present with the exception of  Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral 
appointment). 
 
 Report of Community Facility Fees for Fiscal Year 2020-2021 pursuant to Section 4.2.5 of 
the Unified Developmen t Code (UDC).  Charles Bloom , Planning  and Development Director, 
provided information on the ann ual report which included  the source of  fees collected by 
subdivision/development, disbursement of fees, and balance in fee accounts as of June 30 th.  Mr. 
Bloom noted the total fee collection of $495,044.00 and expenditures in the amount of $115,763.00 
for fiscal year 2021 leaving a total ending fund balance of $979,347.00.  Comments were made 
relating to positive efforts in collection of  outstanding fees and appreciation was expressed to 
previous governing bodies for their foresight in creation of the fee process.   Mr. Segrave moved 
to acknowledge receipt of the report, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
    
 Announcement was made of Public Hearing to be held October 25, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Penstemon 
Business LLC d/b/a Bella Fuoco, 2115 Warren Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
  
 Under other business: 
 
 Mr. White expressed appreciation to Jennifer McClelland, Executive Assistant to the City 
Council, and members of  Information Technology  for their efforts involving acquiring and 
installation of technical equipment in Council Chambers.  Mayor Collins echoed Mr. White ’s 
comments and expressed appreciation to Andrew Hays, Civic Center , for his involvement in the 
process.      
 
 Dr. Aldrich expressed appreciation to Sgt. Mark Solberg, Cheyenne Police Department, 
for his recent presentation involving property crimes in the city.   
 
 Dr. Aldrich announced City Council Ward III will be holding a Council and Coffee event 
on Saturday, October 16th from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. at Dazbog Coffee (3911 E. Pershing Blvd.).      
 
 Mr. Johnson expressed appreciation to fellow council members on their collective efforts 
in accomplishing many of their goals for this year.   
 
 Mr. Laybourn provided comments regarding the Consent Agenda process, the importance 
of public involvement and his desire to thoroughly provide funding information to the public.    
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:05 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kylie N. Soden,   
Deputy City Clerk, CMC 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  October 20, 2021 
 
 