MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2021-11-22 | CLIP_ID: 826 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 826

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
November 22, 2021 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at Storey Gym, 2811 House Ave.,  and via electronic conference meeting.  Present 
were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, 
Ken Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and 
Jeff White.  Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.   
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the des ignation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.   Upon request by  Mr. Roybal, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. White and Dr. Aldrich, agenda item  #19(c) was removed from the Consent 
Agenda.  Upon request by  Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook and Mr. 
Laybourn, agenda item  #19(b) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. White m oved to 
approve remaining items, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 8, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a limited retail liquor license transfer of location 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for AmVets Post 10, from 3839 E. Lincolnway to 
1820 Ridge Rd., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Upon inquiry, Kristina F. Jones , City Clerk, advised the 
applicant was present and available for question s.  Ms. Jones further advised the transfer was 
requested as the business is changing their physical location.  There being no further comments or 
input, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee.   
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
modify Articles 2.1 and 2.2 regarding posted and published notice requirements for divisions of 
land and zoning applications.   Reporting for  Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4404) 
  
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 15.08.031, Building Permit Fees -
Exceptions for Incentivization Program, of Chapter 15.08, International Building Code Adopted, 
of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
reinstate the City of Cheyenne Core Development Incentivization Program.  Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. 
Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated November 15, 2021, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. 
Roybal explained that although the Finance Committee recommended approving a substitute 
ordinance dated November 15, 202 1, staff recommends defeating that substitute and i nstead 
approving a revised substitute ordinance dated November 22, 2021.  Motion to amend failed.  
Voting ‘no” – all members of the governing body .  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute 
dated November 22, 2021, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  It was noted the s ubstitute clarifies that the 
Planning & Development Department will be responsible for project management.  Comments and 
concerns were made related to the eligible proposed area being only for the downtown core area  
and sunset clause.  Discussion included ability to amend the ordinance in the future, if necessary, 
after sufficient data is reviewed.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Main motion as amended carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  
(#4405) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northeast of the intersection of Old Happy Jack Road and Westland Road .  D r. Rinne 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.   Motion carried.   Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body.     
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial to LI Light Industrial 
for land located northeast of the intersection of Old Happy Jack Road and Westland Road .  Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.   Motion carried.   Votin g 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.     
  
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from HR High -Density Residential to CB 
Community Business for land located southeast of and adjacent to the intersection of Western Hills 
Boulevard and Osage Avenue .  Mr. Segrave declared a conflict of interest due to a business 
partnership with the developer.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. 
Aldrich.  Motion carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Mr. Cook who voted “no” and Mr. Segrave who did not vote.         
    
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for 
Meadowlark Estates, 2 nd Filing, a replat of Tract 1 and a portion of Tracts 2 -9 of Meadowlark 
Estates, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of and adjacent to the 
intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Whitney Road) .  Trey Rinne, AVI, agent for the 
applicant, made himself available for questions.  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt with the condition that 
the final plat would not be signed until the development agreement has been approved by the 
governing body, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
(#6186) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts pursuant 
to Wyoming Statute §16-4-502.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6187) 
 
 
 
 RESOLUTION – Certifying the Converse Avenue Reconstruction Plan.  Dr. Rinne moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Rande Pouppirt, area business/property owner, requested 
consideration of approving the alternate design which would not affect the current number of his 
parking spaces, noting the preferred design would remove one half of his available parking.  MPO 
Director Tom Mason provided details on the design process and explained options will be 
reviewed by the City Engineer prior to implementation.  Upon inquiry, Tom Cobb, City Engineer, 
explained a consultant will be obtained for review of design options which will include the entire 
intersection, there will be  public hearings throughout the process for public vetting and that the 
final design does not typically come back for gove rning body approval.  Following request by 
members of the governing body, Mr. Cobb committed to bringing the final design options before 
the governing body prior to implementation.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the  exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  
(#6188)  
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Grant for a restroom facility in Saddle Ridge Park  – referred to Finance 
Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)          
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Emergency Management Agency 
Preparedness Grant application under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, on behalf of 
the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne, for the purpose of purchasing new vehicle exhaust 
systems for existing fire station infrastructure  – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal)          
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Fed eral Emergency Management Agency 
Preparedness Grant application under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, on behalf of 
the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne, for the purpose of purchasing a new medium rescue 
vehicle and Rapid Intervention Te am training and program development  – referred to Finance 
Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)          
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Designating the allocation of WyoLotto  Revenues to the City of 
Cheyenne be distributed to Community Recreation and Events for the purpose of construction, 
remediation, and completion of quality of life projects in the City of Cheyenne for a five (5) year 
period – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson)         
 
[CA] Grant of Access Easement and Temporary Construction Easement on City Owned 
Property, Tract H, Sweetgrass 1st Filing, between the City of Cheyenne and Sweetgrass Land Co. 
LLC.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#7449)    
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Plan One Architects, 
for the Level I/Level II Feasibility Study for 15 th Street Corridor Plan (Annexation Improvement 
Fund).  Mr. Segrave moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $100,000.00, seconded by Mr. 
White.   Dr. Rinne moved to amend by deleting Reed Ave nue funds from Exhibit A -Scope of 
Work, Section (l), seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Roybal voting “yes”.  Planning & Development 
Director Charles Bloom provided details relating to the scope of work on the project.  Comments 
were made regarding use of 1% S pecific Purpose Tax funding and overages, funding sources 
available for the project and opposition to allocation of 2017 Reed Avenue Corridor tax funds.  
Discussion included review of the 2017 1% Specific Purpose Tax ballot projects, faith of the voters 
relating to use of tax dollars  and ballot language clarification.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by 
excluding the use of 2017 Specific Purpose Tax funds for Reed Avenue in Exhibit A -Scope of 
Work Section (l), seconded by Mr. White.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Esquibel, Mr.  Johnson and Mr. Segrave voting 
“no”.  Main motion  as amended carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
(#7450) 
       
 Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Swagger Construction, LLC, 
for Tax Increment Financing for the Hitching Post Plaza (TIF Funding).  Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve in an amount not to exceed $1,200,000.00, seconded by Mr. White.  City Att orney 
Stefanie Boster requested support for a substitute agreement dated November 19, 2021 along with 
additional language clarification in Section 9-B: Reimbursement.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by 
substitute dated November 19, 2021 which included a friendly amendment to change the following 
language to Section 9-B: Reimbursement – “Developer grants, conveys, and assigns to Lender the 
right to receive all reimbursements from the City for the actual and reasonable costs incurred for 
Developer Work, reimbursement shall occur from the actual tax increment allocation generated by 
the property, additional security for the loan granted from Lender to Developer.  Lender’s right to 
receive reimbursement from the City shall continue until the balance of the loa n is paid in full or 
otherwise agreed to in writing and signed by Developer, and Lender, and delivered to the City ”, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson.   Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body.  Main motion as amended carried.   V oting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
(#7451) 
 
[CA] Telecommunications Right -of-Way License and Use Agreement between Sprint 
Communications Company L.P. and the City of Cheyenne. – referred to Finance Committee.                      
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-3-22 for furnishing one (1) new 2021-2022 1 ton, regular cab, full 
size pickup truck, 4x4, with an 8-foot box and a fleet work truck package for the City of Cheyenne, 
Community Recreation & Events Department -Weed & Pest Division (Weed & Pest Fund) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Greiner Ford, Casper, WY in an amount 
of $36,331.00). 
                 
 [CA] Consideration of Bid #E-4-22 for furnishing two (2) new 2021 -2022, 11 feet wide diesel 
rotary mowers for the City of Cheyenne, Community R ecreation & Events Department -Parks 
Division (2015 -2018 and 2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from LL Johnson Distributing Company, Denver, CO in an amount of $16,781.22). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-6-22 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Mountain 
Masonry for the Airport Fountain Phase II – Terracotta Restoration (Historic Preservation Board, 
SHPO Grant and CTF Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
                
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Motorola Solutions / 
Bearcom for the purchase of Motorola APX Next radios for the City of Cheyenne Police 
Department, and Motorola APX 1500 radios for the City of Cheyenne Public Works Department, 
Street and Alley Division  (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.        
                
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Notice of Emergency Procurement.  In accordance with the City of Cheyenne  Purchasing 
Policy, an Emergency Procurement has been authorized by Mayor Collins for the purchase of a 
replacement lighting console for the Cheyenne Civic Cent er, as the existing console has failed 
beyond repair.  The emergency procurement has been authorized to Brown Note Productions for 
$51,097.19.      
 
 Under other business:   
 
 Upon inquiry, Community Recreation & Events Director Teresa Moore provided details 
relating to the necessity of the Emergency Procurement.  Ms. Moore advised the lighting console 
failed beyond repair and due to previously schedule events at the Civic Center, it became necessary 
to replace the equipment to meet the requirements of those event contracts.  Ms. Moore reported 
on funding sources used for the purchase which include funds from fundraising and Shutter Venues 
funding, noting they did solicit quotes.  Purchasing Manager TJ Barttelbort provided information 
on the normal bidding process and associated timelines.  It was further noted that expenses 
associated with an option of renting the necessary equipment would have become more expensive 
than the emergency purchase. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:16 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
       
 
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 3, 2021 