MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-01-10 | CLIP_ID: 833 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 833

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 10, 2022 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at the Cheyenne Civic Center, 510 W. 20th St., and via electronic conference meeting.  
Present were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan 
Cook, Ken Esquibel (via Zoom), Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, 
Tom Segrave and Jeff White.  Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance 
was recited. 
 
 Election of City Council President for 2022.   Mayor Collins announced that pursuant to 
Title 2 of Cheyenne City Code the Mayor conducts the election for the office of City Council 
President but does not cast a vote.  Mr. White nominated Mr. Roybal, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. 
Roybal accepted the nomination.  There being no further nominations, Dr. Aldrich  moved to cease 
nominations, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Motion to nominate and elect Mr. Roybal as City Coun cil President for 2022 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Mayor Collins presented a plaque to 
Mr. White in appreciation of his time as Council President for 2021.   
 
 Election of City Council Vice-President for 2022.  Mayor Collins announced that pursuant 
to Title 2 of Cheyenne City Code the Mayor conducts the election for the office of City Council 
Vice-President but does not cast a vote.  Mr.  Cook nominated Mr. Johnson, seconded by Mr.  
Roybal.  Mr. Johnson accepted the nomination.  There being no further nominations, Dr. Aldrich 
moved to cease nominations, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body.  Motion to nominate and elect Mr. Johnson as City Council Vice-President 
for 2022 carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seco nded by Mr. White. 
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 28, 2021.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
         
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, to create the definitions, ‘Functional Turf’ and ‘Non -Functional Turf’ and 
amending various sections of Article 6 .  Brad Brooks, Director of Board of Public Utilities  
(BOPU), expressed BOPU’s  overall support of the  ordinance and expressed appreciation to 
Planning and Development and BOPU staff who have worked on the ordinance.  Mr. Brooks 
provided information on the amount of water the city is permitted to utilize and  water sources 
noting the ordinance change is proactive to preserve water.  Mr. Brooks further provided 
information on several proposed projects that will result in additional water including:  enlarging 
water reservoirs, optimization of snake system, recycled water system expansion , Belvoir well 
field expansion, well field ground penetration project (map of possible groundwater) and utilizing 
recycled waste water which will free up water sources.  Mr. Brooks advised it is estimated that the 
city can probably survive for 3 years on the current water supply if no additional water was to be 
received.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr . Johnson .  Appreciation was expressed to Mr. Brooks for his 
overview of the city’s water supply and comments were made on the following: importance of 
attractive landscaping requirements for businesses, importance of ongoing water conserv ation 
efforts, businesses still being able to have bluegrass if they wish and the importance of Planning 
and Development staff working with developers and the community to help them understand the 
definition of functional vs. non -functional turf.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Mr. Segrave voting “no”. (#4409)        
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development – 
Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 
5.6.2 PUD - Planned Unit Development District of the Unified Development Code, Amending 
Ordinance No. 4232 by modifying certain standards of the Adopted District, Planned Unit 
Development (PUD), for a portion of Sections 8 & 9, all of the W1/2 Sect ion 14, a portion of the 
E ½ E ½ of Section 17, and all of Sections 15, 16, & 21; Township 13 North, Range 66 West of 
the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming  (Located to the southeast of the intersection of E. College 
Drive and Avenue C) .  Casey Palma, Palm a Land Planning, agent for the owner, provided 
information on the Sweetgrass PUD that was approved in 2018 with certain requirements noting 
the proposed development area has 1,400 sq. ft. of open space. He advised the owner looked at the 
PUD and what might be discouraging and certain provisions seemed excessive.  When there is a 
parcel in a PUD which is contiguous with  the Greenway, some of the burden can be reduced to 
provide affordable housing.   Upon inquiry, Mr. Palma provided informat ion on the requested 
proposed change to the PUD which includes 40% contiguity to the Greenway and does not require 
a clubhouse in the development noting this doesn’t water down code requirements but is a balance 
for the need of providing affordable housing with the open space and connectivity to the Greenway.  
Upon further inquiry, Mr. Palma explained th e proposed  change wouldn’t just affect this 
development because it is a change to the PUD in its entirety and only certain properties meet the 
requirement o f 40% contiguity to Greenway.  Upon further inquiry , Mr. Palma explained th e 
ordinance change isn’t for the development construction piece which is reviewed through the site 
plan process.  In response to a comment made regarding commitment of the development being 
affordable housing, Mr. Palma advised as agent of  the owner and representing HOA entities, it 
isn’t something they necessarily have complete control over  and the ordinance change allows for 
increased density.  He further advised this is a way to reduce costs for the developer which enables 
them to provide more density and lower costs for renters.  Mr. Palma explained upon inquiry, that 
proper notification was made to adjacent properties related to Greenway access , open space, etc. 
and advised the proposed change does not reduce the overall open space in Sweetgrass.  Mr. Palma 
provided further project information including:  Greenway and trails plan in  the PUD, project is 
within 1,000 ft. of green space in commercial area , the parcel has direct access through a tunnel 
being constructed  to LCCC and the demographic for the units will likely  be students  and as 
Sweetgrass moves south, there’s less contiguity to greenway and burden would be higher to find 
40% contiguity.   Upon inquiry, Connor White, Planning and Development Department, explained 
that in the past 2 years developments with 100 units have been very minimal, and generally they 
see 80-90 unit developments.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. White. Upon inquiry, Charles Bloom, Director of Planning and Development, explained 
the scope of the Sweetgrass development seems to change, but currently there are 3-4 lots that can 
support 100 -unit developments. Comments were made on the following: opposition of the 
ordinance change as it will apply to other properties and developments not just Sweetgrass, staff’s 
original recommendation of  25 units wi th 40% contigu ity to the G reenway, large apartment 
complexes typically include a clubhouse, how the proposed ordinance change could push people 
into city parks which could burden city employees to maintain increased park population and 
concern that there is no guarantee the development will be affordable housing.    Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  
Voting “no” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mayor Collins and Mr. Segrave. (#4410)  
        
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Ordinance No. 4396 Defining the Terms and 
Conditions of Employment for Sworn Officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 
2021-2022.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr . White.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend  by substitute Exhibit B which 
includes the $1.50 wage increase approved at the December 28,  2021 meeting of the gov erning 
body, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute Exhibit B carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body.   Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4411) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Chapter 10.76, Abandoned Vehicles, of Title 
10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body.  
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Chapter 8.60, Nuisances, of Title 8, Health 
and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes ” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Chapter 6.08.200, Keeping of Bees, of 
Chapter 6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Upon inquiry, Mr. Johnson explained there are no changes from when the state updated their 
requirements in 2015, the amendment just moves the section from Nuisance to Animals in the city 
code.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the Zoning Classification from CB Community Business to MUB Mixed-Use 
Business Emphasis for land located northwest of the intersection of Nationway and Logan Avenue 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §16 -4-112 & §16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6205)  
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Plan One Architects, 
for the Emergency Response Facility design and construction Administration Services Project 
(Specific Purpose Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$752,580.00). (#7465) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between WYDOT and the Cheyenne MPO for the Transit 
Connection Feasibility Analysis: Northern Colorado to Southern Wyoming.  Dale Steenbergen, 
President/CEO of the Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, spoke in support of the project  
noting the importance of studying transportation along the front range. Mr. Steenbergen advised 
there are a few transportation projects for the front range in the works including Bustang (bus that 
currently goes from Ft. Collins to Denver) and the possibility of a front range rail.  Mr. Steenbergen 
noted the MOU and analysis will be pivotal for transportation between Wyoming and Colorado.  
Mr. Roybal moved to approve in an amount of $43,108.85, seconded by Mr . Johnson.  Concern 
was expressed that with increased options of transportation on the front range, we may be 
incentivizing people to live in Colorado and work in Wyoming.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Esquibel voting “no”. (#7466) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO) and HDR Engineering, Inc., for the Transit Connection Feasibility 
Analysis:  Northern Colorado to Southern Wyoming .  Tom Mason, MPO Director, advised th e 
agreement is for the Wyoming portion of the study  and that transportation choices will vary.  He 
noted the study is for transit feasibility between Cheyenne and northern Colorado. Upon inquiry, 
Mr. Mason advised the study will take approximately 1 year and w ill include determining how 
many people in the community currently commute daily and will determine if there is a demand 
for van pooling or to extend the Bustang route which currently ends at  the Harmony/1-25 
interchange.  Mr. Roybal advised there was no r ecommendation from the Public Services 
Committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve in an amount of $86,217.70, seconded by Mr.  White.  
It was expressed that it is believed our community  has experts to provide the study services.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. 
Esquibel voting “no”. (#7467) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-9-22 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Sustainable 
Modular Management, for the Compost Facility Prefabricated Metal Office Trailer Project (Solid 
Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $118,794.00). 
(#7468) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-7-22 for furnishing fourteen (14) new four-door 2022-2023 model 
utility (SUV) Police Interceptors, for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department (2019 -
2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Duval Ford/Dana 
Safety Supply, Jacksonville, FL and Livingston, MT, in an amount not to exceed $839,510.10). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-22-21 for furnishing One (1) ¾ ton crew cab truck for the Traffic 
Division, one (1) ¾ ton regular cab truck for the Facilities Maintenance Division, and three (3) ¾ 
ton crew cab trucks for the Street and Alley Division (2015 -2018 & 2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Spradley Barr Motors d/b/a Ken Garff , 
Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $237,040.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Motorola 
Solutions/Bearcom, for the purchase of Fourteen (14) Motorola APX8500 Radios for the City of 
Cheyenne Police Department (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(in an amount not to exceed $60,192.83). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-9-22 for furnishing three (3) new multi-purpose response vehicles 
(type 1 pumpers) and one (1) 100’ heavy duty aerial tower, for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Fire & Rescue Department (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.   
                
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
  
 Appointment of  Jeffrey Storey to the Airport Board.  Mr.  Roybal moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (Mayoral appointment). 
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday on Monday, 
January 17, 2022, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held as 
follows: Finance Committee will meet at Noon on Tuesday, January 18, 2022 and Public Services 
Committee will meet at Noon on Wednesday, January 19, 2022 at the Kiwanis Community House 
at 4603 Lions Park Drive, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting. 
  
 Under other business:   
  
 Bill Gonzales, Street and Alley Division, requested equitable benefits across the board for 
City employees when there is a snow related closure.  He explained his division is responsible for 
reporting to work for snow removal and there is no compensation for the work performed.  Mayor 
Collins expressed appreciation to Mr. Gonzales and his co-workers for their services. 
 
 Mr. Johnson noted the governing body  goal setting session will be held on Saturday, 
January 15th, and that Mr. Gonzales’ request is a planned topic of discussion.   
 
 Dr. Aldrich advised a Ward III Council and Coffee will be held this Saturday, January 15th, 
from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. at Dazbog Coffee, 3911 E. Pershing Blvd.  She also invited members of the 
governing body to attend the event “In Her Shoes” that will be held January 11-January 13th at 
the Kiwanis Community House, 4603 Lions Park Drive .  She reported Safehouse hosts the role 
playing session and attendees participate as being in domestic violence relationships. 
 
 Mr. White thanked his City Council colleagues for a successful year and wished Mr. 
Roybal well in his upcoming Council Presidency.  He also advised he is looking forward to the 
upcoming governing body goal setting session  noting it was very helpful last year.  He further 
expressed appreciation to the public, members of the governing body and city staff and particularly 
Jennifer McClelland, Executive Assistant to the City Council.   
 
 Mayor Collins advised the January 24,  2022 City Council meeting will be held at  Storey 
Gym, 2811 House Avenue beginning at 6:00 p.m. and thanked the Civic Center staff for use of the 
facility for the meeting.   
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:05 p.m.   
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 20, 2022 