MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-01-24 | CLIP_ID: 834 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 834

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 24, 2022 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at Storey Gym, 2811 House Ave.,  and via electronic conference meeting.  Present 
were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, 
Ken Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and 
Jeff White.  Also present: Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the desi gnation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 10, 2021.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
         
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Chapter 10.76, Abandoned Vehicles, of Title 
10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White.    
Comments were made in support of the ordinance and appreciat ion was expressed to Captain 
David Janes, Police Department, for his efforts on the ordinance.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. (#4412) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Chapter 8.60, Nuisances, of Title 8, Health 
and Safety, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. (#4413) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Chapter 6.08.200, Keeping of Bees, of 
Chapter 6.08, Animal Care and Control Regulations Generally, of Title 6, Animals, of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4414) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the Zoning Classification from CB Community Business to MUB Mixed-Use 
Business Emphasis for land located northwest of the intersection of Nationway and Logan Avenue.  
Reporting fo r Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Upon inquiry, Charles Bloom, Director of the Planning & Development 
Department, provided information on the proposed development and advised the Planning 
Commission recommended approval.  Mr. Bloom reported the development involves a demolition 
and rebuild of the current dog grooming business  currently on the property.  Upon inquiry, Eric 
Fountain, Director of the Compliance Department, explained vehicles adjacent to  the property 
have temporary registration and 2 shipping containers of junk have been removed from the area.   
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 13.04 – Public Utilities Generally; 
Chapter 13.08 – Water Service System; Chapter 13.12 – Sewer System; Chapter 13.16 – Storm 
Sewers; and Chapter 13.20 – Wastewater Treatment & Disposal; of Title 13 – Public Services, of 
the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Johnson)  
 
 RESOLUTION –Establishing and adopting a Parking Fine Schedule for parking fees 
pursuant to City Code Section 10.60.040.  Dr. Aldrich advised the item was reviewed under other 
items for the agenda at the January 18, 2022 Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of 
Title 2 of City Code have been met.  Dr. Aldrich moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “ yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. 
Johnson and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  (#6206) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing up to a $14,890,000 interfund loan from the One Percent 
Sales Tax Capital Projects Fund to the Special Purpose Option Sales Tax Capital Projects Fund to 
facilitate the construction of three fire stations, purchase fire trucks and replace the cemetery 
irrigation system as approved by voters on the November 2, 2021 Sixth Penny Ballot – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Emergency Management Agency 
Preparedness Grant under the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) 
Program, on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne, for the purpose of adding nine 
new firefighter positions – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying Planning Commission Action amending the Future Land Use 
Maps of PlanCheyenne changing the land use category from Community Business to Mixed -Use 
Commercial for property generally located west of Campbell Avenue, north of Nationway, and 
south of and adjacent to E. Lincolnway – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Cook) 
 
[CA] Grant of Right-of-Way Easement on City Owned Property, per Exhibit A, between the City 
of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power Company for a 150’ wide right -of-way and 
easement for construction and maintenance of overhead power facilities – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between City of Cheyenne and Doran Lummis to 
authorize filing of platting applications(s) for City-owned lands for the purpose of access to future 
development – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6957 between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming 
Cattle Co., LLC adding the Mariah Pasture and extending the term of the Belvoir Ranch Grazing 
Lease Agreement through December 31, 2024 – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Contract #6441 between the City of Cheyenne and Microsoft 
Corporation for the renewal to the City’s Enterprise Office 365 Online Enrollment – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-9-22 for furnishing three (3) new multi-purpose response vehicles 
(type 1 pumpers) and one (1) 100’ heavy duty aerial tower, for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Fire & Rescue Department.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Front Range 
Fire Apparatus, Frederick, Colorado, in an amount not to exceed $3,740,216.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-7-22 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and S&S 
Builders, LLC, for the Street and Alley Department Tent Building Repairs and Door Repairs 
Project (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-8-22 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Front 
Range Roofing Systems, LLC, for the Ice and Events Center Roof Replacement Project (General 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and KONE, Inc., for the repair 
of the South East  Hydraulic Elevator located at the Jack Spiker Parking Garage (General Fund 
Reserves) – referred to Finance Committee. 
               
 Upon inquiry, City Treasurer Robin Lockman advised the contract related to the Knife 
River voucher would be provided to members of the governing body.  No further comments were 
made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement of a Public Hearing was made to be held February 14, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. at 
Storey Gym (LCSD #1 Board Room), 2811 House Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditi ons required by 
Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for 521 Southwest Drive (located east of Southwest Drive, south 
of I-80). 
   
 Under other business:   
 
 Chris Layman expressed concerns relating to  the 26th Street construction project which 
included: deep open holes , mud, pedestrian difficulty navigating the area , delay of project 
completion, safety hazards and major inconvenience for the last 8 months.   Ms. Layman advised 
she was given a time frame in which the project would be completed by the construction manager, 
noting that time frame has since past.   Mayor Collins noted it was anticipated the entire project 
would be completed sooner and all underground work has been done.  The remainder of the project, 
including paving the road , can’t happen until the weather improves.  Ms. Layman advised the 
project engineer assured her the hole would be back filled and graded prior to being paved, and 
she requested this be done.  Mayor Collins advised he would check with the company to see if this 
can be completed. 
  
  Jim Ridgeway provided photos of the 26th Street construction project area and voice d 
concerns with the project which included: open trenches, equipment and culverts piled up  and 
fence posts being utilized  incorrectly all of which are safety hazards .  Mr. Ridgeway noted 
additional citywide concerns involving construction signage which alludes to work being done in 
areas where no work is actually be done  and requested signs be removed. Mayor Collins advised 
he would look into Mr. Ridgeway’s concerns.   Upon inquiry, City Engineer Tom Cobb advised 
AVI is the construction manager for the 26th Street project.   
 
 Casey Quinn, BluePeak Fiberoptic Internet, provided information on the company noting 
they began fiberoptic internet construction locally in October.  He provided contact information 
and advised any constituent issues or concerns can be directed to him. 
 
 Dr. Aldrich advised the City Council is challenging the Laramie County Commission ers 
during the Boys and Girls Club Chili Challenge fundraiser which will be held on Friday, January 
28, 2022, from 5-8 p.m. at Little America. 
     
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:30 p.m.   
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kylie Soden,   
Deputy City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 30, 2022 
 