MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-02-14 | CLIP_ID: 836 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 836

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 14, 2022 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at Storey Gym, 2811 House Ave.,  and via electronic conference meeting.  Present 
were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Ken Esquibel 
(via Zoom) , Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal and Jeff White.   
Absent: Mr. Cook and Mr. Segrave.   Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of 
allegiance was recited. 
 
 PROCLAMATION – Designating February  12-19, 2022 as Entrepreneurship Week.   
Mayor Collins read the proclamation into the record and expressed appreciation to members of the 
Innovation and Entrepreneur Advisory Council who were in attendance. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. White, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Johnson and Dr. Aldrich, agenda item #25(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal, 
agenda item # 17 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Johnson moved to approve  
remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 24, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
         
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for 521 Southwest Drive (located east of 
Southwest Drive, south of I -80).  Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development Depar tment, provided 
information on the property and reviewed requirements of compliance with annexation conditions 
contained in state statutes.  Mr. Lloyd noted the affiliated annexation and zone change ordinances 
are also on the agenda.  Upon request, Mr. Llo yd provided examples of developments for the 
Mixed-Use Employment zone category.   There being no further comments or input  and purpose 
of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the Zoning Classification from CB Community Business to MUB Mixed-Use 
Business Emphasis for land located northwest of the intersection of Nationway and Logan Avenue.  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present.  (#4415) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 13.04 – Public Utilities Generally; 
Chapter 13.08 – Water Service System; Chapter 13.12 – Sewer System; Chapter 13.16 – Storm 
Sewers; and Chapter 13.20 – Wastewater Treatment & Disposal; of Title 13 – Public Services, of 
the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Johnson . Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) of the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to Table 5 -1: Zoning District Uses in UDC Section 5.1.4, Districts 
and Uses, amending the Permissibility of Various Uses – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
create a Common Landscaping Plan and definition of Development Footprint – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of Southwest Drive, south of I-80 – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor 
– Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MU Mixed Use to AG Agricultural for 
land located east of Southwest Drive, south of I -80 – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to HI Heavy 
Industrial for land located north of Campstool Road, west of Progress Circle – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating a new Section 9.08.120, Malicious Harassment 
Based on Race, Color, Religion, Ancestry, Sex, Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and 
Expression, National Origin, or Disability, of Chapter 9.08, Offenses Against Public Peace and 
Decency, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – 
referred to Committee of the Whole. (Sponsors – Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, 
Mr. Roybal and Mr. White) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 12.20, Cemeteries, 
of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne pertaining 
to Cemetery fees – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Segrave and Mr. White) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing up to a $14,890,000 interfund loan from the One Percent 
Sales Tax Capital Projects Fund to the Special Purpose Option Sales Tax Capital Projects Fund to 
facilitate the construction of three fire stations, purchase fire trucks and replace the cemetery 
irrigation system as approved by voters on the November 2, 2021 Sixth Penny Ballot.   Jim 
Ridgeway advised he is in support of the project and inquired as to when construction would take 
place.  John Kopper, Chief of the Fire Department, advised the city has a Professional Services 
Agreement with Plan One Architects and the projects are almost shovel ready, estimating the first 
fire station to be ready for construction by June .  Upon inquiry, Chief Kopper provided the 
following information: the public areas of the fire stations will meet ADA requirements, each staff 
member on duty will have their own bedroom in the new fire stations and there will be 3 separate 
bathrooms.  County Commissioner Gunner Malm expressed appreciation to Mayor Colli ns and 
the governing body for looking at this funding option, noting it is a great opportunity to save 
taxpayers money on the projects  and to everyone who provided information to the public on the 
6th Penny projects as they are instrumental in the community.  Mayor Collins advised that due to 
inflation, the cost will continue to rise for construction of the fire  stations and this approach 
provides for financial responsibility and accountability to the voters.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Concerns and comments  were made relating to the Consent Agenda 
process regarding public comment options.  City Treasurer Robin Lockman, upon inquiry, advised 
this type of funding option was utilized in the past for construction of the David R. Romero Park.  
Ms. Lockman further advised  the funds come  out of 5 th Penny fund, provided information on 
available funding in the 5 th Penny fund  and noted it will not affect reserves .  Mayor Collins 
explained utilizing this funding option includes repayment to the fund with interest.  Appreciation 
was expressed to Ms. Lockman and her team for their outstanding services and their assistance 
with the resolution.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
(#6207) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of a Federal Emergency Management Agency 
Preparedness Grant under the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) 
Program, on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne, for the purpose of adding nine 
new firefighter positions.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6208) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying Planning Commission Action amending the Future Land Use 
Maps of PlanCheyenne changing the land use category from Community Business to Mixed -Use 
Commercial for property generally located west of Campbell Avenue, north of Nationway, and 
south of and adjacent to E. Lincolnway.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6209) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the revised City of Cheyenne, Wyoming Investment Policy 
Statement – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor- Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to approve and file the Wyoming 
Division of Victim Services Funding Application State Fiscal Year 2023 and 2024, July 1, 2022 
to June 30, 2024 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Sweetgrass, 9th Filing, a Replat of all of Lot 1, Block 4, Sweetgrass, 1st Filing situated in the N1/2 
of Section 16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located south of East Murray Drive west and adjacent to Sweetgrass Drive) – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting a fee schedule for Planning and Development projects – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – For Governing Body approval of a one -year Bronze Boot Sponsor 
relationship between Cheyenne Frontier Days and Miller/Coors for 2022  – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)  
 
 Grant of Right-of-Way Easement on City Owned Property, per Exhibit A, between the City 
of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power Company for a 150’ wide right -of-way and 
easement for construction and maintenance of overhead power facilities.  Jim Wasson, Cheyenne 
Light Fuel and Power Company , advised he was available for any questions.   Charles Bloom, 
Director of Planning and Development, requested the item be postponed to allow for research on 
the $10 amount affiliated with the easement.   Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Mr. White moved to postpone to February 28, 2022 , seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Mr. 
Wasson explained the $10 fee is just a placeholder as  compensation must be put  towards the 
agreement. He further noted landowners in the vicinity pay $15/linear foot.   Motion to postpone 
carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between City of Cheyenne and Doran Lummis to 
authorize filing of platting applications(s) for City-owned lands for the purpose of access to future 
development.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7472) 
 
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Thomas Szott for City 
Prosecutor legal counsel services (General Fund).  Mr. White advised the item was reviewed under 
other items for the agenda at the February 7,  2022 Finance Committee meeting, therefore, 
provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met.  Mr. White moved to adopt in an amount not to 
exceed $86,400.00 annually, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Collins advised Mr. 
Szott will serve as the City Prosecutor and expressed the need to fill the position is immediate.   
City Attorney Stefanie Boster explained, upon inquiry, that the intent is for Mr. Szott to serve in a 
part time capacity to allow him time to work on his private practice, noting currently due to the 
demand of  city cases, he is currently working full  time.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#7473) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Kyle M. Brandon for 
City Public Defender legal counsel services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Veolia ES Technical 
Solutions, LLC, for the Hazardous Waste Disposal Services Project (Solid Waste Fund) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Jones Land 
Surveying, Inc., for professional Land Surveying Services (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Steil Surveying  
Services, LLC, for professional Land Surveying Services (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to 
Finance Committee.   
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #6957 between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming 
Cattle Co., LLC adding the Mariah Pasture and extendi ng the term of the Belvoir Ranch Grazing 
Lease Agreement through December 31, 2024  (Revenue to the City).  Mr. White  advised the 
recommendation of the Finance Committee was to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$187,477.50, however, it has been brought to his attention that due to the nature of the contract, 
the amount of revenue may fluctuate annually depending on the condition of the grass and the 
amount of grazing.  Mr. White moved to approve in the amount of $187,477.50, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Craig LaVoy, Deputy Director of Public Works, explained the Mariah 
Pasture is no longer considered over -grazed and the Conservation District supports continuation 
of grazing.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#6957) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #3 to Contract #6441 between the City of Cheyenne and Microsoft 
Corporation for the renewal to the City’s Enterprise Office 365 Online Enrollment .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6441) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7118 for the Memorandum of Understanding 
between the City of Cheyenne and Saddle Ridge, LLC, to outline the responsibilities for the 
donation of land and for the management of a multi-purpose non-motorized pedestrian and bicycle 
pathway, park  and landscape amenities in a portion of Saddle Ridge, 7 th and 9 th Filings 
(Community Facility Fees) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7119 for the Memorandum of Understanding 
between the City of Cheyenne and WJE,  LLC, to outline the responsibilities for the donation of 
land and for the management of a multi -purpose non-motorized pedestrian and bicycle pathway, 
park and landscape amenities in a portion of Saddle Ridge, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th and 13th Filings 
(Community Facility Fees) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-7-22 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and S&S 
Builders, LLC, for the Street and Alley Department Tent Building Repairs and Door Repairs 
Project (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an 
amount not to exceed $105,104.69). (#7474)  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-8-22 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Front 
Range Roofing Systems, LLC, for the Ice and Events Center Roof Replacement Project (General 
Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed 
$181,650.00). (#7475) 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and KONE, Inc., for the repair 
of the South East Hydraulic Elevator located at the Jack Spiker Parking Garage (General Fund 
Reserves).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $42,655.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-11-22 for furnishing eight (8) light poles (17 th Street Lighting), 
for the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
               
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Presidents Day holiday on Monday, February 21, 
2022, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held as follows: 
Finance Committee will meet at Noon on Tuesday, February 22, 2022  and Public Services 
Committee will meet at Noon on Wednesday, February 23, 2022 at the Kiwanis Community House 
at 4603 Lions Park Drive, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting. 
 
Announcement was made of a Committee of the Whole meeting to be held Wednesday, 
February 23, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. at Storey Gym (LCSD #1 Board Room), 2811 House Avenue, 
Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting. 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 28, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. at 
Storey Gym (LCSD #1 Board Room), 2811 House Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, for renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant , 
limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite distillery, special malt beverage 
and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.    
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 28, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. at 
Storey Gym (LCSD #1 Board Room), 2811 House Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the 
City Clerk’s Office for Dillon Companies, LLC, a Kansas limited liability company d/b/a King 
Soopers, 3702 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by Avanti, Inc., 
d/b/a Dell Range Liquor, 3806 Dell Range Blvd. #4, Cheyenne, Wyoming)  
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 28, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. at 
Storey Gym (LCSD #1 Board Room), 2811 House Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, to hear public comment regarding the City’s intent to enter into a  contract 
with Comea Shelter to grant a subaward from Coronavirus State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds 
to be used to increase available emergency housing and temporary shelter for Cheyenne’s 
homeless population. 
 
 Under other business:   
 
 Upon inquiry by Mayor Collins,  City Clerk Kris Jones advised the following item was 
being introduced for the purpose of being referred to Finance Committee to be held on February 
22, 2022 at the Kiwanis Community House:  Contract between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Comea Shelter granting a subaward to be used to increase available emergency housing and 
temporary shelter to support Cheyenne’s homeless population.   (Coronavirus State and Local 
Fiscal Recovery Funds) Mayor Collins referred the item to the Finance Committee.   
    
     
 Jim Ridgeway expressed concern relating to residential sewer fees being billed for 35 day 
periods and how the extra days affect the budgeted bill amount.  Mr. Ridgeway advised the Board 
of Public Utilities explain ed the late reading s were due to staffing issues within Zone 17 .  Mr. 
Ridgeway noted he does not believe the consumer should have to pay for the inefficiencies.  Mayor 
Collins advised water and sewer rates are established during the winter months.  Mr. Ridgeway 
provided photos and information regarding Lions Park walking paths and advised there are issues 
with standing water  and drainage problems which freezes and causes safety hazards.  Mr. 
Ridgeway inquired about the Bird  Scooters and requirements of the company relating to picking 
up abandon scooters.  Mayor Collins advised users can leave them in areas around town and the 
company is responsible  for retrieving and maintain ing them.  Mr. Johnson provided detailed 
information regarding reporting concerns involving the scooters and advised  residents can find 
additional information on the city’s and Bird Rides’ websites.  Mr. Johnson provided additional 
information relating to violations of city code involving the scooters.  Mr. R idgeway advised he 
believes it is a burden on citizens to contact the company.  Compliance Director Eric Fountain, 
upon inquiry, reported an an nual review will be held soon to address any issues involving the 
scooters.  Deputy Community Recreation and Events Director Jason Sanchez, upon inquiry , 
provided information relating to snow removal  in Lions Parks  and advised he would look into 
drainage concerns.  Mr. Ridgeway further referenced a memo provided by City Treasurer Robin 
Lockman on January 18 th related to  the resolution authorizing the interfund loan for various 
November 2, 2021 Sixth Penny Ballot projects and the funding of the 2019-2022 5th Penny ballot, 
noting overages collected that could be allotted for other needed improvements. 
 
 Dr. Aldrich advised there will be a City Council Ward III Council and Coffee event on 
Saturday, February 19th, from 9 am - 11 am at Dazbog Coffee (3911 E. Pershing Blvd.).  
 
 Mr. Johnson commended colleagues for their attendance and participation at the annual  
Boys & Girls Club Chili Cook and expressed appreciation to Triumph High Culinary Club for 
their 3rd Place win.  Mayor Collins advised the fundraising event included a friendly comp etition 
between members of the Governing Body and the County Commissioners.  Dr.   Aldrich reported 
the event raised almost $20k between the fundraising efforts of the Governing Body and the 
County Commissioners. 
 
Mr. Roybal moved to meet in executive session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16 -4-
405(a)(x), seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present.  Mayor Collins advised the executive session will be held to discuss the upcoming 
annual Fire Union contract and announced members would meet in executive session, not open to 
the public; requested the City Attorney, City Clerk, City Treasurer, Chief of Staff and Fire Chief 
be in attendance and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the 
executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close 
of the executive session. (Clerk’s Note: executive session convened at 7:02 p.m.).     
 
 Following closure of the executive session, Mayor Collins reconvened the regular meeting 
at 7:58 p.m. 
 
 
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:58 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  February 25, 2022 
 