MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-02-28 | CLIP_ID: 838 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 838

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 28, 2022 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at Storey Gym, 2811 House Ave.,  and via electronic conference meeting.  Present 
were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, 
Ken Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and 
Jeff White.  Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. White, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Johnson and Dr. Aldrich, agenda item #21 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon 
request by Mr. White, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook and Dr. Aldrich, agenda item 
#26(b) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve remaining items, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 14, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
         
 Mayor Collins opened a public  hearing for renewal applications for existing City liquor 
licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite 
distillery, special malt beverage and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  There 
being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met , Mayor Collins closed 
the public hearing and referred the applications to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a transfer of ownership and location of retail 
liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Dillon Companies, LLC, a Kansas 
limited liability company d/b/a King Soopers, 3702 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming 
(license currently held by Avanti, Inc., d/b/a Dell Range Liquor, 3806 Dell Range Blvd. #4, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Kevin Georges expressed concern regarding the proposed transfer of the 
license to a major corporation and recent prior retail liquor license transfers that have went to large 
corporations.  Mr. Georges expressed the need of smaller local businesses having the opportunity 
to obtain retail liquor licenses. Matt Kim-Miller, attorney with Holland & Hart, LLP (applicant’s 
representative), provided information on the request noting the transfer involves a long-standing 
package liquor store location which will be expanded, noting he believes the location is appropriate 
for continued package liquor s ervices for the community.   Upon inquiry, City Clerk Kris Jones 
explained the license was originally issued several years ago and th e request is for a transfer of 
location and ownership and that the additional retail liquor license awarded to the City based on 
the 2020 census  has not been awarded yet .  Comment was made regarding the lack of liquor 
licensing options in the state.   Upon further inquiry, Ms. Jones advised it was her understanding 
that King Soopers will expand the existing package liquor location and open the access from the 
King Soopers store into the current liquor store location.  Mr. Kim-Miller confirmed the plan is to 
expand the existing liquor store space into the prior Hallmark location and there will be a doorway 
into King Soopers where point of sale will occur. Upon inquiry, Mr. Kim -Miller advised the 
proposal is to have doors between the grocery and liquor spaces.  There being no further comments 
or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and 
referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to hear public comment regarding the City’s intent 
to enter into a contract with Comea Shelter to grant a subaward from Coronavirus State and Local 
Fiscal Recovery Funds to be used to increase available emergency housing and temporary shelter 
for Cheyenne’s homeless population .  There being no  comments or input and purpose of the 
hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapter 13.04 – Public Utilities Generally; 
Chapter 13.08 – Water Service System; Chapter 13.12 – Sewer System; Chapter 13.16 – Storm 
Sewers; and Chapter 13.20 – Wastewater Treatment & Disposal; of Title 13 – Public Services, of 
the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. White moved to amend by 
substitute dated February 17, 2022, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Brad Brooks, 
Director of Board of Public Utilities , provided information on the proposed substitute noting the 
language changes in sections 13.04.050 and 13.04.120.   Motion to amend by substitute carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   Main motion as amended carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4416) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) of the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to Table 5 -1: Zoning District Uses in UDC Section 5.1.4, Dis tricts 
and Uses, amending the Permissibility of Various Uses .  Brenda B irkle and Dan Dorsch , 
Affordable Housing Task Force , spoke in support of the ordinance noting it will contribute to 
affordable housing in the community .  Charles Bloom, Director of Plan ning and Development,  
provided information on  a request to include a change for “Entertainment, Amusement, 
Recreation-Other” from a Conditional Use to a Permitted use in the CBD zoning district noting 
the change would remove the requirement for these types  of businesses in the downtown area to 
go before the Board of Adjustment for approval resulting in being able to go into business sooner.  
Mr. Bloom advised  staff has reviewed  the change request  and believes it is appropriate for  the 
downtown CBD zone.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend Attachment “A” to change 
“Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation-Other” from a Conditional Use to a Permitted Use in the 
CBD zoning district, seconded by Mr . Segrave .  Upon inquiry related to a scenario where an 
outdoor shooting range business could potentially open a business in the downtown area without 
notification, Mr. Bloom and Mr. Johnson provided information on existing ordinances that would 
prevent that type of business in the downtown area.   Motion to amend by Attachment A carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended car ried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
create a Common Landscaping Plan and definition of Development Footprint .  Mr. Cook moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute 
dated February 24, 2022, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Charles Bloom , Director of Planning and 
Development, provided information on the substitute noting the acreage was changed from 100 to 
80 for when developments can submit a common landscape plan.  Motion to amend by substitute 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of Southwest Drive, south of I -80.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MU Mixed Use to AG Agricultural for 
land located east of Southwest Drive, south of I -80.  Mr.  Cook moved to approv e on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Busine ss to HI Heavy 
Industrial for land located north of Campstool Road, west of Progress Circl e.  Upon inquiry, Mr. 
Cook confirmed the zone change request is to allow for outdoor storage.  Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating a new Section 9.08.120, Malicious Harassment 
Based on Race, Color, Religion, Ancestry, Sex, Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and 
Expression, National Origin, or Disability, of Chapter 9.08, Offenses Against Public Peace and 
Decency, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  
Mayor Collins announced there would be a 3 -minute time limit for speakers and that comments 
and discussion should remain cordial. Speaking in opposition of the ordinance were: Robin 
Goodspeed, Eric Crosby, Jay Meyer, Andrew Dimit, Steven Edgar Olson, Nick Dawson, Alicia 
Green, Bob Wilson, Steve Milliad, Matt Freeman, Angelina Freeman, Sandra Cane and Mark   
Moss.  Topics discussed included: existing statutes, ordinances and policies that address bullying, 
harassment and violence; potential of ordinance being harmful towards individuals with opposing 
beliefs; affect the ordinance may have on re ligious groups; national events relating to similar 
ordinances in other states; confusion and challenges relating to the ordinance; biblical beliefs; how 
reporting offences to the Police Department will be handled; concern that non -supporters of the 
ordinance don’t support the protected groups outlined in the ordinance; belief that Cheyenne is not 
in need of the ordinance; suggestion to approach harassment concerns in other ways and request 
to allow more community input related to the ordinance.  Speaking in support of the ordinance 
were: Amber L eyba and Dale Steenbergen,  Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce , Troy 
Rumpf, Stuart Campbell and Keil Bergeron.  Topics discussed included: ordinance importance 
relating to economic development; witnessed threats and slurs; importance of ordinance as a 
statement of support for the protected groups and the need for the ordinance.  Additional comments 
were made that some companies have concerns related to locating in Cheyenne and recruitment as 
there are perceptions that issues and biased attitudes exist locally, and their desire is for every staff 
member to be treated with respect.  It was also note d that some military members stationed here 
have experienced harassment by local  businesses.  It was a cknowledged that laws exist on the 
federal level and opposing views were voiced on enforcement of those laws.  Reporting for 
Committee of the Whole, Mr. R oybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . 
Johnson.  Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by adding “political affiliation” to the appropriate sections 
throughout the ordinance that reference the protected classes, s econded by Mr. Johnson.  Dr. 
Aldrich advised the purpose of th e amendment is due to past physical attacks and vandalism at 
local political party’s headquarters.  It was noted other states have included political affiliation in 
similar ordinances.  Upon inquiry, Kris Jones, City Clerk , advised it would be appropriate to 
include “political affiliation” to other sections in the ordinance for clarification of referenced 
protected groups and noted that was the intention of the amendment.  Motion to amend carried .  
Voting “yes” all members of the governing body.  Dr. Aldrich moved to amend Section 9.08.120 
by removing Section A -3.  Motion died due to lack of a second.   Dr. Aldrich moved to amend 
Section 9.08.120 by adding a new Section E  – “This Ordinance will be considered null and void 
when applied to citizens in legitimate exercise of rights enumerated under Article 1, Sections 2, 3, 
20, and 36 of the Wyoming Constitution and the First Amendment of the United State s 
Constitution.  Motion died due to lack of a second.   References were made to previous Supreme 
Court cases involving const itutional protected class cases, some of which involved religious 
affiliations and beliefs .  Appreciation was expressed to everyone who has put effort into the 
ordinance, and it was further noted that everyone in the community should be protected.  Main 
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”.  
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 12.20, 
Cemeteries, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne 
pertaining to Cemetery fees .  Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . 
Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) 
repealing UDC 5.4.7, UU – Urban Use Overlay District, and creating UDC 5.6.9, UU – Urban Use 
Overlay District – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from P Public District to CB Community Business 
for land located southwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Cleveland Avenue and U.S. 30 – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the revised City of Cheyenne, Wyoming Investment Policy 
Statement.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6210) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to approve and file the Wyoming 
Division of Victim Services Funding Application State Fiscal Year 2023 and 2024, July 1, 2022 
to June 30, 2024.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6211)  
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Sweetgrass, 9th Filing, a Replat of all of Lot 1, Block 4, Sweetgrass, 1st Filing situated in the N1/2 
of Section 16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located south of East Murray Drive west and adjacent to Sweetgrass Drive) .  
Casey Palma, Palma Land Planning, agent for the owner, advised a replat was previously planned 
for a multi-family parcel in  the S weetgrass PUD.  He provided details of the Sweetgrass 
development history noting the family who owned the property supported multi -family 
development and explained that in general the Sweetgrass development has been decades in the 
planning.  Mr. Palma advised the master plan included a 7.68 acre plat for 168 units which is now 
for 116 units which is within the provisions of PlanCheyenne for urban residential stipulations and 
noted the exception is the PUD is unique.  He provided additional information on proposed open 
space, land reserved for public schools and public parks.  Comments and concerns were raised 
regarding proposed density of the project and related anticipated reduction of street infrastructure.  
Upon inquiry, Mr. Palma reported it is anticipated there will be many additional filings relating to 
the continued development of Sweetgrass which will take years to complete.  Following concerns 
and comments regarding setting a precedence on high density and size requirements with the plat, 
Charles Bloom, Director of Planning and Development,  advised that every plat filed will be 
considered on its own.  Comment was made that the proposed plat is fully compliant with the PUD 
as it is written today.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Concern was expressed 
relating to 400 people residing in the vicinity if the final plat is  approved, possible issues with 
homeowner’s associations relating to maintenance and the challenge to provide adequate parking.  
Motion failed due to a tie vote.  Voting “yes” - Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne 
and Mr. Roybal . Voting “no” - Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn , Mr. Segrave and Mr. 
White.  
 
 RESOLUTION – Adopting a fee schedule for Planning and Development projects . Brad 
Emmons, AVI, expressed appreciation to Planning & Development Director  Charles Bloom for 
his efforts on  the resolution.  Mr. Emmons voiced concern regarding the proposed revised fee 
schedule and the proposed requirement to obtain a property appraisal for right -of-way vacations, 
as currently appraisals are taking approximately 8 weeks to complete.  Mr. White moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr . Esquibel .  Mr. White moved to amend Attachment “A” by substitute dated 
February 22, 2022, seconded by Mr.  Esquibel.  Charles Bloom, Director of Planning and 
Development, provided details for the proposed substitut e which includes a change to the street 
vacation fee and noted it is up to the governing body if they choose to require the proposed 
appraisal requirement and fee.   Motion to amend Attachment “A” carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body.   Upon inquiry, Mr. Bloom provided information on the $50.00 
permit fee explaining it is due to the amount of Planning and Development staff time required to 
perform reviews of numerous permits.  He noted the proposed fee would generate approximately 
$23,000.00 annua lly.  John Edwards , Saddle Ridge Sub division, expressed concern on fee 
increases that will have an effect on affordable housing.  Mr. Bloom provided information on staff 
review time on the different types of plats submitted and requested consideration to r equire a 
higher fee for expedited plats as opposed to preliminary and final plats.  Discussion topics included 
an option of capping the price per lot to $2,500.00, desire to avoid deterring development and 
option to postpone for additional discussion and review.  Mr. Roybal moved to postpone to March 
14, 2022, seconded by  Mr. Segrave.  Dr. Rinne raise d a point of order regarding the motion to 
postpone as it was made on top of the motion to amend.  Upon inquiry, City Attorney S tefanie 
Boster advised the motion to amend could either be approved or denied prior to postponement and 
City Clerk Kris Jones advised the motion to postpone was out of order.  Mayor Collins ruled the 
motion to postpone out of order and called for a vote on the motion to amend.  Motion to amend 
failed.  Voting “no”– all members of the governing body.  Mr. Roybal moved to postpone to March 
14, 2022, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. 
 
 RESOLUTION – For Gov erning Body approval of a one -year Bronze Boot Sponsor 
relationship between Cheyenne Frontier Days and Miller/Coors for 202 2.  Mr. White moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr . Esquibel.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated February 23, 
2022, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  City Clerk Kris Jones explained the amendment is to correct the 
sponsorship type due to incorrect information originally submitted to the Clerk’s office.  Motion 
to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion 
as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6212) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – To authorize the application for the continuation grant in the amount of 
$318,375.00 from the Corporation for National and Community Service for the City of Cheyenne 
Office of Youth Alternatives Foster Grandparent Program – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
District Boundaries for the ‘Tales and Ales’ Pub Crawl to be held on April 2, 2022 – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. 
White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Renaming Ernste Drive to Richard Martin Drive  – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying Planning Commission action amending the Cheyenne Area 
Future Land Use Plan & Transportation Ma p of PlanCheyenne Plan to change the land use 
category from open space and parks to Community Business for an area of land located southwest 
of the intersection of Cleveland Ave and U.S. 30, correct land use categories of lands throughout 
the City inadvert ently applied with previous map adoption, modify roadway designations of 
specific roads that inadvertently applied with previous map adoption, and modify roadway 
designations in accordance with previously approved plans – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
 Grant of Right-of-Way Easement on City Owned Property, per Exhibit A, between the City 
of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power Company for a 150’ wide right -of-way and 
easement for construction and maintenance of overhead power facilities .  Mr. White moved to  
approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated February 18, 
2022, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mayor Collins noted the substitute adds a cost to the right-of-way 
and a reversion clause so that if the right-of-way is not used, it will revert back to the city.  Motion 
to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion 
as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7477) 
 
 Contract between the City of Cheyenne and the Comea Shelter granting a subaward to be 
used to increase available emergency housing and temporary shelter to support Cheyenne’s 
homeless population (Coronavirus State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds).  Mr. White moved to 
approve in an amount not to exceed $650,000.00, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Comment in support 
of the contract was made and it was noted the Governing Body acknowledges the concerns for the 
homeless population.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7478) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Kyle M. Brandon for 
City Public Defender legal counsel services (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(in an amount not to exceed $86,400.00 annually). (#7479) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Veolia ES Technical 
Solutions, LLC, for the Hazardous Waste Disposal Services Project (Solid Waste Fund) .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $200,000.00). (#7480) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Jones Land 
Surveying, Inc., for professional Land Surveying Services (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $25,000.00). (#7481) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Steil Surveying 
Services, LLC, for professional Land Surveying Services (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $25,000.00). (#7482) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team 
(CRAFT) for Minimum Revenue Guarantee Payment (General Fund)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue 
Department, and UC Health c/o Cheyenne Medical Specialist to provide occupational medical 
exams (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Carbon Asset 
Network (CAN) establishing terms and conditions for land manager partnerships – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the Board of Public Utilities and Polo Ranch Company regarding 
Quarter Circle Five subdivision well development and associated water entitlement – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7118 for the Memorandum of Understanding 
between the City of Cheyenne and Saddle Ridge, LLC, to outline t he responsibilities for the 
donation of land and for the management of a multi-purpose non-motorized pedestrian and bicycle 
pathway, park and landscape amenities in a portion of Saddle Ridge, 7 th and 9 th Filings 
(Community Facility Fees).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7118) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7119 for the Memorandum of Understanding 
between the City of Cheyenne and WJE, LLC, to outline the responsibilities for the donati on of 
land and for the management of a multi -purpose non-motorized pedestrian and bicycle pathway, 
park and landscape amenities in a portion of Saddle Ridge, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th and 13th Filings 
(Community Facility Fees).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7119) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7405 for the Contingency and Development 
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Project Bison to perform duties as outlined in the 
Wyoming Business Council Business Ready Community Grant Program for a Managed Data 
Center Cost Reduction Grant to recoup accrued utility expenses to replace “Project Bison” with 
“Microsoft” throughout (WBC Managed Data Center Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-11-22 for furnishing eight (8) light poles  (17th Street Lighting), 
for the City of Cheyenne, Engineering Department (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (acted bid from Cheyenne Winlectric Company, Cheyenne, in an amount 
not to exceed $140,576.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-11-22 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Z & Z 
Asphalt, for the 2022 Crack Seal #1 Project (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance 
Committee.    
               
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Under other business:   
 
 Mr. Laybourn acknowledged the recent passing of prior City Council member Bob Storey 
noting he was a Council member from 1981 -1988 and was involved with issues relating to the 
1985 flood. 
 
 Dr. Aldrich provided info rmation on the upcoming Delta Kappa Gamma used book sa le 
that will be held March 5-6, 2022 in the former Big Lots building at 3741 E. Lincolnway, noting 
proceeds support many local causes. 
 
 Mr. White expressed appreciation to Mr. Johnson and Board of Public Utilities staff for 
their assistance with the ordin ance amending Chapter 13.04 , noting it took considerable time to 
draft. 
 
 Mr. White provided information on a benefit to be held on March 2, 2022 from 5-7 p.m. at 
The Metropolitan for the South High “We The People” student civic program.   He noted students 
in the program study the Constitution and travel to participate in competitions.  
 
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:23 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 9, 2022 
 