MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-03-14 | CLIP_ID: 840 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 840

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 14, 2022 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at Storey Gym, 2811 House Ave.,  and via electronic conference meeting.  Present 
were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, 
Ken Esquibel (arriving at 7:35 via Zoom), Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott 
Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White.  Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of 
allegiance was recited. 
 
 Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda . Upon request by  Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Johnson and Dr. Aldrich, agenda item #20 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Roybal and Mr. Johnson, 
agenda item #28(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by  Mr. Segrave, and 
pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Johnson, agenda item #28(d) was removed 
from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Cook.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 28, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on March 3, 2 022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
         
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) of the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to Table 5 -1: Zoning District Uses in UDC Section 5.1.4, Districts 
and Uses, amending the Permissibility of Various Uses.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, 
Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#4417) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
create a Common Landscaping Plan and definition of Development Footprint .  Mr. Cook moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to postpone to 
March 28, 2022, seconded by Mr.  Segrave. Charles Bloom, Director of Planning and 
Development, advised discussions had occurred with individuals that had concerns and they would 
like to prepare amendments  to address those concerns.  Mr. Bloom noted there w ill likely be an 
additional postponement requested.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of Southwest Drive, south of I -80.  Mr . Cook moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. (#4418) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County MU Mixed Use to AG Agricultural for 
land located east of Southwest Drive, south of I-80.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. (#4419) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to HI Heavy 
Industrial for land located north of Campstool Road, west of Progress Circle.  Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#4420) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating a new Section 9.08.120, Malicious Harassment 
Based on Race, Color, Religion, Ancestry, Sex, S exual Orientation, Gender Identity and 
Expression, National Origin, or Disability, or Political Affiliation of Chapter 9.08, Offenses 
Against Public Peace and Decency, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mayor Collins  announced there would be a 3 -minute time limit for 
speakers.  Speaking in opposition of the ordinance were: Bob Wilson, Tom Perea, Steve Milliad, 
John Romero Martinez and Lynn Hutchings.  Topics discussed included: existing statutes , 
ordinances and policies that address bullying, harassment and violence; potential of ordinance 
being harmful towards individuals with opposing beliefs and being used as a wedge; confusion 
and challenges relating to the ordinance; biblical beliefs; how re porting offences to the Police 
Department will be handled; belief that Cheyenne is not in need of the ordinance; the need for the 
community to come together to address malicious harassment issues without an ordinance  and 
civil rights.  Speaking in support of the ordinance were: Amber Leyba and Dale Steenbergen, 
Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, James Peebles, Dr. Larry Meuli, and Sarah Burlingame, 
Director of Wyoming Equality .  Topics discussed included: Governing Body support for the 
ordinance; ordinance importance relating to economic development;  anti-lynching senate bill; 
issues in Ukraine; importance of ordinance to protect children and military lives; existing 
harassment and discrimination in the community; city’s poor economic development ranking, and 
the ordinance contributing to everyone feeling safe and supported .  Additional comments were 
made related to supporting the spirit of the ordinance but opposition to the way the ordinance is 
written.  Dr. Aldrich read a statement related to a newspape r editorial and apologized for 
misspeaking.  Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”. (#4421) 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 12.20, Cemeteries, 
of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne pertaining 
to Cemetery fees.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr . Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#4422) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) 
repealing UDC 5.4.7, UU – Urban Use Overlay District, and creating UDC 5.6.9, UU – Urban Use 
Overlay District .  Mr. Cook  moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from P Public District to CB Community Business 
for land located southwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Cleveland Avenue and U.S. 30 .  
Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis to CB 
Community Business for land located southeast of the intersection of College Drive and Charles 
Street – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating a new Section 9.01.010, Definitions of Title 9, 
Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Adopting a fee  schedule for Planning and Development projects . 
(Postponed from February 28, 2022).  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. 
White moved to amend  by substitute dated March 4, 2022, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Charles 
Bloom, Director of Planning and Development, provided information on the  proposed substitute 
which includes: removal of the appraisal cost fee from the street/alley vacation by ordinance 
application, $2,500 limit for preliminary and final plat applications, $5,200 limit for expedited plat 
applications which is the sum of the preliminary and final plat applications plus a $200 fee and 
requirement for staff review of the fee schedule every 5 years. Mr. Bloo m noted he has received 
supportive feedback related to the proposed amendment.   Upon inquiry, Mr. Bloom advised the 
last time the fee schedule was reviewed was October 25, 1993.  Appreciation was expressed to Mr. 
Bloom and his staff for review of the fee schedule.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting 
“yes”– all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#6213) 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – To authorize the application for the continuation grant in the amount of 
$318,375.00 from the Corporation for National and Community Service for the City of Cheyenne 
Office of Youth Alternatives Foster Grandparent Program.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6214) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
District Boundaries for the ‘Tales and Ales’ Pub Crawl to be held on April 2, 2022 .  Domenic 
Bravo, President and CEO of Visit Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority, provided information on the event which involves open containers from establishments 
to trolleys which requires  the resolution.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  
Concern was expressed related to the annual open container period including the DDA boundaries 
and how the ope n container period is managed.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Bravo advised all 4 trolleys 
will be utilized for the event, approximately 50 tickets have been sold to date and the event will be 
held from 3-6 p.m. on April 2, 2022.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing 
body present. (#6215) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Renaming Ernste Drive to Richard Martin Drive .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6216) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying Planning Commission action amending the Cheyenne Area 
Future Land Use Plan & Transportation Map of PlanCheyenne Plan to change the land use 
category from open space and parks to Community Business for an area of land located southwest 
of the intersection of Cleveland Ave and U.S. 30, correct land use categories of lands throughout 
the City inadvertently applied with previous map adoption, modify roadway designations of 
specific roads that inadvertently applied with previous map adoption, and modi fy roadway 
designations in accordance with previously approved plans.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6617) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Uncommitting $329,630.00 in General Fund Reserves approved to be 
used for the purchase of the former Hitching Post, Lot 1, Block 1, P.A.S. Subdivision by the City 
of Cheyenne Governing Body on July 22, 2019 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Olivet 
Cemetery, 4th Filing, a replat of a portion of Olivet Cemetery, 3 rd Filing and plat of a portion of 
the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 30, Township 14 North, Range 66 West, 
of the 6 th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the inters ection of 
Pershing Boulevard and Airport Parkway) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Rocking 
A at Sweetgrass, a subdivision of a replat of all of Lots 100 & 200, Block 15, Inclusive, Sweetgrass, 
6th Filing and all of Tract U Sweetgrass, 2 nd Filing along with a + 61,911 sqft portion of abutting 
unplatted lands situated in the N1/4 of Section 16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6 th 
P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located South of East Murray Road East and 
adjacent to Sweetgrass Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – To authorize the application for the Suicide Intervention  Grant in the 
amount of $73,582.00 from Cheyenne Regional Medical Center for the City of Cheyenne, Office 
of Youth Alternatives – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving water and sanitary sewer services, by outside user water and 
sanitary sewer services agreements, for Dean Byrne, for Lot 3, Energy Park One, Situated in the 
NE¼ of Section 33, Township 13 North, Range 67 West, of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, 
Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team 
(CRAFT) for Minimum Revenue Guarantee Payment (General Fund).  Wendy Volk, President of 
the Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team (CRAFT), provided information on the agreement 
noting the agreement should have been signed last summer , therefore, it  is retroactive.   She 
explained there was a delay with the runway project which ended up taking 4 months instead of 
11 weeks, and there was no air service during this period.  Ms. Volk a dvised 8,500 passengers 
have used air service since the runway project has been complete.  Ms. Volk provided further 
information on current scheduled flights and future proposed flights.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Volk 
explained the agreement will run through June  30, 2022  and 6 th Penny funds will start being 
collected June 1st.  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $240,000.00, seconded 
by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
(#7483) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Fire and Rescue 
Department, and UC Health c/o Cheyenne Medical Specialist to provide occupational medical 
exams (General Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$50,000.00). (#7484) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Carbon Asset 
Network (CAN) establishing terms and conditions for land manager partnerships .  Dale 
Steenbergen, President and CEO of the Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, expressed 
continued support for the MOU, noting it is a great opportunity for community.  Mr. White moved 
to approve, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute  dated March 9, 
2022, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Dr. Rinne explained the substitute removes  conflicting 
termination language, corrects typographical errors and adds greater liability to CAN specifically 
if the city is acting on information provided by CAN.  Upon inquiry, John Robitaille, CAN, advised 
at this time it is hard to predict income the city may receive as they are working on creating a new 
commodity and it depends on how much someone may be willing to pay for a ton of carbon stored 
in soil, but they are hoping to get $30/month per acre.  The city would then receive 2% of the fees 
collected. Mr. Robitaille noted currently there are 250,000 acres in network and they will continue 
marketing and increasing acreage over time. Upon inquiry, Mayor Collins advised it has not been 
determined which city department will administer the land manager partnerships. Comments were 
made in support of the concept and substitute and concern was expressed for how much 
involvement may be required by the city with only receiving 2% of collected fees.   Motion to 
amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Further 
comments were made in support of the MOU with hopes the process will continue to grow, the 
importance of the city’s participation and preference not to duplicate efforts that have already been 
done in areas such as the Belvoir Ranch with water and soil testing.  Main motion as amended by 
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception 
of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#7485) 
 
 Agreement between the Board of Public Utilities and Polo Ranch Company regarding 
Quarter Circle Five subdivision well development and associated water entitlement .  Mr. White 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Comment was made that the proposed agreement 
doesn’t contain any language that would prevent the developer from suing the city and there have 
been a number of lawsuits regarding the development and who is in control of the property.  Upon 
inquiry, Mayor Collins turned over duties of the Chair to City Council president Mr. Roybal and 
provided information on  the Polo Ranch.  Mayor Collins explained in 1955 the city bought the 
water rights and the ranch has been purchased by another Party and it has been attempted to rescind 
the ownership.  The p roperty was subdivided several years ago,  and several homes were given 
water illegally. Concern was expressed relating to the possibility of another lawsuit . Mr. Collins 
moved to postpone to March 28, 2022, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to postpone carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, the City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities, 
and McGee, Hearne & Paiz LLP for financial and compliance auditing services for fiscal the year 
ending June 30, 2022 (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Umpire’s Association to 
umpire and score the Recreation Division Adult Softball Leagues and Tournaments for 2022 
(Recreation Programs Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] 2022-2023 Collective Labor Agreement  between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne 
Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire & Rescue Department, and Stryker, 
Portage, MI, for equipment maintenance services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Development Agr eement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School 
District Number One to outline responsibilities for public infrastructure improvements relating to 
the Coyote Ridge Elementary School Project (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Sponsorship Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HollyFrontier Cheyenne 
Renewable Diesel Company, LLC, to designate HollyFrontier as the presenting sponsor of the 
2022 Superday, Superday Tour de Prairie and Superday 5K Walk/Run (Revenue t o the City) – 
referred to Finance Committee.      
     
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7405 for the Contingency and Development 
Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Project Bison to perform duties as outlined in the 
Wyoming Business Council Business Ready Community Grant Program for a Managed Data 
Center Cost Reduction Grant to recoup accrued utility expenses to replace “Project Bison” with 
“Microsoft” throughout (WBC Managed Data Center Grant ).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7405) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1  to Contract #7430 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp for the Carey Avenue Multi Use Path Project (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax, Specific Purpose 
Sales Tax and WYDOT TAP Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-11-22 for a  contract between the City of Cheyenne and Z & Z 
Asphalt, for the 2022 Crack Seal #1 Project (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $518,477.96). (#7486) 
 
CA] Consideration of Bid #E-14-22 for furnishing two (2) new 2022 4WD 72” front - mount 
mowers for the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation & Event Department -Parks Division 
(Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-16-22 for furnishing bitumi nous asphalt hot mix, tack oil, and 
cold mix on an annual basis for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019 -2022 1% 
Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-17-22 for furnishing aggregates on an annual basis for the City of 
Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and MED -ENG, LLC, for the 
purchase of two (2) bomb suits for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenn e Police Department (U.S. 
Department of Homeland Security Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, 
resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite distiller y, special malt beverage and winery 
permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  Piper Rauzi, Poor Richard’s, provided an update on 
their business plan and the building at 1808 O’Neil Ave. where their retail liquor license is parked. 
Ms. Rauzi explained e nvironmental testing and building cleanout has occurred at the historic 
property.  The buildout will begin later this month which will include Phase I which will be a bar. 
She provided further information on the building explaining new garage doors have been installed 
through a DDA grant and it took a long time to get the doors in .  As the first allowed year period 
for parking the license is coming to an end, they w ould like to  request to park the license for 
another year but  expect the business to open in the next 4 -5 months.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Rauzi 
explained the business remodel will involve 2 phases – Phase I will be opening the front of the 
building as a bar and Phase II will be involving the back part of the building to include a concert 
venue.  She no ted food will also be served in some capacity.  Comments were made related to 
concern of a retail liquor license being in a parked status for 2 years and not collecting any sales 
tax dollars when there are so many establishments seeking that type of license.  Mr. White moved 
to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Mr. White moved to divide the question to consider separate 
action on the application for renewal of the retail liquor license for Poor Richard’s, seconded by 
Dr. Aldrich.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White.  
Voting “no” - Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave.  Mr. White 
moved to divide the question to consider separate action on the establishments which have not 
provided TIPS lists during routine compliance checks.  These establishments include: Eagle’s 
Nest; Big D Oil #29; Vino’s Wine & Spirits; Accomplice Beer Co.; The Plains Hotel; Redwood 
Lounge and Package Liquors; China Buffet; Four Winds, Inc. and Peppermill Ba r & Liquor, 
seconded by Mr.  Cook.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” - Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn.  Voting 
“no” – Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr.  Segrave 
and Mr. White.  Comment was made relating to non -compliance of certain establishment 
concerning TIPS training all of which have become compliant since the Finance Committee 
meeting. The request was expressed that next year all establishments be able to provide TIPS 
training information when it is first requested  during Police Department compliance checks.   
Further comment was made relating to how liquor licenses have been issued over the years  and 
that some establishments initially issued retail licenses may be able to utilize bar and grill or 
restaurant liquor licenses and how it would be economically beneficial to be able to review these 
scenarios.  Main Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  [Clerk’s 
note: Mr. Esquibel joined the meeting via Zoom at 7:35 p.m. during discussion of this item] 
 
Transfer of ownership and location of retail liquor license application filed with the City 
Clerk’s Office for Dillon Companies, LLC, a Kansas limited liability company d/b/a King Soopers, 
3702 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by Avanti, Inc., d/b/a Dell 
Range Liquor, 3806 Dell Range Blvd. #4, Cheyenne, Wyoming).  Mr. White advised there was no 
recommendation on the item from Finance Committee.  Teresa Dietz, Adult Beverage Specialist, 
King Soopers, explained that along with extending their existing space for the package liquor store, 
they will be moving the grocery pick up location and will be able to increase pick up orders for 
the community.  She noted all liquor store sales will take place in the designated space which will 
also include some groceries.  Justin Flohr, Store Manager of Cheyenne King Soopers, expressed 
appreciation for consideration of the license transfer and noted the transfer will allow for the 
possibility of career advancements for store associates.   Mr. White moved to approve, seconded 
by Mr. Johnson.  Comments were made on the following topics: concern with alcohol sales in 
grocery stores; hi gh demand for retail liquor licenses; the perception that the King Soopers 
business isn’t in dire need of the license; other similar businesses that have received retail liquor 
licenses locally; lack of available liquor licenses at city and state levels; e conomic need for 
different business types such as a restaurant or unique bar to hold a retail liquor license; history of 
license as originally issued to Avanti’s for a small specialty wines package store and some citizen 
support for being able to purchase alcohol at a grocery store.  Upon inquiry, City Attorney Stefanie 
Boster upon inquiry  advised the governing body  isn’t bound by precedence in their decision  to 
approve or deny the  transfer.  Ms. Boster referred to case law and state statutes, noting certain 
guidelines must be followed and evidence should be considered when they are reviewing the 
transfer.  Further comments were made regarding liquor sales in grocery/convenience stores and 
economic needs and growth.  Upon inquiry, Ms. Boster explained that since the renewal was 
approved for Dell Range Liquor, if the transfer isn’t approved, the license will remain with Dell 
Range Liquor.  It was further noted that there likely won’t be many businesses that will be able to 
purchase a license at market rate.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
Laybourn and Mr. Segrave.  Voting “no” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and 
Mr. White.  City Clerk Kris Jones noted for the record  that she received a text at 7:35  p.m. that 
Mr. Esquibel had joined the meeting via Zoom during liquor license renewals discussion.   Upon 
inquiry, Ms. Boster explained pursuant to Roberts Rule of Order, a member can arrive late , and 
she believes Mr. Esquibel’s vote is appropriate. 
             
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 28, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. at 
Storey Gym (LCSD #1 Board Room), 2811 House Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the 
City Clerk’s Office for Prime Realty LLC d/b/a Prime Realty, 1601 Central Ave nue, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming (license currently held by Dillinger’s, LLC d/b/a Dillinger’s, 1601 Central Ave., 
Cheyenne, Wyoming). 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held March 28 , 2022 at 6:00 p.m. at 
Storey Gym (LCSD #1 Board Room), 2811 House Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the 
City Clerk’s Office for Wyoming Horse Racing LLC  d/b/a Horse Palace, 1601 Central Ave nue, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming (license held by Prime Realty LLC d/b/a Prime Realty, 1601 Central Avenue, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming). 
 
 Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held March 28, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. at Storey Gym 
(LCSD #1 Boar d Room), 2811 House Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Osterfoss 
Living Trust Dated May 20, 2020 d/b/a Nagel-Warren Mansion, LLC, 222 E. 17th St., Cheyenne, 
Wyoming. 
 
 Under other business:   
 
 Jim Ridgeway expressed concern relating  to the city’s surplus sale of Cheyenne Police 
Department evidence seized firearms requirements.  TJ Barttlebort, Purchasing Manager, 
explained he had spoken to Mr. Ridgeway and provided information on the surplus sale noting 2 
bids are currently being sol icited for evidence seized firearms .  He advised it is the Police 
Department’s request to award the bid to someone residing more than 100 miles away from 
Cheyenne and also to one person submitting the highest responsive bid for all firearms.   Mayor 
Collins noted the bid will come before the Governing Body for approval.  Mr. Barttlebort noted 
he will have further discussions with the Police Department and that there is time to amend process 
if needed.  
 
 Judi Just commented on the city’s consideration of goi ng to a self-insured insurance plan 
and explained a situation previously when the city was self -insured and suffered great financial 
loss due to the plan. She provided information on recent legislative bills that if passed, could have 
negatively affected self-insured plans.  
 
 Mr. White noted the motion to adopt the following Resolution - Authorizing the Mayor 
and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Sweetgrass, 9th Filing, a Replat of all of Lot 1, Block 4, 
Sweetgrass, 1st Filing situated in the N1/2 of Section 16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of 
the 6th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of East Murray Drive 
west and adjacent to Swee tgrass Drive), failed at the February 28, 2022 City Council meeting.  
Having voted on the prevailing side and pursuant to Chapter 2.04 of City Code, Mr. White moved 
to reconsider the vote taken on the resolution, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Casey Palma, Palma Land 
Planning, agent for the owner, advised information on the development was distributed to members 
of the governing body.  Mr. White explained that following subsequent meetings with the agent 
and developers of the project, his concerns regarding parking and density of the project have been 
alleviated and requested support for the motion to reconsider.  Mr. White further explained that he 
is no longer concerned about parking and believes it will be sufficient.   Comment was made that 
there has been no additional information since the final vote was taken, the area remains limited, 
the original plan had an acre of open space  and that this plan has very little open space.   Mr. 
Palma, upon inquiry, advised that code would require 174 parking spaces and 68 bi ke parking 
spaces and that the plan has been increased from what code would require.  He noted the units will 
be available at current market rate.  Comments were made that following a tour of the property, 
the project is something that can be compared to other developments of this nature in the city and 
to take into consideration the entire project, open space and park land involved and that 
development projects are essentially to make money for  the developer.  Motion to reconsider 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. Segrave 
voting “no”.  Dr.  Rinne moved to postpone for 2 weeks, seconded by Laybourn.  Dr. Rinne 
explained that historically when considering a reconsideration of an agenda item, it has been 
customary to postpone the item to allow for interested parties to become aware and have an 
opportunity to participate in the discussion.  It was noted that this item has had 5 public hearings 
and those who have want ed to comment have had the opportunity to do so.  Motion to postpone 
failed.  Voting “no” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  Voting 
“yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal.    Upon inquiry 
from Mayor Collins, City Clerk Kris Jones read the Resolution entitlement into the record.  Mr. 
Palma provided clarification from a previous discussion on open space and noted there is a private 
park with amenities.  Upon inquiry, James Powers, representative of the applicant and realtor with 
Caldwell Banker, advised the developer is local and expressed appreciation for reconsidering the 
item.  Mr. Powers further noted that Summit Management sets a precedent for developers, the city 
has put together an affordable task force for 3,000 housing units for short term rentals, rents are 
climbing and will continue to do so  and that this project will benefit the community.  He advised 
the proposal is a reduction of 30% in density and that he has worked with city staff to bring a 
project forward that meets approval.  It was noted the developer is not the original family, that the 
governing body is not opposed to growth, but they do want quality growth.  Concern was raised 
on adequate parking for the project.  Mr. Powers provided examples of previous developments 
such as Carter Cottages with a less acceptable parking ratio.  He advised that the property owner 
is participating in and supports the project.  Chris Lovas, Lovas Engineering, advised the applicant 
has invested in the engineering plans which allows them to work with BOPU and city engineering 
staff to ensure  the project’s success from an engineering standpoint.  Additional comment was 
made that market rate for the proposed development units may not be affordable and caution was 
raised regarding the housing shortage and affordable housing.  Mr. Palma, upon inquiry, confirmed 
that proposed parking and open space meets current UDC requirements.  It was noted that if the 
development wasn’t in a PUD , it would have been approved  administratively.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Segrave voting “no  
 
 Dr. Aldrich advised there will be a City Council Ward III Council and Coffee event on 
Saturday, March 19th, from 9-11 a.m. at Dazbog Coffee (3911 E. Pershing Blvd.) 
 
 Mr. Esquibel apologized for failing to notify  members of the governing body  of his late 
arrival.  
 
 Mayor Collins requested the Governing Body meet  in executive session to discuss 
litigation matters and a proposed facility purchase.  Mr. Roybal moved to meet in executive session 
pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16 -4-405(a)(iii)(vii)(x), seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present.  Mayor Collins announced members 
would meet in executive session, not open to the public; requested the City Attorney, City Clerk, 
City Treasurer and Chief of Staff be in attendance and stated there would be no action  taken by 
the governing body as a result of the executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting 
would officially conclude at the close of the executive session. Mayor Collins further advised that 
the following staff members would be present in executive session respective to topics relating to 
their departments/divisions:  Compliance Director, Public Works Director, Transit Director, Fire 
Chief and the Fire Marshal. (Clerk’s Note: executive session convened at 8:47 p.m.).  
  
 Following closure of the executive session, Mayor Collins reconvened the regular meeting 
at 9:48 p.m. 
 
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 9:48 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 23, 2022 
 