MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-03-28 | CLIP_ID: 843 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 843

      
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 28, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. at Storey Gym, 2811 House Ave.,  and via electronic conference meeting.  Present 
were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, 
Ken Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, and Tom Segrave.  Absent were: 
Pete Laybourn and Jeff White . Also present: Kristina F. Jones , City Clerk.  The pledge of 
allegiance was recited. 
  
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve , seconded by Mr. Cook.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 14, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
      Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Prime Realty LLC d/b/a Prime Realty, 1601 
Central Ave nue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license currently held by Dillinger’s, LLC d/b/a 
Dillinger’s, 1601 Central Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming).   There being no comments or input and 
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the 
application to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Wyoming Horse Racing LLC d/b/a Horse Palace, 
1601 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license held by Prime Realty LLC d/b/a Prime Realty, 
1601 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming). There being no comments or input and purpose of 
the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application 
to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a restaurant liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Osterfoss Living Trust Dated May 20, 2020 d/b/a Nagel -Warren 
Mansion, LLC, 222 E. 17 th St., Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Jas Barbe, Inn Keeper for Nagel -Warren 
Mansion, reported the mansion anticipates reopening in approximately 2 weeks.   Mr. Barbe 
requested consideration for approval and provided history of his Wyoming residency  and 
commented on the historic value of the mansion and his excitement in being a part of its continued 
service to the community.  Supportive comments were voiced regarding the reopening and general 
support for downtown businesses.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the 
hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application to 
Finance Committee. 
  
  ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
create a Common Landscaping Plan and definition of Development Footprint .  Reporting for 
Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to postpone to April 11, 2022, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  It was 
noted that staff is working on the amendment language which is anticipated to be complete in the 
next 2 weeks.  Motion to postpone carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the go verning body 
present.   
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) 
repealing UDC 5.4.7, UU – Urban Use Overlay District, and creating UDC 5.6.9, UU – Urban Use 
Overlay District.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal. 
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4423) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from P Public District to CB Community Business 
for land located southwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Cleveland Avenue and U.S. 30 .  
Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4424) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis to CB 
Community Business for land located southeast of the intersection of College Drive and Charles 
Street.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. 
Voting “yes”- all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating a new Section 9.01.010, Definitions of Title 9, 
Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. Johnson moved to postpone to April 
11, 2022, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Bob Wilson voiced support for the proposed postponement , 
and noted he is working with city staff on language amendments and expressed appreciation to 
Stefanie Boster, City Attorney, and council members Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Johnson for the attention 
to his concerns.  Annette Williams expressed concern regarding the lack of suppor t she feels she 
received at the March 22, 2022, Public Services Committee meeting.  Ms. Williams explained she 
had requested to speak following completion of action taken on the committee agenda and was 
told it was not customary for council committee meeti ngs to receive public comment except for 
comment relating to items on the agenda in proper order and she questioned this practice.  It was 
noted that Public Services Committee Chairman Bryan Cook did allow Ms. Williams to speak as 
a courtesy.  Mayor Collins explained that the governing body allows for public comment on 
general city business at the end of every City Council meeting and that they are not required to 
and have not allowed for public comment periods at standing committees for many years.  Georgia 
Broyles, Youth Alternatives, questioned if there would be a process for School Resource Officers 
to ticket student s violating the ordinance.  It was noted the request would be looked into. Sam 
Kayne and Pastor Tom Perea expressed support of t he proposed postponement.  Motion to 
postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Repealing Ordinance No. 3465, and reestablishing and 
redefining ward boundaries within the City of Cheyenne -- referred to Public Services Committee. 
(SPONSOR – MR. COOK)  
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fe e 
Schedule -- referred to Finance Committee.  (SPONSOR – MR. WHITE)   
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Increasing the compensation for the Mayor of the City 
of Cheyenne, commencing January 1, 2025 -- referred to Finance Committee.  (SPONSOR – MR. 
ROYBAL)    
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Increasing the compensation for members of the City 
Council of the City of Cheyenne and providing an effective date -- referred to Finance Committee. 
(SPONSOR – MR. ROYBAL)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Uncommitting $329,630.00 in General Fund Reserves approved to be 
used for the purchase of the former Hitching Post, Lot 1, Block 1, P.A.S. Subdivision by the City 
of Cheyenne Governing Body on July 22, 2019. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6219) 
 
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Olivet 
Cemetery, 4th Filing, a replat of a portion of Olivet Cemetery, 3 rd Filing and plat of a portion of 
the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 30, Township 14 North, Range 66 West, 
of the 6 th P.M., Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of 
Pershing Boulevard and Airport Parkway).  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave. 
Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute maps containing technical corrections, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute maps carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body p resent.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#6220) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Rocking 
A at Sweetgrass, a subdivision of a replat of all of Lots 100 & 200, Block 15, Inclusive, Sweetgrass, 
6th Filing and all of Tract U Sweetgrass, 2 nd Filing along with a + 61,911 sqft portion of abutting 
unplatted lands situated in the N1/4 of Section 16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6 th 
P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located South of East Murray Road East and 
adjacent to Sweetgrass Drive). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6221)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – To authorize the application for the Suicide Intervention Grant in the 
amount of $73,582.00 from Cheyenne Regional Medical Center for the City of Cheyenne, Office 
of Youth Alternatives.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6222)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving water and sanitary sewer services, by outside user water and 
sanitary sewer services agreements, for Dean Byrne, for Lot 3, Energy Park One, situated in the 
NE¼ of Section 33, Township 13 North, Range 67 West, of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, 
Wyoming. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6223)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Wyomi ng 
Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program, Grant Funding for the City’s mobile  
D.U.I. Command Vehicle (Highway Safety Behavioral Grant) – referred to Finance Committee.  
(SPONSOR – DR. ALDRICH) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – For Governing Body support of Community forum(s) and other 
appropriate initiatives to encourage more kindness, civility, cooperation, and respectful dialogue 
– referred to  Public Services Committee.  (SPONSORS – DR. ALDRICH AND MR. 
LAYBOURN) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing City staff to repair the tree lawn area on Vandehei Avenue 
between Yellowstone Road and Stockman Street. (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax fund and General 
Fund Reserves) – referred to Public Services Committee.  (SPONSOR – MR. SEGRAVE) 
 
 Agreement between the  Board of Public Utilities and Polo Ranch Company regarding 
Quarter Circle Five subdivision well development and associated water entitlement.  Hank Bailey 
advised he is on the Polo Ranch Company Board of Directors and has proposed language to satisfy 
legal terms of the agreement.  Mr. Bailey provided information relating to past and proposed water 
usage involving rural properties and future development of r esidential homes.  Levi Martin, area 
resident, voiced concerns involving the city relinquishing water rights, fairness and previously 
agreed upon policy terms.  Brad Brooks , BOPU Director, upon inquiry provided information 
involving a previous water usage study completed in Laramie County .  Mr. Brooks provided 
information relating to proposed water usage allowances and actual usage on the Polo Ranch and 
requirement of the ranch to pay for any overuse, noting the Polo Ranch water usage is monitored.  
Mr. Brooks reported a previous Supreme Court opinion that determined a use of .7 acre feet per 
minute for county residential properties and advised he feels that is a fair assessment.  It was noted 
that the water use of the proposed residential home development would not be metered.  Comment 
was made that the state allows for up to 25 acre feet per minute for rural wells.  Mr. Brooks further 
noted that the proposed assessment provides a savings to the aquafer over al l, noting support of 
the stipulations in this agreement. Information was provided regarding the 1955 agreemen t.  Mr. 
Johnson moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Johnson moved to amend  by adding 
#10 which states “the Polo Ranch Company hereby acknowledges the binding rulings of the 
Wyoming Supreme Court in their 1998 and 2003 opinions in litigation inv olving Polo Ranch 
Company and the  City of Cheyenne and hereby expressly agrees that the 1955 Drilling and Water 
Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and John and Marie Bell has been finally and fully 
adjudicated and that the Polo Ranch has no claims or causes of action against the City of Cheyenne 
based on that Agreement or it s implementation.”, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present .     Main motion as amended 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Cook 
and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  (#7487) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, the City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities, 
and McGee, Hearne & Paiz LLP for financial and compliance auditing services for fiscal the year 
ending June 30, 2022 (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7488) 
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Umpire’s Association to 
umpire and score the Recreat ion Division Adult Softball Leagues and Tournaments for 2022 
(Recreation Programs Fund) .   Mr. Johnson moved to approve, seconded by Mr . Segrave. Mr. 
Johnson voted no. (#7489) 
 
[CA] 2022-2023 Collective Labor Agreement  between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne 
Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7490) 
 
 Development Agreement between t he City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School 
District Number One to outline responsibilities for public infrastructure improvements relating to 
the Coyote Ridge Elementary School Project (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Mr.  Johnson moved to 
approve in an amount not to exceed $177,000, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Planning & Development 
Director Charles Bloom advised the agreement allows for the city to contribute to funding for 
improvements on Carlson Road , a land swap for land located near South High School and 
Harmony Valley.  Mr. Bloom reported the city can as k for improvement reimbursement when 
adjacent land is developed in the future  and that when the land is developed, the developers will 
be required to pay the city for the road.  It was noted the city will recoup approximately $76,000 
for the land swap.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present 
with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  (#7491)  
 
[CA] Sponsorship Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HollyFrontier Cheyenne 
Renewable Diesel Company, LLC, to designate HollyFrontier as the presenting sponsor of the 
2022 Superday, Superday Tour de Prairie and Superday 5K Walk/Run (Revenue to the City) . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7492) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Nova Health Care Center for occupational 
medicine services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Agreement with Arts Cheyenne for the installation of public art in the 
City Right of Way – referred to Public Services Committee.   
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc., for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping, and other activities 
during the 2022 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration – referred to Finance Committee.    
    
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Waste Management 
of Colorado, Inc. for the Recycling Services Project (Solid Waste Fund)  – referred to Finance 
Committee.  
 
[CA] Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and V & M Properties, LLC 
for property located at 1800 Westland Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the purpose of relocating 
the Cheyenne Transit System office and transfer station (Federal Grant WY -2021-005-00 and 
Transit Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Engineering & 
Consulting Alliance for the Landfill Tent Building deconstruction and replacement (Solid Waste 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
                        
[CA] Contract Modification #1  to Contract #7430 between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp for the Carey Avenue Multi Use Path Project (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax, Specific Purpose 
Sales Tax and WYDOT TAP Grant) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $29,484.00).  (#7430)  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-14-22 for furnishing two (2) new 2022 4WD 72” front - mount 
mowers for the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation & Event Department-Parks Division 
(Specific Purpose Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Heartland 
Kubota, Sheridan, WY, in an amount not to exceed $74,350.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-16-22 for furnishing bituminous asphalt hot mix, tack oil, and 
cold mix on an annual basis for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019 -2022 1% 
Sales Tax). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Knife River d/b/a JTL Group, 
Inc. Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $434,500.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-17-22 for furnishing aggregates on an annual basis for the City of 
Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accepted bid from Croell Inc., Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $37,500.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and MED -ENG, LLC, for the 
purchase of two (2) bomb suits for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department (U.S. 
Department of Homeland Security Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $71,318.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire & Rescue 
Department, and Stryker, Portage, MI, for equipment maintenance services.  (General Fund) 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $59,388.75).   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-8-22 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Pine Bluffs 
Gravel & Excavating for Yard Waste Material Hauling and Fill Dirt Hauling for the City of 
Cheyenne, Compost Facility (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-19-22 for furnishing 95 Gallon Automated Refuse Carts for the 
City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) - referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Request to approve an additional dispensing area for City of Cheyenne Limited Retail 
Liquor Licensee Cheyenne Country Club, located at 800 Stinner Rd., Cheyenne, Wyoming - 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Appointments for Erin LeBlanc to the Board of Adjustment and Elizabeth Bales to the 
Historic Preservation Board.   Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave.   Mayor 
Collins upon inquiry provided informat ion on the application and selection process for mayoral 
appointments to boards and commissions.  Mayor Collins noted that it is possible for individuals 
to serve on multiple community boards at the same time and that the application by Elizabeth Bales 
was not vetted by the Historic Preservation Board prior to his recommendation to appoint Ms. 
Bales to the board.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present 
with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (Mayoral appointment). 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to  be held April 11, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY,  and via electronic conference 
meeting, to hear public comment regarding the City’s intent to purcha se property located at 1800 
Westland Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming for the purpose of relocating the Cheyenne Transit System 
Office and Transfer Station. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 11, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers,  2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY , and via electronic conference 
meeting, for one available retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office by 
Ace’s Range LLC d/b/a Ace’s Range LLC, 1505 Pioneer Ave., Big D Oil Co. d/b/a Big D Oil #56, 
4100 Whitney Rd., Billy Jacks - Wyoming LLC d/b/a Billy Jack’s Pizza Pub, 4020 Airport 
Parkway West, Suite 1, Capitol Cuisine LLC d/b/a Ike’s Bar & Grill, 122 W. 6 th St., Ful-O-Pep 
d/b/a The Old Cheyenne Elevator, 800 W. 21 st St., Get Bent, LLC d/b/a Get Bent, LLC, 707 W. 
Lincolnway, Maurice W. Brown d/b/a Town & Country Supermarket Liquors-North, 2120 Carey 
Ave., Space 1, Peaches’ Package Liquor & Bar LLC d/b/a Peaches’ Package Liquor & Bar LLC, 
Anderson Corner, 3 rd Filing, Lot 2, Block 1, Vitamin College Natural Food Markets, I nc. d/b/a 
Natural Grocers, 1851 Dell Range Blvd., Westby Edge LLC d/b/a Westby Edge LLC, 714 W. 20th 
St. and Wyoming Downs OTB 14 LLC d/b/a Wyoming Downs OTB 14, 1345 Dell Range Blvd., 
Cheyenne. 
 
 Under other business:   
 
 Annette Williams advised that she felt that she did not get the same treatment at the March 
22, 2022 P ublic Services Committee as other members of the public and felt disrespected.  Ms. 
Williams requested approval to hang military memorial banners in downtown and other areas of 
town during the Veteran’s Day holiday.  She noted that family members of fallen military would 
be paying for the banners and the brackets will be used if approved by the Board of Public Utilities.  
Ms. Williams inquired about amending the current UDC and City Code sign regulations to allow 
for banners to be hung during certain time frames.  Mayor Collins advised that unfortunately by 
allowing one group to hang  banners it opens up the possibility that the city would be required to 
allow any group to hang banners.  Mayor Collins advised groups such as “hate groups” that may 
offend others would be allowed to hang their banners and reported that other Wyoming towns have 
been sued relating to this issue.  Mayor Collins reported that he is looking into options to allow 
groups such as the military to be able to be honored in ways suggested by Ms. Williams.  Ms. 
Williams inquired about scooters randomly placed around town and if that was a code violation.  
City Attorney Stefanie Boster advised they are not in violation of right of way ordinances.    
 
 Jim Ridgeway commented on revisions made to recent bid inquiries involving city surplus 
firearms.  He voiced concerns relating to the city’s ability to sell firearms without serial numbers, 
absence of visual inspection either in person or by photographs and method of current storage  by 
the city.    
 
 Mayor Collins upon inquiry advised the Municipal Building repai rs are near completion 
and that there does not appear there were financial savings during staff’s absence from the building 
during the past 6 months.     
 
  Bob Wilson voiced support for the postponement on the ordinance relating to creating a 
new Section 9.01.010-Definitions of Title 9  Public Peace and Welfare and looking into code 
changes relating to community signage.    
 
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:15 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 13, 2022 
 