MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-04-11 | CLIP_ID: 845 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 845

      
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 11, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich,  Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal , Tom Segrave and Jeff White .  
Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
  
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of  [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Johnson and Dr. Aldrich, agenda items #21(d) and #21(e) were removed from the 
Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Laybourn 
and Mr. Johnson, agenda item #18 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 28, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
      Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to hear public comment regarding the City’s intent 
to purchase property located at 1800 Westland Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming for the purpose of 
relocating the Cheyenne Transit System Office and Transfer Station.   There being no comments 
or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a  public hearing for one available retail liquor license application 
filed with the City Clerk’s Office by Ace’s Range LLC d/b/a Ace’s Range LLC, 1505 Pioneer 
Ave., Big D Oil Co. d/b/a Big D Oil #56, 4100 Whitney Rd., Billy Jacks - Wyoming LLC d/b/a 
Billy Jack’s Pizza Pub, 4020 Airport Parkway West, Suite 1, Capitol Cuisine LLC d/b/a Ike’s Bar 
& Grill, 122 W. 6 th St., Ful-O-Pep d/b/a The Old Cheyenne Elevator, 800 W. 21 st St., Get Bent, 
LLC d/b/a Get Bent, LLC, 707 W. Lincolnway,  Peaches’ Package Liquor & Bar LLC d/b/a 
Peaches’ Package Liquor & Bar LLC, Anders on Corner, 3 rd Filing, Lot 2, Block 1, Vitamin 
College Natural Food Markets, Inc. d/b/a Natural Grocers, 1851 Dell Range Blvd., Westby Edge 
LLC d/b/a Westby Edge LLC, 714 W. 20th St. and Wyoming Downs OTB 14 LLC d/b/a Wyoming 
Downs OTB 14, 1345 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne.   Mayor Collins advised there have been 2  
previous work sessions held on the applications  and noted there would be a 3 -minute limit for  
public comments.  The following individuals and downtown business owners spoke in support of 
The Old Cheyenne Elevator project:  Derek Baker, Bria Ham mock, Piper Rauzi, Dave Tuebner, 
Mirna Rummels and Jill Lovato. Comments included: business owners are good stewards of the 
community, rehabilitation of the iconic space, project involvement with the Reed Avenue corridor 
project, how the project will support economic development, how the business plan will support 
food truck s and other small community businesses, time invested in t he project and that the 
business is family oriented.  Andy Rose, The Old Cheyenne Elevator, read a letter into record in 
support of The Old Cheyenne Elevator.  Mariah Kilmer, spoke in favor of the rail spur concept 
and in support of the application for Get Bent, LLC, which she feels will add to continued growth 
of the area.  Amber Cromwell , The Design Studio, representing Ace ’s Range  LLC, provided 
information on the business and stated the retail liquor license is the only type of license that the 
business can utilize, noting the business will be open by the end of the year.  Dallas Tyrrell, 
Peaches’ Package Liquor  & Bar, identified a poss ible temporary location for compliance with 
operational status until construction is complete.  Juan Coronado, co-owner of Los Conejos  and 
Micro Popup Concepts , presented a letter of recommendation for Get Bent, LLC , from Troy 
Guard, Tag Restaurant Group, who he has worked with in the past.  JB Kunz, Aces Range LLC, 
provided a letter of support  from Mike Le pore and reported the project  will bring business to  
downtown year-round.  Jeremy Bay, spoke about alcohol and gambling and provided statistics 
involving suicide ideations related to substance abuse and gambling issues related to the Wyoming 
Downs application.  Diana McNamara spoke in support of Get Bent, LLC, noting the importance 
of the project location  relating to the west edge and t he long his tory with the railroad.  April 
Brimmer Kunz, Ace’s Range LLC and former legislator, commented that all of the applicants are 
worthy of a liquor license .  Ms. Brimmer Kunz asked that the governing body stand united in  
supporting possible legislative changes  relating to liquor licensing.   Seth Stefanik, co-owner of 
Los Conejos and Micro Popup Concepts, provided history of his culinary experience, voiced 
support for Get Bent, LLC and recommended approval of their application and explained they will 
be able to utilize the catering aspect and provide culinary education opportunities  to the 
community.  Members of the governing body expressed appreciation to all applicants and noted 
the difficulty that will be faced when awarding the license.  It was noted the legislature has agreed 
to hear discussion on the topic of liquor licenses and regulations.  Additionally, it was confirmed 
WAM notified members that Cheyenne has support from Burns, Lingle and Casper . Chugwater 
also has interest in the topic of liquor licenses  as the small communities are also being affected.   
There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor 
Collins closed the public hearing and referred the applications to Committee of the Whole. 
 
  ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) to 
create a Common Landscaping Plan and definition of Development Footprint  (Postponed from 
March 28, 2022).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated April 
1, 2022, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Sarah Bargst en, BOPU Water Conservation Specialist, 
explained how the change will contribute to the importance of water conservation.  Concerns were 
voiced involving abandonment of landscaping plans.  Inquiry was mad e relating to enforcement 
of abandoned landscaping plans and maintenance of newly planted trees.  Charles Bloom, Planning 
and Development Director, explained that the ordinance contains a provision for abandonment of 
a common landscaping plan and noted that with approval, each plan is recorded.  He advised that 
in the event that a common landscaping plan is abandoned, an application for a new site plan can 
be submitted that will work with the development.  Mr. Bloom noted that with c urrent site plans 
once a l andscape plan is approved , there are provisions that allow for compliance  and provided 
information on offenses.  He provided further information on 2 types of abandonments  in which 
compliance enforcement can intervene.  Mr. Bloom, upon further inquiry, reported he is not aware 
of specific examples where complaints have gone straight to enforcement for landscaping, instead 
it was enforced at time of s ite plan review.  It was noted that violations have been handled on a 
complaint basis and a summary of complaints could be provided.  Comments were voiced 
involving lack of maintenance for landscaping plans, replacement of dead trees and desire to 
enforce applicable city code.  Mr. Bloom  explained the ordinance amendment impacts 80-acre 
sites and larger which have been identified as areas on the edge of town and advised this is where 
they anticipate the common landscaping plans will be put into place. Motion to amend by substitute 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4425)  
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis to CB 
Community Business for land located southeast of the intersection of College Drive and Charles 
Street.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes”- all members of the governing body. (#4426) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating a new Section 9.01.010, Definitions of Title 9, 
Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming (Postponed from March 
28, 2022).  Bob Wilson noted he attended the recent  Public Services Committee meeting and  is 
supportive of amendments to the ordinance.  Mr. Cook advised the item failed at the Public 
Services Committee meeting.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Upon inquiry, Chief Mark Francisco, Cheyenne Police Department, explained definitions 
in the harassment section of city code present challenges relating to enforcement and advised the 
department would be satisfied with a clearer  definition of  assault and batter y.  City Attorney  
Stefanie Boster noted the issue was defining “harass” and proposed the following  amendments: 
under paragraph A, remove words “compliments and”, under paragraph B, subsection 2, correct 
state statute citation from subsection (d) to (b) and remove paragraph B, subsection 3 in its entirety.  
Ms. Boster further clarified upon inquiry that “harass” is being rem oved as it was invoking the 
stalking statute.  Appreciation was expressed to the Police Department for their assistance with the 
ordinance and to everyone involved in the discussions.  Upon further inquiry, Ms. Boster advised 
the ordinance isn’t solely for  the benefit of the recently approved anti -harassment ordinance, but 
the ordinance did highlight the need for definition clarification.  Ms. Boster noted the ordinance  
clarifies the definition of assault and battery by directing law enforcement to state statutes.  It was 
further noted the ordinance adopts statute which covers all sections in Title 9.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel 
and Mr. Segrave voting “no”. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Repealing Ordinance No. 3465, and reestablishing and 
redefining ward boundaries within the City of Cheyenne.   Jordan Evans, Laramie County GIS 
Cooperative Coordinator, explained the reestablishment and redefinition of ward boundaries is to 
align with recent legislative redistricting changes and noted proposed ward boundary alterations.  
Mr. Evans advised he is working closely with the Laramie County Clerk to update precincts which 
is based off of the proposed ward changes.   Boyd Wiggam referenced an email he sent to the 
governing body requesting the City to consider expanding to 4 – 5 wards which he believes would 
allow the local government to be closer to citizens.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Inquiry was made that if additional wards were approved and a council 
member was previously in Ward III and was then considered to be in a newly established ward in 
the middle of their term, would they be required to run again in the newly established ward.  City 
Attorney Stefanie Boster  explained information would be provided relating  to this scenario and 
advised the City and County Clerk s have been c areful to make sure council members are not 
displaced with respect to the ir current wards.  City Clerk Kris Jones advised she would research 
the issue of being moved to a different ward in the middle of a council member ’s term.  Inquiry 
was made relating t o altering ward boundaries outside of the established 10 -year timeframe.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee 
Schedule.  Jim Ridgeway questioned the need to increase fees to cover equipment and maintenance 
needs and asked if there are other funding options to cover the expenses.  Vicki Nemecek, Public 
Works Director, advised ARPA funds have been requested for some maintenance needs,  
specifically for the Transfer Station roof  replacement and advised the increase for residential 
customers is 1%.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  It was suggested that the City look for alternate funding sources 
for items such as roof replacements.  Comments were made relating to previous OSHA issues and 
financial studies relating to suggested rate increases involving sanitation services.  Ms. Nemecek 
advised the financial plan for the solid waste system includes everything that needs to be paid for 
long-term including daily operations and costs for the landfill expansion.  Ms. Nemecek explained 
at the landfill end of life, cells must be  closed or monitored for 30 years .  Upon inquiry, Ms. 
Nemecek provided information on the following: prior waste hauling to Ault, CO and funding and 
maintenance for roof replacements.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body.  
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Increasing the compensation for the Mayor of the City 
of Cheyenne, commencing January 1, 2025.  Jim Ridgeway inquired if the proposed wage increase 
could be done through a public e lection process, noting he doesn’t think the mayor and council 
members should vote on their own raises.  Mayor Collins advised that if the ordinance is approved, 
it won’t go into effect until the next Mayor takes office.  City Attorney Stefanie Boster explained 
that because of our form of government (Mayor/Council), state statute requires that the governing 
body determine the pay.  It was noted that the mayor receives other forms of compensation such 
as insurance benefits and use of a city vehicle.  Mr. Ridgeway spoke in opposition of the raise due 
to salary and benefits.  Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  
It was noted that the governing body received information from WAM containing compensation 
comparisons for several  Wyoming cities.  Cheyenne is one of  few cities in the state that ha s a 
Mayor/Council form of government and compensation for city managers in other communities is 
much higher t han the wage of Cheyenne’s mayor.  Clarification was made that non -binding 
referendums cannot be placed on an official ballot pursuant to state statute .  Support was voiced 
for city employees ’ wages be taken care of prior to raising compensation for members of the 
governing body.  Mayor Collins advised the last mayor al salary increase was approved in 2006 
and took place in 2009.  Members of the governing body commented on the previous increases for 
mayor and the demands required of the mayor.  Further comment was made that in comparison, 
mayors and city managers provide much of the same dedication and responsibility.  City Treasurer 
Robin Lockman confirmed there are 3 directors currently with higher salaries  than the mayor.   
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. 
Aldrich voting “no” and Mayor Collins abstaining.   
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Increasing the compensation for members of the City 
Council of the City of Cheyenne and providing an effective date.  Mr. White moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  It was noted that the  last city council increase  was in 
2000.  Additionally, the  Cheyenne Public Employees Association (CPEA)  completed a cost  of 
living wage analysis and the result for council members  suggested the increase should reflect a 
monthly wage of $1,867.00 which is comparable to the suggested $2,000.00.  Clarification was 
made that some members of council would not be eligible for the increase until 2024 and that the 
proposed increase equates to about half of what county commissioners make for a  comparable 
service.  Concern was raised that the increase could impact 3 of the 9 council members due to 
election terms should those individuals choose to run again.  Comments were made relating to the 
amount of time it takes to serve on the council.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Rinne and Mr. White voting “no”.    
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AR Agricultural Residential to Harmony Valley 
Planned Unit Development (Ordinance #4274) for land located north of West College Drive and 
east of York Avenue – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 10.52.030, Parking Not to Obstruct 
Traffic, of Chapter 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and 
Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 9.12.080, Electric Fences Prohibited, 
of Chapter 9.12, Offenses Against Property, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich 
and Mr. Johnson). 
 
 Following a brief recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 8:07 p.m.   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Cheyenne Police Department to apply for Wyomi ng 
Department of Transportation, Highway Safety Program, Grant Funding for the City’s mobile  
D.U.I. Command Vehicle (Highway Safety Behavi oral Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6224) 
 
 RESOLUTION – For Governing Body support of Community forum(s) and other 
appropriate initiatives to encourage more kindness, civility, cooperation, and respectful dialogue.  
Sandra Cane read a letter into the record and voiced support for the resolution.  Amy Spieker spoke 
in favor of the resolution and encouraged the governing body to consider the historical nature of 
the issues and problems.  Bob Wilson  spoke in support of the resolution noting it suggests the 
governing body is interested in citizens coming together in efforts that would reduce divisiveness 
and create a safer environment fo r everyone. Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  
Dr. Aldrich, sponsor of the resolution, expressed appreciation for the council’s consideration and 
advised there was previous discussion on if the resolution should have instead been a declaration. 
Members of the governing body provided comments supporting the effort, promotion of continued 
community conversations, past efforts in 2018 on a similar compassionate resolution and social 
justice issues. Appreciation was expressed to the public for remaining respectful and positive of 
each other’s  views during the series of meeting s on th e topic.  It was noted  the Chamber of 
Commerce will also be working on these types of forums and communications.  Further comment 
was made relating to the resolution format and that since no action is required, a proclamation may 
have been more appropriate.  Mayor Collins referenced a proclamation making April fair housing 
month.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6225) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing City staff to repair the tree lawn area on Vandehei Avenue 
between Yellowstone Road and Stockman Street (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax fund and General Fund 
Reserves).  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by 
substitute dated April 6, 2022 , seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  It was noted the substitute  replaces 
General Fund Reserves in the fifth  “Whereas” clause re placing it  with “approval from the 
governing body”.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Mr. Segrave provided members of the governing body pictures of the walkway 
from Yellowstone to Stockman , and clarified that the city is responsible for maintenance of this 
area as confirmed in details of an April 4, 1991 memo and provided information on the history of 
the project.  The importance of giving proper attention to details relating to agreements and other 
documents committing the city involving maintenance responsibilities was noted.  Comments and 
concerns were raised relating to tree removal and replacement, landscaping maintenance and  the 
importance of having a drought resistant plan.  Appreciation was expressed for the  City Forester 
and Rooted in Cheyenne  for implementing appropriate soil uses for planting of specific 
landscaping species for successful life spans and  for the importance of g oing to a drip watering 
system instead of an underground system.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#6226) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities 
Construction Specifications and Standard Drawings, 2014 Edition – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Nova Health Care Center for occupational 
medicine services (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent  Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $11,000.00).  (#7496)  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Agreement with Arts Cheyenne for the installation of public art in the 
City Right of Way.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7497)   
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understand ing between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc., for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping, and other activities 
during the 2022 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  
(#7498)    
    
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Waste Management 
of Colorado, Inc. for the Recycling Services Project (Solid Waste Fund) .  Mr. White moved to 
approve in an amount not to exceed $200,000.00, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Upon inquiry, Vicki 
Nemecek, Public Works Director , provided details on the city’s recycling program  including: 
hauling to Ft. Collins, p aying per ton based tonnage costs, and history and costs relating to 
contamination rates . Concerns were voiced involving the importance of a public outreach 
campaign to provide education  on what materials are recyclable  on an on -going basis.  Upon 
inquiry related to informational stickers on recycling bins, Ms. Nemecek noted replacement 
stickers would be included in rates and she doesn’t recommend replacing them.  Ms. Nemecek, 
upon inquiry, provided information on glass recycling and the recommendation not to place #4 
and #5 plastics in recycling bins.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. (#7499) 
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and V & M Properties, LLC 
for property located at 1800 Westland Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the purpose of relocating 
the Cheyenne Transit System office and transfer station (Federal Grant WY -2021-005-00 and 
Transit Fund).  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $1,180,000.00, seconded 
by Dr. Aldrich.  Vicki Nemecek, Public Works Director, provided project history which included 
searching for an alternative location, noting the Transit Program was approached 2 years ago about 
relocating out of the downtown area.  She advised the proposed location will adequately meet the 
program’s need and reported a federal grant for a portion of the purchase was previously approved.  
Ms. Nemecek provided information on the process of acquiring the building  and expressed 
appreciation to Renea Jording, Transit Director, and her staff for their efforts involving the project.  
The grant amount of $1.3 million and a $260,000.00 grant match requirement was confirmed.  City 
Treasurer Robin Lockman, upon inquiry, confirmed the required grant match funding is available 
for the project.     Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7500)  
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Engineeri ng & 
Consulting Alliance for the Landfill Tent Building deconstruction and replacement (Solid Waste 
Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $159,300.00).  (#7501) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Martin/ Martin 
Wyoming, Inc. for the Belvoir Ranch Pedestrian Bridge – Civil, Bridge Design, and 
Bidding/Construction Services (Belvoir Ranch Recreation Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.         
                        
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-8-22 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Pine Bluffs 
Gravel & Excavating for Yard Waste Material Hauling and Fill Dirt Hauling for the City of 
Cheyenne, Compost Facility (Solid Waste Fund).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $144,800.00). (#7502) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-19-22 for furnishing 95 Gallon Automated Refuse Carts for the 
City of Cheyenne, Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Otto Environmental Systems, Charlotte, NC, in an amount not to exceed 
$38,539.20). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-15-22 for furnishing two (2) new small articulated loaders and 
one (1) new heavy duty vehicle for the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation & Events 
Department (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax Funding) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-22-22 for furnishing three (3) new infield groomers for the 
Community Recreation - Events Department – Parks Division (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax Funding) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Request to approve an additional dispensing area for City of Ch eyenne Limited Retail 
Liquor Licensee Cheyenne Country Club, located at 800 Stinner Rd., Cheyenne, Wyomin g.  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for Prime Realty LLC d/b/a Prime Realty, 1601 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming (license 
currently held by Dillinger’s, LLC d/b/a Dillinger’s, 1601 Central Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for Wyoming Horse Racing LLC d/b/a Horse Palace, 1601 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming 
(license held by Prime Realty LLC d/b/a Prime Realty, 1601 Central Ave nue, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming).  Paul Ryder, Wyoming Horse Racing LLC, explained he was first attracted to  the 
former Grier Building due to the location and the possibility of utilizing the retail liquor license .  
Mr. Ryder provided further information on the following: other Horse Palace locations with bars 
rarely serve as drinking establishment destinations without participating in gaming, staff will be 
tips trained, tax revenues that the business will generate, jobs generated by the busin ess and 
parking concerns.  He reported they intend to be good partners to downtown and have joined the 
Chamber of Commerce and will be joining other organizations.  Upon inquiry, Mr. Ryder provided 
information on their business demographic and reported that he does reside in Laramie  county.  
The following individuals spoke in opposition  of the transfer of ownership application :  Susan 
Allen, Hawthorne Tree, Katy Brady, downtown business owner, Amy Sp ieker, Laramie County 
Community Partnership, Robin Roling, Chief Officer for CRMC, Chris Brady and Jim Ridgeway.  
The following topics were noted in relation to opposition:  public safety, city’s public safety budget 
expenses, gambling and alcohol concerns, downtown homeless population and previous denial of 
an off-track betting establishment zoning application.  Dan Surdam, co -owner of Prime Realty , 
reported he is  passionate about downtown and noted that w ithout viable tenants, historical 
buildings often fall into disrepair.  Mr. Surdam commented that off track betting isn’t uncommon 
and acknowledged that alcohol and gambling addictions are real concerns, but he feels that denying 
the transfer isn’t the answer  to solving the overall issues.   Mr. White reported there was no 
recommendation from the Finance Committee.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  
Johnson.  Clarification was provided that a previous off track betting establishment was denied 
approval at the old Jackson’s location due to a zoning issue rather than eligibility of business type.  
It was noted that the Horse Palace can still open for business at the proposed location without a 
liquor license.  Upon inquiry, Chief Mark Francisco, Police Department, provided a history of calls 
to the existing Wyoming Horse Palace noting there have been a few but the  business has worked 
with the Police Department to improve security.    Upon inquiry, Mr. Ryder advised they do not 
plan on catering, the annual projection of alcohol sales is $128,000.00, employees will have health 
insurance and a 401k, they intend to hire approximately 1 0 employees and he provided proposed 
hours of operation.  It was further advised that should issues with th e establishment arise during 
the year, the y can be addressed  anytime, not just during the liquor license renewal period.  City 
Clerk Kris Jones , upon inquiry , reported that although Dillinger’s at one time inquired about 
operating as a steakhouse and subsequently had inquired about other business plans, they remained 
eligible for a retail liquor license.  Upon further inquiry, Ms. Jones advised the transaction amount 
between license seller and buyer is a private matter.  Comments were made on the following: liquor 
license transfer s should be considered individually and specific to the business plan, gaming 
business locations in town, and concerns and history of failed businesses at the proposed location.  
Clarification was made that bars can  have games in their establishments and a few downtown 
locations were identified as having gaming machines.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Osterfoss Living 
Trust Dated May 20, 2020 d/b/a Nagle -Warren Mansion, LLC, 222 E. 17 th St., Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to  be held April 25, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY,  and via electronic conference 
meeting, to hear public comment for the City of Cheyenne’s Annual Action Plan Fiscal Year 2022 
prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office.      
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to  be held April 25, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY,  and via electronic conference 
meeting, to receive comments and input for an amendment to the Hitching Post Urban Renewal 
Plan and Project as required by Wyoming Statute Pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15-9-109. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to  be held April 25, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY,  and via electronic conference 
meeting for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s 
Office for 307 Horse Racing, Inc. d/b/a The Derby Club - Cheyenne, 1510 E. Pershing, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming (license currently held by Stults Management, LLC d/b/a The Office Bar & Grill, 1600 
E. Pershing Blvd.). 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held A pril 25, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting for a for a bar and grill license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Stults 
Management LLC d/b/a The Office Bar & Eatery, 1600 E. Pershing Blvd. #100, Cheyenne, WY. 
 Under other business:   
 
 Dr. Aldrich provided information on the next City Council and Coffee event to be held on 
Saturday, April 16th from 9-11 a.m. at Dazbog Coffee, 3911 E. Pershing Blvd., Suite A. 
 
 Mr. Johnson spoke in support of the recent Stagecoach Motel purchase by the Comea 
Shelter, noting they recently closed on the property.  Mr. Johnson provided information on how 
the property will be utilized explaining it will be a controlled, gated environment and that their 
priority is resident safety. 
 
 Mr. Segrave expressed appreciation for being back in City Council chambers. 
 
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 9:44 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 23, 2022 
 