MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-04-25 | CLIP_ID: 847 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 847

      
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 25, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich,  Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White. Absent: Dr. Mark 
Rinne.  Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
  
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the design ation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 11, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
      Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to hear public comment for the City of Cheyenne’s 
Annual Action Plan Fiscal Year 2022 prepared by the C heyenne Housing and Community 
Development Office.  Deanne Widauf, Housing and Community Development, provided a brief 
overview of the history and purpose of the Community Development Block Grant program, noting 
the proposed plan is consistent with the 5 -year Comprehensive Consolidated Plan  completed in 
2020, and stated the anticipated allocation funding amount is $485,401.00 and $123,504.00 in 
recaptured funding.  Ms. Widauf reviewed informa tion on the grant application process ; public 
notifications and opportunities for input ; role of the Advisory Council in reviewing and 
recommending projects to be funded and explained the projects that are recommended for funding.  
Dr. Aldrich recognized  the attendance of Housing and Community Development Advisory 
Council Chair Wendy Soto and expressed appreciation for those who work with  and are a part of 
the council.  There being no  further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been 
met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for an amendment 
to the Hitching Post Urban Renewal Plan and Project as required by Wyoming Statute Pursuant to 
Wyoming Statute §15 -9-109.  Mark Christ ensen, Planning and Development Department, 
provided information on the amendment which updates tax increment funding (TIF) and includes 
drainage and detention facilities.  He a dvised the original plan was approved in late 2021 and 
provided information on what is allowed under the plan.  He further noted the amendment is largely 
due to a proposed hotel in the area.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the 
hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a p ublic hearing to receive comments and input for a transfer of 
ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for 307 Horse 
Racing, In c. d/b/a The Derby Club - Cheyenne, 1510 E. Pershing, Cheyenne, W Y (license 
currently held by Stults Management, LLC d/b/a The Office Bar &  Eatery, 1600 E. Pershing 
Blvd.). Kyle Ridgeway, 307 First, explained his businesses is the parent company of 307 Horse 
Racing, Inc. and responsible for redevelopment of the Pershing Plaza and provided information on 
the background of the retail liquor license. Mr. Ridgway explained 307 Horse Racing, Inc. has met 
Planning and Development and zoning requirements for the proposed location.   He further 
provided information on the business which will include a bar and off track betting machines on 
the first floor and the next phase will include different types of businesses in the upper level of the 
building which may include an arcade , axe throwing, etc.  Mr. Ridgeway noted they h ave been 
involved in multiple communities in the state .  There being no further comments or input and 
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the 
application to the Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a p ublic hearing to receive comments and input for a bar and grill 
license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Stults Management LLC d/b/a The Office 
Bar & Eatery, 1600 E. Pershing Blvd. #100, Cheyenne, WY.  Kyle Ridgeway, speaking on behalf 
of The Office Bar & Eatery , advised the business is  transferring ownership of their  retail liquor 
license and will instead utilize a bar and grill license for the establishment.  There being no further 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public 
hearing and referred the application to the Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating a new Section 9.01.010, Definitions of Title 9, 
Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal. Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated April 11, 2022, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Mayor Collins advised the substitute removes the definit ion of harassment.  Motion to amend by 
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception 
of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”.   Upon inquiry, Mayor Collins explained the purpose of the substitute 
is to remove the definition of harassment because it evoked stalking laws per state statute.  Main 
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with the 
exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave voting “no”. (#4427) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Repealing Ordinance No. 3465, and reestablishing and 
redefining ward boundaries within the City of Cheyenne.   Jordan Evans, Coordinator of GIS 
Cooperative, provided information on the boundary changes noting the city and county have 
worked together on the boundary changes.  Boyd Wiggam, advocated for the Council to consider 
expanding the number of w ards, referenced  a Wyoming Tribune -Eagle editorial which  also 
recommended expanding wards and noted results of a poll where a  majority of people that  
participated agreed that wards should be expanded.  Mr. Wiggam requested that if there is adequate 
interest for expansion of wards, to not advance the ordinance and let a process through the county 
take place.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. 
Cook moved to amend by substitute dated April 18, 2022, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mayor Collins 
explained the substitute includes actual survey language that was previously not included and that 
the map didn’t change.  Comment was made that constituents are interested in expanding wards , 
however due to timing constraints, it is not conducive at this time.  Motion to amend by substitute 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present.  Upon inquiry, Mr.  Evans 
provided current population amounts for each ward using census data and noted the counts do not 
include anyone living in the Sweetgrass development.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#4428) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the City of Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee 
Schedule.  Reporting for Fi nance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”. (#4429) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Increasing the compensation for the Mayor of the City 
of Cheyenne, commencing January 1, 2025.   Mr. White moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no” and Mayor Collins who abstained. 
(#4430)  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Increasing the compensation for members of the City 
Council of the City of Cheyenne and providing an effective date.  Mr. White moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook and Mr. White voting 
“no”. (#4431)    
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AR Agricultural Residential to Harmony Valley 
Planned Unit Development (Ordinance #4274) for land located north of West College Drive and 
east of York Avenue.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.   
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 10.52.030, Parking Not to Obstruct 
Traffic, of Chapt er 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and 
Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present.   
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 9.12.080, Electric Fences Prohibited, 
of Chapter 9.12, Offenses Against Property, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.   
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 10.52.230 Downtown 
Construction/Maintenance Worker Parking in an Established Timed  Parking Zone, of Chapter 
10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of 
the City of Cheyenne – referred to Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. WHITE) 
   
 RESOLUTION – Amending the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities 
Construction Specifications and Standard Drawings, 2014 Edition .  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated April 9, 2022, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  Frank Strong, Board of Public Utilities, explained the substitute is to update the 
water meter pit detail  drawing which is included in what is required for installation.   Motion to 
amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present.  Main 
motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#6227) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plan 2022, prepared by 
the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office – referred to Finance  Committee. 
(SPONSOR – DR. ALDRICH) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting a City of Cheyenne Healthcare Plan, a City of Cheyenne 
Health Benefit Trust, and appointing fiduciaries for the Plan and Trust – referred to Finance 
Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. WHITE)    
    
[CA] RESOLUTION – Accepting a U.S. Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency 
Management Agency Fiscal Year 2020 Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities Grant 
– referred to Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. WHITE) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Declaring that the Municipalities of Laramie County have agreed that 
the current State Statutes regarding the designation of liquor licenses issued by the governing 
bodies of said municipalities are stifling economic growth, and are requesting the State Legislative 
committees and State Legislature review, consider, and adopt modifications to state statutes 
regarding said licenses – referred to Finance Committee. (S PONSORS – DR. ALDRICH, MR. 
COOK, MR. ESQUIBEL, MR. JOHNSON, DR. RINNE, MR. ROYBAL AND MR. WHITE) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department 
of Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Program Grant to provide the local 
match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit Progr am, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C § 5311 (5311 WYDOT Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. (S PONSOR – MR. 
WHITE) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving an amendment to the Hitching Post Urban Renewal Plan and 
the Hitching Post Urban Renewal Project Pursuant to Wyoming  Statute §15-9-110 – referred to 
Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. SEGRAVE)    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15 -9-107 finding and declaring parts of 
the 15 th Street Corridor in the City of Cheyenne as blight and authorizing the redevelopment 
thereof – referred to Public Services Committee.  (SPONSOR – MR. SEGRAVE) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(SPONSOR – MR. WHITE) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a United States 
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administrati on American Rescue Plan Act 
Travel, Tourism, and Outdoor Recreation Grant for the 15 th Street Railcar Renovation Project – 
referred to Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. WHITE) 
  
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Martin/Martin 
Wyoming, Inc. for the Belvoir Ranch Pedestrian Bridge – Civil, Bridge Design, and 
Bidding/Construction Services (Belvoir Ranch Recreation Fund).  Mr. White moved to approve in 
an amount not to exceed $185,700.00 , seconded by Mr . Roybal.  Comments and concerns were 
expressed on the following topics: concern of expending money for bridge design when there are 
many unknowns including bridge location  in conjunction with existing railroad tracks, Belvoir 
Ranch access, inquiry as to how the agreement came to be, actual bridge expenditures, concern s 
relating to agreement and budget allocation, agreement with railroad and reference to an email 
from Domenic Bravo, Visit Cheyenne, that provides information on a grant for different elements 
at the Belvoir  Ranch.   Upon inquiry, Mayor Collins advised that in order to access the wind 
turbines and the trailhead, more roads will need to be built.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”. (#7507) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County Weed & Pest Control District 
and the City of Cheyenne Weed & Pest Department for funding of the goat grazing on the Dry 
Creek and Crow Creek drainage projects – referred to Finance Committee. (Revenue to the City)  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District Number One to provide Civic Center usage to Laramie County School District 
Number One Music Department – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of second Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Swagger 
Construction, LLC, and Banner Capital Bank for Tax Increment Financing for the Hitching Post 
Urban Renewal Plan & Project (TIF Funding) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7465 between the City of Cheyenne and Plan One / 
Architects for the Emergency Response Facility Design and Construction Administration Services 
Project adding civil infrastructure d esign (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Bid #E-7-21 for Ice Control Product for the City of Cheyenne 
Street & Alley Division (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.                 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7379 between the City of Cheyenne and Lance & 
Hall LLP for renewal of public defense services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
          
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-15-22 for furnishing two (2) new small articulated loaders and 
one (1) new heavy duty vehicle for the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation & Events 
Department (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax Funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted 
bid from Bobcat of the Rockies, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $186,380.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-22-22 for furnishing three (3) new infield groomers for the 
Community Recreation - Events Department – Parks Division (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax Funding).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Stotz Equipment, Evansville, WY, in an 
amount not to exceed $98,550.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-18-22 for furnishing twenty -nine (29) trucks for the City of 
Cheyenne, Community Recreation & Events Department, Fleet Maintenance Division and Animal 
Control Division (2015-2018 & 2019-2022 1% Sales Tax Funding and Specific Purpose Sales Tax 
Funding) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-24-22 for the surplus sale of City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department evidence seized firearms (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-23-22 for the surplus sale of City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department owned firearms (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-26-22 for furnishing a digital storage hardware expansion for the 
City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department (Specific Purpose Sales Tax Funding an d Byrne 
Justice Assistance Grant (JAG)) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -15-22 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Great 
Western Installations for the synthetic turf safety surfacing for Romero Park and Sun Valley Park 
Playgrounds Project (Development Impact Fees and Land and Water Conservation Grants) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 One available retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office by Ace’s 
Range LLC d/b/a Ace’s Range LLC, 1505 Pioneer Ave., Big D Oil Co. d/b/a Big D Oil #56, 4100 
Whitney Rd., Billy Jacks - Wyoming LLC d/b/a Billy Jack’s Pizza Pub, 4020 Airport Parkway 
West, Suite 1, Capitol Cuisine LLC d/b/a Ike’s Bar & Grill, 122 W. 6 th St., Ful-O-Pep d/b/a The 
Old Cheyenne Elevator, 800 W. 21st St., Get Bent, LLC d/b/a Get Bent, LLC, 707 W. Lincolnway,  
Peaches’ Package Liquor & Bar LLC d/b/a Peaches’ Package Liquor & Bar LLC, Anderson 
Corner, 3 rd Filing, Lot 2, Block 1, Vitamin Co ttage Natural Food Markets, Inc. d/b/a Natural 
Grocers, 1851 Dell Range Blvd., Westby Edge LLC d/b/a Westby Edge LLC, 714 W. 20th St. and 
Wyoming Downs OTB 14 LLC d/b/a Wyoming Downs OTB 14, 1345 Dell Range Blvd., 
Cheyenne.  Mayor announced Billy Jack’s  Pizza Pub has withdrawn their application  and has 
submitted an application for a bar & grill license and announced public comments will be limited 
to 3 minutes.  Seth Stefanik, co -owner of Los Conejos and Micro Popup Concepts, provided 
background information on the Los Conejos food truck explaining it was a very successful startup 
business during Covid. He provided information on the “ghost kitchen ” concept noting it is a  
professional food preparation and c ooking facility for delivery -only meals and doesn’t include a 
storefront or indoor seating. The concept also includes QR codes posted around town that can be 
accessed for ghost kitchen information including how to place orders and information on deliveries 
and pickups.  Darrin Westby, Westby Edge LLC,  expressed appreciation to the governing body 
for consideration of their application  and also their consideration for the resolution addressing 
stifling state statutes involving liquor licenses  in hopes that le gislative changes are made.  Mr. 
Westby advised he a ppreciates focus on blighted areas through town and acknowledged council 
members were placed in an unfortunate situation, but applicants were also put in a difficult position 
as they were competing agains t friends.  April Brimmer Kunz, Aces Range  LLC, echoed Mr. 
Westby’s concerns with antiquated liquor laws and expressed appreciation to the governing body 
for their efforts to initiate change.  Ms. Brimmer Kunz advised t hey will proceed with opening 
their business and continue to work to bring logic to the liquor licensing process and that noted 
she fully intends to engage as a lobbyist for not only Aces Range LLC but also for the city and 
state.  She noted that she had learned there are 55 available licenses in the county and expressed 
support for Get Bent, LLC.  Mayor Collins explained the 55 county licenses can’t be used within 
5 miles of city limits so they would have to be utilized in rural areas.  Chad Willett, Get Bent , 
LLC, advised they have applied for a pre-application meeting that is scheduled for this week with 
the Planning and Development Department for conditional use.   Mr. Willett noted they w ill 
continue to stand with colleagues for reform of  antiquated liquor license requirements moving 
forward and applauded members of the governing body for their resolution addressing stifling state 
statutes involving liquor licenses.  Jen Seitz, The Old Cheyenne Elevator, spoke in support of all 
projects, voiced concern regarding reverting the license based on a timeline as it may be difficult 
to achieve.  She spoke about the Metropolitan and how they opened a craft liquor store while the 
remainder of the business was  being completed and noted 7 months is a very tight timeframe to 
achieve a certificate of occupancy due to supply chain and other factors.  Ms. Seitz referenced how 
long it took the Municipal Building to reopen to the public due to supply chain issues and advised 
state statutes outline a timeframe in which businesses have to become operational and suggested 
there not be any additional restrictions added to the license.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve Get 
Bent, LLC d/b/a Get Bent, LLC, 707 W. Lincolnway, with the following condition: “if the license 
does not receive a full certificate of occupancy by December 31, 2022, the license reverts in whole 
to the City of Cheyenne”, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Upon inquiry, City Attorney Stefanie Boster 
explained a full certificate of occupancy would req uire that the F ire Marshall and B uilding 
Department inspect and approve, all pertinent city codes are met including the planning process 
with a site plan.  The following comments were made related to the application for Get Bent, LLC: 
applicant does not meet the guidelines of restoring a blighted building , concerns of the business 
fully utilizing the license in regards to a full service restaurant, and very limited space for package 
store, dining, bar etc. , timeline provided by Planning and Development Director Charles Bloom 
indicates it will be a challenge for the  business to meet the conditions timeline and opinion that 
Westby Edge is closer to meeting all re quirements.  Upon inquiry, Mayor Collins advised the  
governing body would have  the ability to extend  the deadline.  City Clerk Kris Jones further 
explained the timeline extension would  go back before  the g overning body for approval . Ms. 
Boster advised the governing body is currently  awarding the liquor license and the license won’t 
be issued until a full certificate of occupancy is received, noting  the council has full authority to 
bring the license back before the governing body for considerati on of a timeline extension.  
Discussion continued and included: support for the Get Bent , LLC concept downtown, available 
liquor license options for other applicants, difficulty meeting timeframe requirement, request to 
exercise grace while working with the licensee regarding the timeframe requirement, and request 
that any anticipated delays be shared with the council.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.   
 
Upon inquiry, Robin Lockman, City Treasurer provided information on a voucher payable 
to Christa McDonald for volunteer hours for the Foster Grandparent program noting federal funds 
are received for the program and distributed to the program volunteers by the c ity.  Dr. Aldrich 
provided further information advising it is a pass-through program and volunteers receive minimal 
compensation.  Vicki Nemecek, upon inquiry, provided information on a voucher payable to 
Cheryl Y. Tottenhoff Living Trust noting the Street and Alley rental is across the street from their 
facility and is used to store sweepers.  No further comments were made on the Voucher Report as 
presented. 
 
No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Appointment of Robert C. Jarosh as City Hearing Officer for the City of Cheyenne.  Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral 
appointment). 
 
Appointment of Brian Eicholtz to the International Fire Code Board of Appeals.  Mr. 
Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral 
appointment). 
 
Reappointments of Kyle Wall and Lane Pilbin to the International Fire Code Board of 
Appeals.  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the g overning body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote 
(mayoral appointment). 
    
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the June 9, 2022 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Summer Convention Business 
Meeting to be held in Laramie, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 9, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-
402 exist for 2600 Missile Drive (located east of I-25, north of Missile Drive) 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 9, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-
402 exist for Saddle Ridge, 18th Filing (located northwest of the intersection of Christensen Road 
and Pershing Boulevard). 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 9, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-
402 exist for a portion of the S1/2 of Section 27, T.13N., R.67W, of the 6 th PM, Laramie County, 
WY (located west of I-25, north of High Plains Road).   
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 9, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting 
for a for a bar and grill license application filed  with the City Clerk’s Office for Billy Jacks – 
Wyoming LLC d/b/a Billy Jack’s Pizza Pub, 4020 Airport Parkway West Suite 1, Cheyenne, WY. 
 
Announcement of a Public Hearing to be held May 9, 2022  at 6:00 p.m. in City Council 
Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting for a for 
a microbrewery license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Blue Raven Brewery, 
LLC, d/b/a Blue Raven Brewery, LLC, 209 E. 18th St., Cheyenne, WY. 
 Under other business:   
 
 Jim Ridgeway inquired on the process of cleaning storm drains.  Vicki Nemecek, Director 
of Public Works, explained the inlet cleaning process which includes one truck and one crew that 
starts downtown and works their way out to clean about 3,000 inlets once a year.  She noted the 
cleanings can only take place when weather cooperates and if there is a particular problematic 
area, a request can be called in for maintenance.  
 
 Upon inquiry by Mr.  Ridgeway, Mayor Collins provided information on outstanding 
parking tickets and how much was collected during the  amnesty period noting outstanding    
parking fees continue to be a challenge that is being addressed.  He further explained that typically 
people who have outstanding tickets are aware they have them and they aren’t paying them.   
 
 Mr. Laybourn advised he recently visited the mobile home park located at 316 Central 
Avenue with the Building and Nuisance department directors.  He explained the situation and 
condition of the mobile home park is out of control with trailer homes that are busted open and 
debris scattered everywhere, noting the property owner isn’t capable of remedying the issue .  He 
expressed the urgency of cleaning up the property, particularly cleaning up debris along Crow 
Creek.  Mr. Laybourn referenced issues with the lien process, trouble with property in the past and 
also with scenarios that involve the city cleaning up the property and not being able to collect 
money. Mayor Collins  advised he a nd the Chief of Staff recently visited the area and they are 
working with staff to start a process to clean up the area. 
 
 Dr. Aldrich noted she had attended the Cheyenne Animal Shelter F ur Ball recently and 
provided information on money raised for the event that will help with the facility and taking care 
of animals in the community. 
 
 Mr. Johnson provided information on 3 upcoming events that benefit Rooted in Cheyenne 
starting Friday, April 29th at Freedom’s Edge, May 7th at Tribe Tattoo and May 14th, which is the 
spring planting day. 
 
 Mr. Roybal moved to meet in executive session  pursuant to Wy oming Statute §16 -4-
405(a)(iii)(vii)(x), seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session,  not open 
to the public; requested the City Attorney, City Clerk, City Treasurer, Chief of Staff and members 
of Planning and Development staff be in attendance and stated there would be no action taken by 
the governing body as a result of the executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting 
would officially conclude at the close of the executive session.  (Clerk’s Note: executive session 
convened at 7:42 p.m.) 
 
 
 Following closure of the executive session, Mayor Collins reconvened the regular meeting 
at 8:29 p.m. 
 
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:29 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  May 4, 2022 
 