MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-05-09 | CLIP_ID: 849 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 849

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 9, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich (via Zoom), Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
  
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the de signation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. White, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Roybal and Mr. Cook, agenda item #’s 36(b), 36(c), 37(c) and 40(b)  were removed from 
the Consent Agenda.   Mr. Roybal moved to approve  remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne 
voting “no”.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 25, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
      Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for 2600 Missile Drive (located east of 
I-25, north of Missile Drive).  Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development Department, provided 
information on the property, noting it is already partially in the city, and reviewed requirements of 
compliance with annexation conditions contained in state statutes .  Upon inquiry , Mr. Lloyd 
advised the current development is a lumber company and the use will be expanded.  Jim Ridgeway 
inquired if the property location is adjacent to or on an  abandoned city landfill.  Charles Bloom, 
Director of Planning and Development, explained that since the property is already developed, the 
location has no bearing on the annexation and if there is any contamination it is the landowner’s 
responsibility.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been 
met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a p ublic hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for Saddle Ridge, 18 th Filing (located 
northwest of the intersection of Christensen Road and Pershing Boulevard). Seth Lloyd, Planning 
and Development Department, provided information on the property, noting it is a continuation of 
the Saddle Ridge development and will include Pershing and Christensen rights-of-way and there 
will be no facilities on the site.   Mr. Lloyd further reviewed requirements of compliance with 
annexation conditions contained in state statutes.  There being no further comments or input and 
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 Mayor Collins opened a public to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions 
required by Wyoming Statute §15 -1-402 exist for a portion of the S1/2 of Section 27, T.13N., 
R.67W, of the 6 th PM, Laramie County, WY (located west of I -25, north of High Plains Road).   
Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development Department, provided information on the property, noting 
the property will contain an entertainment facility, and reviewed requirements of compliance with 
annexation conditions contained in state statutes .  There being no further comments or input and 
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a bar and grill license application filed with the 
City Clerk’s Office for Billy Jacks – Wyoming LLC d/b/a Billy Jack’s Pizza Pub, 4020 Airport 
Parkway West Suite 1, Cheyenne, WY.   Jerry Cox, Director of Operations for Billy Jack ’s Pizza 
Pub, advised he was available for  questions. Upon inquiry, Mr. Cox explained the  application is 
for their airport location and the application was submitted prior to consideration of the airport 
submitting an application pursuant to recently passed House Bill 0055 for a retail liquor license .  
Mr. Cox noted they have a meeting with the airport director later this week  about submitting an 
application for a retail liquor license.  Support for the business at the airport was expressed.  Upon 
inquiry, Kris Jones, City Clerk, explained the retail liquor license must be applied for by the airport 
and the airport can contract with one entity for food and beverage services.  There being no further 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public 
hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public  hearing for a microbrewery license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Blue Raven Brewery, LLC, d/b/a Blue Raven Brewery, LLC, 209 E. 
18th St., Cheyenne, WY.  Richard Hart, Blue Raven Brewery, explained they are in the process of 
acquiring the current Danielmark’s Brewery and advised he was available for questions.  There 
being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins 
closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AR Agricultural Residential to Harmony Valley 
Planned Unit Development (Ordinance #4274) for land located north of West College Drive and 
east of York Avenue.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. (#4432)   
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 10.52.030, Parking Not to Obstruct 
Traffic, of Chapter 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and 
Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave .  Mr. Cook moved to postpone until May 23, 2022, 
seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion to postpone  carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 9.12.080, Electric Fences Prohibited, 
of Chapter 9.12, Offenses Against Property, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4433)   
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 10.52.230 Downtown 
Construction/Maintenance Worker Parking in an Established Timed Parking Zone, of Chapter 
10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of 
the City of Cheyenne.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated May 2, 2022, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mayor Collins explained the substitute defines the affected area as the 
DDA district.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the Cit y of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northwest of the intersection of Christensen Road and Pershing Boulevard – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A1 Agricultural and Rural Residential 
to MR Medium-Density Residential for land located northwest of the intersection of Christensen 
Road and Pershing Boulevard – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Missile Drive, east of I -25 – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial to LI Light Industrial 
for land located north of Missile Drive, east of I -25 – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheye nne, Wyoming, land 
located north of High Plains Road, west of I-25 – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor 
– Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from Swa n Ranch PUD Unit Development to City 
Swan Ranch PUD Planned Unit Development (Ordinance No. 3989) for land located north of High 
Plains Road, west of I-25 – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis to CB 
Community Business for land located northeast of the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and 
Ridge Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MR Medium -
Density Residential for land located southeast of the intersection of Omaha Road and Pine Drive 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Vacating a portion of the Goodnight Trail Roundabout, 
Sweetgrass, 1st Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County,  Wyoming (located along Goodnight 
Trail, between College Drive and Murray Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor 
– Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Vacating a portion of the Sweetgrass Drive Roundabout, 
Sweetgrass, 1st Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located along Sweetgrass 
Drive, Between College Drive and Murray Road) – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Creating Chapter 13.28, Urban Stormwater Quality 
Management a nd Discharge Control, Public Services, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system developmen t fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities  – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Appropriating moneys f or the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for various purposes in conducting municipal government of said City and fixing the 
amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, 
all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2022 and ending June 30, 2023 – referred to Committee 
of the Whole. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
   
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the City of Cheyenne Annual Action Plan 2022, prepared by 
the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6228) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Adopting a City of Cheyenne Healthcare Plan, a City of Cheyenne 
Health Benefit Trust, and appointing fiduciaries for the Plan and Trust.  Mr. White moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Johnson advised he would be abstaining from discussion and voting 
due to an employment conflict of interest.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson who abstained. (RES #6229/ CONT #7514) 
    
[CA] RESOLUTION – Accepting a U.S. Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency 
Management Agency Fiscal Year 2020 Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities Grant.  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (RES #6230/ CONT #7515) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESOLUTION – Declaring that the Municipalities of Laramie County have agreed that 
the current State Statutes regarding the designation of liquor licenses issued by the governing 
bodies of said municipalities are stifling economic growth, and are requesting the State Legislative 
committees and State Legislature review, consider, and adopt modifications to state statutes 
regarding said licenses.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. White moved 
to amend by substitute dated May 3, 2022, seco nded by Mr. Segrave. Mayor Collins advised the 
substitute includes the addition of “food trucks” in the seventh “Whereas” paragraph.  Motion to 
amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  It was noted that 
food trucks were added since they have become popular since liquor laws were originally written, 
and comment was made that the resolution was left vague to give the legislature flexibility.  Main 
motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
(#6231) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department 
of Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Program Grant to provide the local 
match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit Program, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C § 5311 (5311 WYDOT Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6232) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving an amendment to the Hitching Post Urban Renewal Plan and 
the Hitching Post Urban Renewal Project Pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15 -9-110.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6233)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15-9-107 finding and declaring parts of 
the 15 th Street Corridor in the City of Cheyenne as blight and authorizing the redevelopment 
thereof.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6234) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6235) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the City of Cheyenne’s application for a United States 
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration American Rescue Plan Act 
Travel, Tourism, and Outdoor Recreation Grant for the 15 th Street Railcar Renovation Project .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6236) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Stanfield 
Apartments, a replat of Lots 1 -4, & Lots 9 -12, and that portion of the 16’ alley situate between 
Lots 1-4 & 9-12 Block 16, Roberts Place and that portion of vacated  West 4th Street right-of-way, 
Interior Heights adjoining Lots 9-12, Block 16, Roberts Place, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located south of West 5th Street, west of Stanfield Avenue) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for 
Harmony Valley, Second Filing, a replat of Lot 1, Block 8, Harmony Valley First Filing, City of 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.  (located north of College Drive, between Elsie Jean Trail 
and York Avenue – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – To name a triangle shaped parcel of real property located at the 
intersection of Randall Avenue, West 32nd Street and Dey Avenue ‘Bill Dubois Memorial Park’ – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
  
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between Laramie County Weed & Pest Control District 
and the City of Cheyenne Weed & Pest Department for funding of the goat grazing on the Dry 
Creek and Crow Creek drainage projects.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount of 
$80,000.00). (#7510) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District Number One to provide Civic Center usage to Laramie County School District 
Number One Music Department.   Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. 
White moved to amend by substitute dated May 2, 2022, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Mayor Collins 
explained the substitute clarifies the city will provide up to three (3) free one day events annually.   
Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main 
motion as amended  by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the gove rning body. 
(#7511) 
 
 Consideration of second Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Swagger 
Construction, LLC, and Banner Capital Bank for Tax Increment Financing for the Hitching Post 
Urban Renewal Plan & Project (TIF Funding) .  Charles Bloom, Director of Planning and 
Development, explained he requested the item to be removed from consent agenda as there is an 
important component to the motion that should be included that will allow the Mayor to sign any 
necessary security agreements.  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$460,000.00, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. White moved to amend to approve and authorize the 
Mayor to sign any necessary security agreements, seconded by Mr . Segrave . Main motion as 
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   Main motion as amended 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7512) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Benchmark 
Engineers, PC, for engineer ing design services for the Christensen Road Design modifications 
project (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the city of Cheyenne and Laramie County for Animal Control Services 
(Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Telecommunications Right-of-Way License and Use Agreement between Mountain West 
Technologies Corp and the City of Cheyenne (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne and VSP Vision Care for group vision insurance 
benefits for city employees – referred to Finance Committee.    
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7465 between the City of Cheyenne and Plan One / 
Architects for the Emergency Response Facility Design and Construction Administration Services 
Project adding civil infrastructure design (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $45,000.00). (#7465) 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Bid #E-7-21 for Ice Control Product for the City of Cheyenne 
Street & Alley Division (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax).  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount 
not to exceed $50,000.00, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works, 
explained the modification is to add a fuel escalator to the current bid due to increasing fuel prices, 
noting a fuel escalator is the cost for the company to deliver their product.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson and Mr. 
Laybourn voting “no”.  
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7379 between the City of Cheyenne and Lance & 
Hall LLP for renewal of public defense services (General Fund). Mr. White moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated May 2, 2022, seconded 
by Mr. Johnson.  Mayor Collins explained the substitute removes the word “minimum” from the 
attorney qualifications.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of 
the governing body. (#7379) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1  to Contract #7427 between the City of Cheyenne and 
Russell+Mills Studios Inc., for the East Cheyenne Community Park Master Site Development Plan 
(Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract  #6837 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental for group 
dental insurance benefits for city employees – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7475 between the City of Cheyenne and Front 
Range Roofing Systems, LLC, for the Ice and Events Center Roof Replacement Project (General 
Fund Reserves) – referred to Finance Committee. 
          
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-18-22 for furnishing twenty -nine (29) trucks for the City of 
Cheyenne, Community Recreation & Events Department, Fleet Maintenance Division and Animal 
Control Division (2015-2018 & 2019-2022 1% Sales Tax Funding and Specific Purpose Sales Tax 
Funding).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Ken Garff, Cheyenne, in an 
amount not to exceed $1,624.663.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-24-22 for the surplus sale of City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department evidence seized firearms (Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Proforce Law Enforcement, Prescott, AZ, in an amount not to exceed 
$13,198.70).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-23-22 for the surplus sale of City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department owned firearms (Revenue to the City) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Proforce Law Enforcement, Prescott, AZ, in an amount not to exceed 
$5,326.65). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-26-22 for furnishing a digital storage hardware expansion for the 
City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department (Specific Purpose Sales Tax Funding and Byrne 
Justice Assistance Grant (JAG)).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Lewan 
Technology, Greenwood Village, CO, in an amount not to exceed $43,766.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -15-22 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Great 
Western Installations for the synthetic turf safety surfacing for Romero Park and Sun Valley Park 
Playgrounds Project (Development Impact Fees and Land and Water Conservation Grants) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Great Western Installations, Logan, UT, 
in an amount not to exceed $143,051.88). (#7513) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -25-22 for furnishing a professional audio reinforcement system 
for the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation and Events Department (Civic Center Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Thomson Reuters, for a three 
(3) year software agreement to utilize the WestLaw Legal Research Platform for the City of 
Cheyenne Attorney’s office (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Request to purchase a us ed brush truck style vehicle for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Fire and Rescue Department (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.             
      
[CA] Transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for 307 Horse Racing, Inc. d/b/a The Derby Club - Cheyenne, 1510 E. Pershing, Cheyenne, W Y 
(license currently held by Stults Management, LLC d/b/a The Office Bar &  Eatery, 1600 E. 
Pershing Blvd.). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Bar and grill license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Stults Management 
LLC d/b/a The Office Bar & Eatery, 1600 E. Pershing Blvd. #100, Cheyenne, WY.   Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried.  
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the June 9, 2022 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Summer Co nvention Business 
Meeting to be held in Laramie, Wyoming.   Mr. White moved to approve  Councilman Dr. Mark 
Rinne as official voting delegate and Mayor Patrick Collins as alternate voting delegate, seconded 
by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 23, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Westby Edge LLC 
d/b/a Westby Edge LLC, 714 W. 20th St., Cheyenne, WY. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 23, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
for a microbrewery liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Westby Edge 
LLC d/b/a Westby Edge LLC, 714 W. 20th St., Cheyenne, WY. 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 23, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
to receive comments and input for the Hynds and the Hole Urban Renewal Plan and Proj ect as 
required by Wyoming Statute pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15-9-109.   
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 23, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
to receive comments and input for the 15 th Street Corridor Renewal Plan and Project as required 
by Wyoming Statute pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15-9-109.   
Announcement was made that a Calcutta, benefitting the Black Dog Animal Rescue, will 
be held Friday, June 3, 2022, beginning at 6:00 p.m. at Alf’s Pub and Bar, 1622 E. 19 th Street, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming in conjunction with the 2022 Black Dog Animal Rescue Cornhole 
Tournament (35% of proceeds go to the Black Dog Animal Rescue).   
 Under other business:   
 
 Mr. Johnson provided information on the Rooted in Cheyenne planting event to be held on 
Saturday, May 14, 2022 and applauded Community Recreation and Events staff for the Friday’s 
on the Plaza concert announcement event.   
 
 Mr. Segrave provided information on the Downtown Cleanup event to be held Saturday, 
May 14, 2022 starting at 10 a.m., noting another cleanup will be done before Cheyenne Frontier 
Days. 
 
 Mr. Roybal moved to meet in executive session  pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16 -4-
405(a)(iii)(vii), seconded by Mr. Segrave .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session,  not open 
to the public; requested the City Attorney, City Clerk, City Treasurer, Chief of Staff and members 
of Planning and Development staff be in attendance and stated there would be no action taken by 
the governing body as a result of the executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting 
would officially conclude at the close of the executive session.  (Clerk’s Note: executive session 
convened at 6:42 p.m.) 
 
 Following closure of the executive session, Mayor Collins reconvened the regular meeting 
at 7:13 p.m. 
 
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:13 p.m.   
 
 
 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  May 19, 2022 
 