MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-05-23 | CLIP_ID: 851 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 851

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 23, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Ken Esquibel, Richard Johnson, 
Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave (via Zoom) and Jeff White. Absent: 
Bryan Cook.  Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 EXPRESSION OF APPRECIATION TO THE 2021-2022 MAYOR’S YOUTH 
COUNCIL AND STATE OF THE YOUTH ADDRESS.  
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda . Upon request by  Mr. Laybourn and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Roybal  and Mr. Johnson, items #26, 36(a) and 36(c) were removed from the 
Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. White, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Esquibel 
and Mr. Roybal, agenda item #37(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.   Dr. Aldrich moved 
to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present.   
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 9 , 202 2.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Westby Edge LLC d/b/a Westby Edge LLC, 714 W. 20th St., Cheyenne, 
WY.  Public comment was made by Misha Westby.  There being no further comments or input 
and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred 
the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a p ublic hearing for a microbrewery license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Westby Edge LLC d/b/a Westby Edge LLC, 714 W. 20th St., Cheyenne, 
WY.  There being no  comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor 
Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for the Hynds and 
the Hole Urban Renewal Plan and Project as required by Wyoming Statute pursuant to Wyoming 
Statute §15-9-109.  Public comment was made by Alex Davison, Patton & Davison, LLC. There 
being no further comment or input, and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins 
closed the public hearing. 
 Mayor Collins opened a p ublic hearing to receive comments a nd input for the 15 th Street 
Corridor Renewal Plan and Project as required by Wyoming Statute pursuant to Wyoming Statute 
§15-9-109.  Comment was made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich 
and Mr. Laybourn. There being no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, 
Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 10.52.030, Parking Not to Obstruct 
Traffic, of Chapter 10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and 
Traffic, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. (Postponed from May 9, 2022).  Reporting 
for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Johnson.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated May 3, 2022 , seconded by Mr.  
Johnson. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins, 
Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave.   Motion to amend by 
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present.  Main motion as 
amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with 
the exception of Mr. Segrave voting “no”. (#4434) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 10.52.230 Downtown 
Construction/Maintenance Worker Parking in an Established Timed Parking Zone, of Chapter 
10.52, Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally, of Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of 
the City of Cheyenne.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  (#4435) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northwest of the intersection of Christensen Road and Pershing Boulevard .  Dr. Rinne 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A1 Agricultural and Rural Residential 
to MR Medium-Density Residential for land located northwest of the intersection of Christensen 
Road and Pershing Boulevard.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Missile Drive, east of I -25.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Comment was made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial to LI Light Industrial 
for land located north of Missile Drive, east of I -25.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of High Plains Road, west of I-25.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from Swan Ranch PUD Planned Unit Development 
to City Swan Ranch PUD Planned Unit Development (Ordinance No. 3989) for land located north 
of High Plains Road, west of I-25.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis to CB 
Community Business for land located northeast of the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and 
Ridge Road.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classifi cation from CB Community Business to MR Medium -
Density Residential for land located southeast of the intersection of Omaha Road and Pine Drive.  
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Vacating a portion of the Goodnight Trail Roundabout, 
Sweetgrass, 1st Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located along Goodnight 
Trail, between College Drive and Murray Road).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Rinne. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Vacating a portion of the Sweetgrass Drive Roundabout, 
Sweetgrass, 1st Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located along Sweetgrass 
Drive, Between College Drive and Murray Road).  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Creating Chapter 13.28, Urban Stormwater Quality 
Management and Discharge Control, Public Services, of the Code of the City of Cheye nne, 
Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities .  
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Esquibel .  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “ yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for various purposes in conducting municipal government of said City and fixing the 
amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, 
all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2022 and ending June 30, 2023.  Reporting for Committee 
of the Whole, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  The following is a summary 
of the proposed budget: General Fund, $59,636,705; Weed and Pest, $655,082; Youth Alternatives 
Grants, $ 937,492; Recreation Programs, $ 1,718,330 Community Development  Block Grant, 
$491,403; Law Enforcement Grants, $ 311,965; Transportation Planning, $ 1,094,765; Transit, 
$2,641,602; Juvenile Justice, $ 91,953; Special Friends, $ 47,132; Development Impact Fees, 
$1,387,858; One Percent Sales Tax 2019 -22, $11,407,963; Speci fic Purpose Option Tax,  
$504,995; Youth Activities /Ropes, $ 18,209; Golf Facilities, $ 318,700; Fleet Maintenance, 
$6,113,510; Solid Waste Management, $ 20,036,025; Civic Center, $ 2,285,354; Ice & Events 
Center, $ 839,431; Perpetual Care, $ 3,000; Total City, $ 110,541,474; Water Enterprise, 
$36,303,073; Sewer Enterprise, $17,374,778; Total Appropriation, $164,219,325. 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB, MUR, LI, and CB to MUB with the UU 
Overlay for land located in the West Edge District – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Stanfield 
Apartments, a replat of Lots 1 -4, & Lots 9 -12, and that portion of the 16’ alley situate between 
Lots 1-4 & 9-12 Block 16, Roberts Place and that portion of vacated  West 4th Street right-of-way, 
Interior Heights adjoining Lots 9-12, Block 16, Roberts Place, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located south of West 5 th Street, west of Stanfield Avenue).   Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6237) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for 
Harmony Valley, Second Filing, a replat of Lot 1, Block 8, Harmony Valley First Filing, City of 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.  (located north of College Drive, between Elsie Jean Trail 
and York Avenue.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6238) 
 
 RESOLUTION – To name a triangle shaped parcel of real property located at the 
intersection of Randall Avenue, West 32 nd Street and Dey Avenue ‘Bill Dubois Memorial .  Dr. 
Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Comments were made by the following members 
of the governing body: Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson vot ing “no”. 
(#6239) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Saddle 
Ridge, 18th Filing a plat of a portion of the east half of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., of the 6th P.M., 
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the intersec tion of 
Christensen Road and Pershing Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – 
Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Providing for partial vacation of the Storey Boulevard Extension Final 
Plat – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2022 and ending June 30, 2023 – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the 
Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2022 and ending June 30, 2023 – referred to Finance Committee.   
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the creation and appointment of a new Reed Avenue 
Corridor Steering Committee – referred to Public Services Committee.   (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich 
and Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the Hynds and the Hole Urban Renewal Plan and the Hynds 
and the Hole Urban Renewal Project pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15-9-110 – referred to Finance 
Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the 15 th Street Corridor Urban Renewal Plan and the 15 th 
Street Corridor Urban Renewal Project pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15 -9-110 – referred to 
Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Benchmark 
Engineers, PC, for engineering design services for the Christensen Road Design modifications 
project (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not 
to exceed $73,525.00). (#7520) 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the city of Cheyenne and Laramie County for Animal Control Services 
(Revenue to the City).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$109,000.00). (#7521) 
 
[CA]  Telecommunications Right-of-Way License and Use Agreement between Mountain West 
Technologies Corp and the City of Cheyenne (Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7522) 
 
  Contract between the City of Cheyenne and VSP Vision Care for group vision insurance 
benefits for city employees.  Mr. Johnson announced he would be abstaining from discussion and 
voting due to an employment conflict.  Mr.  White moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mr. Johnson who did not vote. (#7523) 
 
 Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and PKT Development, LLC, for 
two (2) public capital improvement projects for the Dell Range Blvd. Roadway Project and for the 
Whitney Road Roadway and Dell Range Blvd. Intersection Improvement Project .  Dr. Rinne 
advised the item was reviewed under other items fo r the agenda at the May 17, 2022 Public 
Services Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met.  Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated 
May 23, 2022, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Rinne. Motion to amend by substitute carried.   Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#7524) 
 
[CA]  Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District #1 to provide transportation services for the summer Rec Camp Program (General 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
                                
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Steiner Thuesen 
PLLC for the Cemetery Irrigation System Design Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred 
to Finance Committee.                              
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and GLM Design Group 
for the Dry Creek Master Plan Update and Drainage Code Review Project (2019 -2022 1% Sales 
Tax and Wyoming Office of Homeland Security/FEMA Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne  and the Wyoming 
Independent Citizen Coalition for public art projects – referred to Public Services Committee. 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Waste Management 
of Colorado, Inc., for the Recycling Services Project (Solid Waste Fund)  – referred to Finance 
Committee.  
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1  to Contract #7427 between the City o f Cheyenne and 
Russell+Mills Studios Inc., for the East Cheyenne Community Park Master Site Development Plan 
(Specific Purpose Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7427) 
 
Renewal of Contract  #6837 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental for group 
dental insurance benefits for city employees.  Mr. Johnson announced he would be abstaining from 
discussion and voting due to an employment conflict.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by 
Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the 
exception of Mr. Johnson who did not vote. (#6837) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7475 between the City of Cheyenne and Front 
Range Roofing Systems, LLC, for the Ice and Events Center Roof Repla cement Project (General 
Fund Reserves).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $10,720.00). 
(#7475) 
 
[CA] City Contract  #150, Notice of Renewal of Lease Number 57 -82HW-1-0171 from the 
United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, to lease the High Plains 
Grasslands Research Station (Revenue to City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract  #7319 between the City of Cheyenne and KLJ 
Engineering for mapping and surveying services for the Landfill and Compost Facility for a two -
year (2) extension (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.             
                                 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7500  between the City of Cheyenne and V & M 
Properties, LLC for property located at 1800 Westland Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the purpose 
of relocating the Cheyenne Transit System office and transfer station (Federal Grant WY -2021-
005-00 and Transit Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
          
 Consideration of Bid #E -25-22 for furnishing a professional audio reinforcement system 
for the City of Cheyenne, Communit y Recreation and Events Department (Civic Center Fund).   
Mr. White moved to accept bid from Brown Note Productions, Thornton, CO, in an amount not to 
exceed $457,722.00, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Comments were made by the following members 
of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Thomson Reuters, for a three 
(3) year software agreement to utilize the WestLaw Legal Research Platform for the City of 
Cheyenne Attorney’s office (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $83,216.64). (#7525) 
 
 Request to purchase a used brush truck style vehicle for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Fire and Rescue Department (Specific Purpose Sales Tax).   Mr. White moved to approve in an 
amount not to exceed $150,000.00 , seconded by Mr. Roybal .  Comments were  made by the 
following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Roybal.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.             
      
 Bar and grill license  application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Billy Jacks – 
Wyoming LLC d/b/a Billy Jack’s Pizza Pub, 4020 Airport Parkway West Suite 1, Cheyenne, WY.  
Public comment was made by Jerry Cox, Director of Operations for Billy Jack’s Pizza Pub.   Mr. 
White moved to approve, seconded by Mr . Roybal.  Mr. White moved to postpone to June 13, 
2022, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. 
 
[CA] Microbrewery license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Blue Raven 
Brewery, LLC, d/b/a Blue Raven Brewery, LLC, 209 E. 18 th St., Cheyenne, WY.   Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Public comment was made by Jim Ridgeway on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Appointment of Jason M. Sanchez as Community Recreation and Events Director for the 
City of Cheyenne effective July 6, 2022.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mayor 
Collins.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with the 
exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no” and Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointment). 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 13, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
for a bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for SAF Compliance 
LLC d/b/a Paris West Restaurant & Bar, 1719 Central Ave., Cheyenne, WY.   
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 13, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
for a proposed trade of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, described as a portion of 
Missile Drive, Block 1, consisting of 2.35 acres and having an appraised value of $547,658.00, to 
Retail Properties LLC, for real property owned by Retail Properties LLC, described as a portion 
of Grier Leech Addition, 4th Filing, Lot 4, Block 9, consisting of 2.89 acres and having an appraised 
value of $548,083.00.     
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 13, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
for a proposed trade of real property owned by the City  of Cheyenne, described as Storey Blvd. 
Extension:  Lot 1, Block 6, consisting of 2.24 acres and having an appraised value of $86,000.00, 
and 1720 Cleveland Ave., WYNN Addition:  Lot 1, Block 1, consisting of 2.18 acres and having 
an appraised value of $1,040,000.00, for real property owned by US 30 BP LLC, described as US 
30 Business Plaza, 2 nd Filing:  Lot 1, Block 1, consisting of 2.86 acres and having an appraised 
value of $1,350,000.00.       
   
 The Following members of the governing body made comments under other business  – 
Mr. White, Mayor Collins and Mr. Esquibel.  
 
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:47 p.m.   
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 2, 2022 