MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-06-13 | CLIP_ID: 853 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 853

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 13, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich (via Zoom), Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel (via Zoom), Richard Johnson,  Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal , Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Absent: Pete Laybourn. Also present: Kristina F. Jones , City Clerk.   The pledge of 
allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Cook and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal, items #23 and 27 were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. 
Segrave moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 23, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for  a bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s 
Office for SAF Compliance LLC d/b/a Paris West Restaurant & Bar, 1719 Central Ave., 
Cheyenne, WY .  Public comment was made by Corey Loghry .  Comment was made by the 
following members of the governing body: Mr. Johnson.   There being no further comments or 
input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and 
referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a proposed trade 
of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, described as a portion of Missile Drive, Block 1, 
consisting of 2.35 acres and having an appraised value of $547,658.00, to Retail Properties LLC, 
for real property owned by Retail Properties LLC, described as a portion of Grier Leech Addition, 
4th Filing, Lot 4, Block 9, consisting of 2.89 acres and having an appraised value of $548,083 .00. 
Purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing.  
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a proposed trade 
of real property owned by the City of Cheyenne, described as Storey Blvd. Exte nsion:  Lot 1, 
Block 6, consisting of 2.24 acres and having an appraised value of $86,000.00, and 1720 Cleveland 
Ave., WYNN Addition:  Lot 1, Block 1, consisting of 2.18 acres and having an appraised value of 
$1,040,000.00, for real property owned by US 30 BP LLC, described as US 30 Business Plaza, 2nd 
Filing:  Lot 1, Block 1, consisting of 2.86 acres and having an appraised value of $1,350,000.00.  
Purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a pub lic hearing to receive comments and input for proposed 
budgets for the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2023.  There being 
no comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public 
hearing.   
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northwest of the intersection of Christensen Road and Pershing Boulevard.  Reporting for 
Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4436) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A1 Agric ultural and Rural Residential 
to MR Medium-Density Residential for land located northwest of the intersection of Christensen 
Road and Pershing Boulevard.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voti ng “yes” – all members of the governing body  present. 
(#4437) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Missile Drive, east of I -25.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and reading, 
seconded by Mr . White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. (#4438) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial to LI Light Industrial 
for land located north of Missile Drive, east of I -25.  Mr. Cook moved to app rove on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#4439) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of High Plains Road, west of I -25.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. (#4440) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from Swan Ranch PUD Planned Unit Development 
to City Swan Ranch PUD Planned Unit Development (Ordinance No. 3989) for land located north 
of High Plains Road, west of I -25.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present. (#4441) 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis to CB 
Community Business for land located northeast of the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and 
Ridge Road.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4442) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the  zoning classification from CB Community Business to MR Medium -
Density Residential for land located southeast of the intersection of Omaha Road and Pine Drive.  
Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4443) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Vacating a portion of the Goodnight Trail Roundabout, 
Sweetgrass, 1st Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located along Goodnight 
Trail, between College Drive and Murray Road) .  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. (#4444) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Vacating a portion of the Sweetgrass Drive Roundabout, 
Sweetgrass, 1st Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located along Sweetgrass 
Drive, Between College Drive and Murray Road).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. (#4445) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Creating Chapter 13.28, Urban Stormwater Quality 
Management and Discharge Control, Public Services, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4446) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities .  
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
(#4447) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for various purposes in conducting municipal government of said City and fixing the 
amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said appropriation, 
all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2022 and ending June 30, 2023.  Reporting for Committee 
of the Whole, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Mr. Roybal moved to amend by subst itute dated June 8, 2022, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. 
Johnson.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#4448)  
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB, MUR, LI, and CB to MUB with the UU 
Overlay for land located in the West Edge District.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded b y Mr.  White.  Public comment was made by : Chad Willett, Get Bent LLC,  Darin 
Westby, Westby Edge LLC and Randy LeBeaumont, Randy’s Towing.  Comments were made by 
the following members of the governing body: Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Unified Development Code Section 1.4.4.f, 
Industrial Services Uses, to create a definition for Data Center and to amend definitions for 
clarification and amending Table 5-1, Zoning District Uses, of Unified Development Code Section 
5.1.4, Districts and Uses, to classify the Permissibility of Data Center – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 9.08.010(B)(3), Disturbance of the 
Peace and Disturbance of Property, Chapter 9.08, Offenses Against Public Peace and Decency, of 
Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a final plat for Saddle 
Ridge, 18th Filing a plat of a portion of the east half of Section 25, T.14N., R.66W., of the 6th P.M., 
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of 
Christensen Road and Pershing Boulevard).  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#6240) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Providing for partial vacation of the Storey  Boulevard Extension Final 
Plat.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6241) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2022 and ending June 30, 2023.  Mr. White moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Public comment was made by Glen Garrett.  Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Cook.  Dr. Aldrich 
moved to postpone to June 27, 2022, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to postpone carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Roybal voting 
“no”.   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the 
Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2022 and end ing June 30, 2023 .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6242) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the creation and appointment of a new Reed Avenue 
Corridor Steering Committee .   Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Public 
comment was made by Tony Lucero, A & C Feed Co. and Darin Westby, Westby Edge LLC.   Mr. 
Cook moved to postpone to June 27, 2022, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion to postpone carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving the Hynds and the Hole Urban Renewal Plan and the Hynds 
and the Hole Urban Renewal Project pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15-9-110.  Mr. White moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Public comment was made by Jim Weaver, #1 Properties.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Segrave.  Mr. 
Segrave amend by sub stitute dated June 10, 2022 (without condemnation), seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Motion to approve by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.   Main motion as amended by 
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception 
of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#6243) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving the 15 th Street Corridor Urban Renewal Plan and the 15 th 
Street Corridor Urban Renewal Project pursuant to Wyoming Statute §15 -9-110.  Mr. White 
advised the item  failed at Finance C ommittee.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr . 
Segrave.  Public comment was made by: Greg Vaughn, MHP, LLP, Casey Palma, Palma Land 
Planning and Chad Willett, Get Bent LLC.  Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. Mr. Segrave moved 
to amend by sub stitute dated June 10, 2022 , seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to amend by 
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present.   Main motion as 
amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body present. (#6244)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities to discharge 
uncollectible debts in the amount of $28,499.04 pursuant to Wyo. Stat.§ 16 -4-502 – referred to 
Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn)    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the continuation of the Opt ional One Percent Sales Tax for 
calendar years 2023 through 2026 and pledging that all revenues derived from this tax will be used 
for projects described in this resolution – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)     
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving a Special Use Permit for Oil and Gas Support Services for 
Lot 1, Block 1, Plains Industrial Park, 2 nd Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to Public 
Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Naming the new Community Park, located on the southwest corner of 
the intersection of E. Pershing Boulevard and Whitney Road, commonly referred as East Cheyenne 
Community Park to be known as Kiwanis Park – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsors 
– Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave)         
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Providing for partial vacation of the Frontier North Final Plat – referred 
to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)         
 
 
 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Community Recreation and Events 
Department to apply for a Cheyenne Community Recreation District Recreation Mill Grant to 
construct a multi-use storage facility at the Cheyenne Junior League Athletic Complex – referred 
to Finance Committee.   (Sponsor – Mr. White)         
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Planning and Development 
Department to accept a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Community -Wide Brownfield 
Assessment Grant to continue development efforts in the West Edge District – referred to Finance 
Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. White)         
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for federal funding through the Transportation Alternatives Program admi nistered by the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of design and right-of-way acquisition for 
a multi-use path for pedestrians and bicycles from the Sun Valley Open Space into East Cheyenne 
Community Park – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn)         
 
[CA]  Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District #1 to provide transportation services for the summer Rec Camp Program 
(Recreation Program Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7527) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services A greement between the City of Cheyenne and Steiner Thuesen 
PLLC for the Cemetery Irrigation System Design Project  (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $144,692.00). (#7528) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and GLM Design Group 
for the Dry Creek Master Plan Update and Drainage Code Review Project (2019 -2022 1% Sales 
Tax and Wyoming Office of Homeland Security/FEMA Grant) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda ) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $524,234.00). (#7529) 
 
[CA]  Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne  and the Wyoming 
Independent Citizen Coalition for public art projects .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#7530) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Waste Management 
of Colorado, Inc., for the Recycling Services Project (Solid Waste Fund) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $200,000.00). (#7531) 
 
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield for third party 
administrator services and for group health insurance benefits for City employees – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Granular Insurance Company for Stop Loss 
Insurance for City employees – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Brian Quinn for City 
Prosecutor Legal Counsel Services  (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] City Contract  #150, Notice of Renewal of Lease Number 57 -82HW-1-0171 from the 
United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, to lease the High Plains 
Grasslands Research Station (Revenue to City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#150) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract  #7319 between the City of Cheyenne and KLJ 
Engineering for mapping and surveying services for the Landfill and Compost Facility for a two -
year (2) extension (Solid Waste Fund).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an  amount not 
to exceed $99,232.00) (#7319)             
                                 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7500  between the City of Cheyenne and V & M 
Properties, LLC for property located at 1800 Westland Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the purpose 
of relocating the Cheyenne Transit System office and transfer station (Federal Grant WY -2021-
005-00 and Transit Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7500) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification  #1 to Contract #7151 between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Wyoming Business Council to extend the construction services completion deadline and 
agreement expiration date for the FE Warren Enhanced Use Lease Project – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-28-22 for multiple contracts between the City of Cheyenne and 
Solid Rock, 119, Inc. d/b/a Top-Flight Maintenance, Inc., for Janitorial Services for multiple City 
of Cheyenne Facilities (General Fund & Youth Activities Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-29-22 for twenty-four (24) four (4) yard front end load containers 
and twenty-four (24), eight (8) yard front end load containers for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation 
Division (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -14-22 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp. for the ADA Ramp Improvements for Evers Boulevard Project (2019 -2022 1% Sales Tax) 
– referred to Finance Committee.      
                                
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-16-22 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group 
Inc. d/b/a Knife River for the Nationway Overlay Phase 1 Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – 
referred to Finance Committee.        
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -17-22 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Casper 
Electric, Inc. for the Storey Boulevard and Ridge Road Signalized Intersection Project (2019-2022 
1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to pur chase between the City of Cheyenne and OpenGov Inc., for the 
purchase of a Software as a Service (SaaS) Solution for budgeting, financial management, 
procurement, citizen services, reporting, transparency, and asset management (American Rescue 
Plan Federal Recovery Funds) – referred to Finance Committee.  
                               
 
 Bar and grill license  application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Billy Jacks – 
Wyoming LLC d/b/a Billy Jack’s Pizza Pub, 4020 Airport Parkway West Suite 1, Cheyenne, WY 
(Postponed from May 23, 2022 ).  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave.   Mr. 
White moved to postpone until June 27, 2022.  Motion died due to lack of a second.      Motion 
carried.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, 
Mayor Collins and Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of th e governing 
body present. 
 
[CA] Bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Westby Edge 
LLC d/b/a Westby Edge LLC, 714 W. 20 th St., Cheyenne, WY . Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. 
[CA] Microbrewery liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Westby Edge 
LLC d/b/a Westby Edge LLC, 714 W. 20 th St., Cheyenne, WY.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. 
Public comment was made by Jim Ridgeway on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made that due to City offices being closed for the Juneteenth holiday 
on Monday, June 20, 2022, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be 
held in the Municipal Building, Room 104, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via 
electronic conference meetings as follows:  Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, June 21, 2022 
at Noon and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday, June 22, 2022 at Noon. 
   
Public comment was made by Jason Pasqua, Mayor’s Advisory Council on Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship. 
 
The Following members of the governing body made comments under other business – Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Johnson.  
 
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:39 p.m.   
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 23, 2022 