MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-06-27 | CLIP_ID: 855 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 855

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
June 27, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich (via Zoom), Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. White and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Roybal and Mr. Johnson, item #14 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request 
by Dr. Aldrich and pursuant to support received by Mr.  Johnson and Mr. Cook, item # 16 was 
removed from the Consent Agenda .  Upon request by  Mr. Laybourn and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. White and Mr. Cook, item #19 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon 
request by Mr. Laybourn and pursuant to support received by Mr. Johnson and Mr. Cook, item 
#20 was removed from the Consent Agenda .  Upon request by  Mr. Laybourn and pursuant to 
support received by Mr. Johnson and Mr. White, item #24(d) was removed from the Consent 
Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson who didn’t 
vote due to an employment conflict with an item on Consent Agenda. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 13, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB, MUR, LI, and CB to MUB with the UU 
Overlay for land located in the West Edge District.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. 
Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4449) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Unified Development Code Section 1.4.4.f, 
Industrial Services Uses, to create a definition for Data Center and to amend definitions for 
clarification and amending Table 5-1, Zoning District Uses, of Unified Development Code Section 
5.1.4, Districts and Uses, to classify the Permissibility of Data Center.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 9.08.010(B)(3), Disturbance of the 
Peace and Disturbance of Property, Chapter 9.08, Offenses Against Public Peace and Decency, of 
Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Dr. Rinne 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 2.40.020, Appointment of Judges – 
Powers Generally, of Chapter 2.40, Municipal Court, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of 
the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor 
– Mr. Cook)     
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2022 and ending June 30, 2023 (Postponed from 
June 13, 2022.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6245) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the creation and appointment of a new Reed Avenue 
Corridor Steering Committee  (Postponed from June 13, 2022).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6246)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities to discharge 
uncollectible debts in the amount of $28,499.04 pursuant to Wyo. Stat.§ 16 -4-502.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6247) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Supporting the continuation of the Optional One Percent Sales Tax for 
calendar years 2023 through 2026 and pledging that all revenues derived from this tax will be used 
for projects described in this resolution .  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated  June 27, 2022, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Public comment was made by: Jim Ridgeway and Tim Bradshaw, Cheyenne 
Regional Airport.   Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor 
Collins and Mr. Segrave. (#6248) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving a Special Use Permit for Oil and Gas Support Services for 
Lot 1, Block 1, Plains Industrial Park, 2nd Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6249) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Naming the new Community Park, located on the southwest corner of 
the intersection of E. Pershing Boulevard and Whitney Road, commonly referred as East Cheyenne 
Community Park to be known as Kiwanis Park . Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Public comment was made by: Sam Weinstein, 
Kiwanis Club President.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Segrave and Dr. Rinne.  (#6250) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Providing for partial vacation of the Frontier North Final Plat .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6251) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Community Recreation and Events 
Department to apply for a Cheyenne Community Recreation District Recreation Mill Grant to 
construct a multi-use storage facility at the Cheyenne Junior League Athletic Complex .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6252) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Planning and Development 
Department to accept a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Community -Wide Brownfield 
Assessment Grant to continue development efforts in the West Edge District. Mr. White moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.   Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Comments were made  by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn. 
(#6253) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for federal funding through the Transportation Alternatives Program administered by the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of design and right-of-way acquisition for 
a multi-use path for pedestrians and bicycles from the Sun Valley Open Space into East Cheyenne 
Community Park.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Laybourn. Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Mr. Laybourn.  (#6254) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for federal funding through the Transportation Alternatives Program administered by the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of the construction of two (2) high 
intensity activated cross walk systems located across Western Hills Boulevard at McCormick 
Junior High School and across Pershing Boulevard at McCann Avenue – referred to Finance 
Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield for third party 
administrator services and for group health in surance benefits for City employees .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#7535) 
 
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Granular Insurance Company for Stop Loss 
Insurance for City employees.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7536) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Brian Quinn for City 
Prosecutor Legal Counsel Services .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $46,800.00). (#7537) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement betw een the City of Cheyenne and Warehouse Twenty 
One for the Destination Wayfinding Signage Plan, Phase III Fabrication and Installation Services 
Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax and Greenway Donations) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Industrial and Economic Development Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS) (General 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Parking Lot Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Riverstone Bank for the 
lease of parking spaces at 1716 Thomes Avenue (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
[CA]  Purchase and sale agreement for real property between Retail Properties C, LLC  and the 
City of Cheyenne for the acquisition of land for a future fire station location (General Fund)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Agreement for the purchase, sale and exchange of lands between the City of Cheyenne and 
US 30 BP LLC for the acquisition of land for a future fire station location (Specific Purpose Sales 
Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Reiman Corporation and AVI, 
P.C. for removal and replacement of curb ramps within the right -of-way for the Evers Blvd. 
Reconstruction Project (2019-2022 One Percent Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
          
[CA] Contract Modification  #1 to Contract #7151 between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Wyoming Business Council to extend the construction services completion deadline and 
agreement expiration date for the FE Warren Enhanced Use Lease Project .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7151) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1  to Contract #7461 between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO), and West Edge Collective, LLC, for Public 
Engagement and Web Support Services (MPO Federal Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2  to Contract #7287  between the Cit y of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO), and Benchmark Engineers, PC, for the Walterscheid 
Boulevard Reconstruction Plan (MPO Federal Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
                        
[CA] Contract Modification #2  to Contract #6445 between the City of Cheyenne and AVI 
Professional Corporation for additional design services for the 17 th Street Lighting Project 
(Specific Purpose Sales Tax Overage Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -28-22 for multiple contracts between the City of Cheyenne and 
Solid Rock, 119, Inc. d/b/a Top-Flight Maintenance, Inc., for Janitorial Services for multiple City 
of Cheyenne Facilities (General Fund & Youth Activities Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $112,229.00). (#7538-7541) 
 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-29-22 for twenty-four (24) four (4) yard front end load containers 
and twenty-four (24), eight (8) yard front end load containers for the City of Cheyenne, Sanitation 
Division (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Wastequip 
Mfg. Co. LLC, Statesville, NC, in an amount not to exceed $60,216.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -14-22 for a contract  between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp. for the ADA Ramp Improvements for Evers Boulevard Project (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $82,680.00). 
(#7542) 
                                
 Consideration of Bid #S-16-22 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and JTL Group 
Inc. d/b/a Knife River for the Nationway Overlay Phase 1 Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  
Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $1,688,725.35, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Dr. 
Rinne.  (#7543) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -17-22 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Casper 
Electric, Inc. for the Storey Boulevard and Ridge Road Signalized Intersection Project (2019-2022 
1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an a mount not to exceed 
$479,999.84). (#7544) 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and OpenGov Inc., for the 
purchase of a Software as a Service (SaaS) Solution for budgeting, financial management, 
procurement, citizen services, reporti ng, transparency, and asset management (American Rescue 
Plan Federal Recovery Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$1,471,607.64). (#7545) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -30-22 for as -needed emergency snow control for the City of 
Cheyenne, Public Works Department (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for SAF 
Compliance LLC d/b/a Paris West Restaurant & Bar, 1719 Central Ave., Cheyenne, WY.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Request to expand seating area for consumption relating to City of Cheyenne microbrewery 
liquor license held by Freedom’s Edge Brewing Co., located at 1509 Pioneer Aven ue, Cheyenne, 
WY – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
Reappointments of Anthony Ortiz to the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority; 
Chet Halvorson to the Urban Renewal Authority; and Julie Torres, Danny Glick, and Beth Lance 
to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board.  Mr. Segrave moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
Appointments of Chad Dunlay to the Laramie County Community Juvenile Services Joint 
Powers Board; Darin Westby to the City/County Frontier Park Improvements Joint Powers Board; 
Meghan Connor to the Planning Commission; and Josh Morris to the Cheyenne -Laramie County 
Economic Development Joint Powers Board. Mr.  Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  
Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of 
Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments).  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Dr. Rinne. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 11, 2022, at 6:00 P.M. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for proposed Specific Purpose Sales Tax (6 th Penny) Projects to be completed in the 
Downtown Development District.  Prior to the public hearing, a work session with the City Council 
will be held on July 8, 2022, at 12:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, and via electronic conference 
meeting, to outline the proposed projects. 
 
Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting Cheyenne area charities will be held 
on Saturday, July 30, 2022 beginning at 5:30 p.m. in the Cowboy Bistro, located beside the Rodeo 
Committee Cabin at Frontier Park, Cheyenne, WY, in conjunction with the 2022 Cheyenne 
Frontier Days Rodeo (10% of proceeds go to bona fide charities). 
 
Announcement was made that due to City offices being closed for the Independence Day 
holiday on July 4, 2022, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be 
held in the Municipal Building, Room 1 04, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, W Y, and via 
electronic conference meetings as follows:  Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, July 5, 2022 
at Noon and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday, July 6, 2022 at Noon. 
 
Public comment was made by Jim Ridgeway. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business – 
Mayor Collins, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Segrave, Mr. White.  
  
 Mr. Roybal moved to meet in executive session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16-4-
405(a)(vii), seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open 
to the public and stated there would be no action taken by the govern ing body as a result of the 
executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close 
of the executive session. The following staff members were in attendance:  City Attorney, City 
Clerk, City Treasurer, Chief of St aff and members of Planning and Development . (Clerk’s Note: 
executive session convened at 6:57 p.m.)  
 
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:13 p.m.   
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 6, 2022 