MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-07-11 | CLIP_ID: 857 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 857

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 11, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich (via Zoom), Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson,  Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne  (via Zoom) , Scott Roybal , Tom 
Segrave and Jeff White. Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was 
recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda . Mr. Segrave moved to approve , seconded by Mr. White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing bod y with the exception of Mr. 
Laybourn voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 27, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for proposed Specific Purpose Sales Tax (6 th 
Penny) Projects to be completed in the Downtown Development District.  Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Segrave.  There being no further comments 
or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Unified Development Code Section 1.4.4.f, 
Industrial Services Uses, to create a definition for Data Center and to amend definitions for 
clarification and amending Table 5-1, Zoning District Uses, of Unified Development Code Section 
5.1.4, Districts and Uses, to classify the Permissibility of Data Center .  Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4450) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 9.08.010(B)(3), Disturbance of the 
Peace and Disturbance of Property, Chapter 9.08, Offenses Against Public Peace and Decency, of 
Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of  the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Mr. Cook 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4451) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 2.40.020, Appointment of Judges – 
Powers Generally, of Chapter 2.40, Municipal Court, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of 
the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Johnson and Mr. 
Segrave.     
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, A lcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White  moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. Johnson.     
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 13.12, Sewer 
System, of Title 13, Public Services, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming to 
allow for exceptions to sewage disposal requirements  – referred to Public Services Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for federal funding through the Transportation Alternatives Program administered by the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of the con struction of two (2) high 
intensity activated cross walk systems located across Western Hills Boulevard at McCormick 
Junior High School and across Pershing Boulevard at McCann Avenue.   Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried.  (#6255) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Acknowledging receipt of the East Cheyenne Community Park Master 
Plan Report and Appendices – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Esquibel 
& Mr. Johnson) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Warehouse Twenty 
One for the Destination Wayfinding Signage Plan, Phase III Fabrication and Installation Services 
Project (Specific Purpose Sales Tax and Greenway Donations).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $29,185.00). (#7548) 
 
[CA]  Industrial and Economic Development Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne 
and the Cheyenne/Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS) (General 
Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $75,000.00). (#7549) 
 
[CA]  Parking Lot Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Riverstone Bank for the 
lease of parking spaces at 1716 Thomes Avenue (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $14,416.80). (#7550) 
 
 Purchase and sale agreement for real property between Retail Properties C, LLC and the 
City of Cheyenne for the acquisition of land for a future fire station location (General Fund).  Mr. 
White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $548,082.60, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Mr. 
White moved to amend by substitute dated July 1, 2022, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to 
amend by substitute dated July 1, 2022 failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the governing body.  
Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated July 11, 2022, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins. (#7551) 
 
[CA]  Agreement for the purchase, sale and exchange of lands between the City of Cheyenne and 
US 30 BP LLC for the acquisition of land for a future fire station location (Specific Purpose Sales 
Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7552) 
  
Memorandum of Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Reiman Corporation and AVI, 
P.C. for removal and replacement of curb ramps within the right -of-way for the Evers Blvd. 
Reconstruction Project (2019-2022 One Percent Sales Tax) .  Mr. White moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated July 11, 2022, seconded 
by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  Main motion as amended by 
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. 
Laybourn voting “no”.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  
Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave.  
(#7553) 
 
 Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Woodhouse Roden 
Ames & Brennan, LLC for City Public Defender Services.  Mr. White advised the item was 
reviewed under other items for the agenda at the July 5, 2022 Finance Committee meeting, 
therefore, provisions of Title 2 of the City Code have been met.  Mr. White moved to approve in 
an amount not to exceed $82,400.00, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried. Voting “yes’  - 
all members of the governing body. (#7554) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HDR Engineering, 
Inc. for the Pedestrian Traffic Safety Study and HAWK System Design Project (2019-2022 1% 
Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO) and A.V.I. p.c. for the Powderhouse Road Corridor Plan (MPO 
Federal Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the City of  Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter for Animal 
Shelter Services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
          
 Contract Modification #1  to Contract #7461 between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO), and West Edge Collective, LLC, for Public 
Engagement and Web Support Services (MPO Federal Funds). Mr. White moved to approve in an 
amount not to exceed $5,000.00, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#7461)  
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2  to Contract #7287  between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne 
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO), and Benchmark Engineers, PC, for the Walterscheid 
Boulevard Reconstruction Plan (MPO Federal Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in 
an amount not to exceed $4,800.00). (#7287) 
                        
[CA] Contract Modification #2  to Contract #6445 between the City of Cheyenne and AVI 
Professional Corporation for additional design services for the 17 th Street Lighting Project 
(Specific Purpose Sales Tax Overage Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $11,125.00). (#6445) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -30-22 for as -needed emergency snow control for the City of 
Cheyenne, Public Works Department (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accepted bid from JTL Group Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, in an amount not to 
exceed $300,000.00). 
 
 Request to expand seating area for consumption relating to City of Cheyenne microbrewery 
liquor license held by Freedom’s Edge Brewing Co., located at 1509 Pioneer Avenue, Cheyenne, 
WY.  Mr. White moved to approve contingent upon City Engineering, Building, and Planning & 
Development requirements being met, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
 
Public comment was made by Jim Ridgeway on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held July 25, 2022, at 6:0 0 P.M. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Los 
Aguacates Inc. d/b/a Tres Amigo Family Mexican Restaurant, 1802  Dell Range Blvd., Suite 2, 
Cheyenne, WY.    
 
Public comment was made by Jim Ridgeway under other business. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business – Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook and Mr. Johnson.  
  
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:48 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 20, 2022 