MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-07-25 | CLIP_ID: 859 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 859

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 25, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich,  Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White . 
Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda . Upon request by Mr.  Laybourn and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal, items #12 and #15(a) were removed from the Consent 
Agenda. Mr. Segrave moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 11, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a restaurant liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Los Aguacates Inc. d/b/a Tres Amigos Family Mexican Restaurant, 
1802 Dell Range Blvd., Suite 2, Cheyenne, WY.  There being no comments or input and purpose 
of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the  public hearing and referred the 
application to Finance Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 2.40.020, Appointment of Judges – 
Powers Generally, of Chapter 2.40, Municipal Court, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of 
the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend 
by substitute dated July 19, 2022, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main m otion as amended carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Rinne.  (#4452)  
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic 
Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  (#4453)     
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 13.12, Sewer 
System, of Title 13, Public Services, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming to 
allow for exceptions to sewage disposal requirements .  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Ordinance No. 4411 Defining the Terms and 
Conditions of Employment for sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 
2022-2023 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 1.16, Annexation and Infrastructure 
Improvements, of Title 1, General Provisions, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, to repeal annexation provisions, amend definitions, and modify processes – referred to 
Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Acknowledging receipt of the East Cheyenne Community Park Master 
Plan Report and Appendices .  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of th e governing body.   Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn. (#6256) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in the application for 
and acceptance of federal assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration under the Airport 
Improvement Program to assist in funding costs related to a reimbursable agreement for Precision 
Approach Path Indicator and Localizer Design and Construction – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application to the State Loan and 
Investment Board for a grant through Water and Sewer ARPA Grant Program Funding on behalf 
of the Governing Body for the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of providing critically needed 
flood control at East Dell Range Boulevard and Van Buren Avenue – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HDR Engineering, 
Inc. for the Pedestrian Traffic Safety Study and HAWK System Design Project (2019-2022 1% 
Sales Tax). Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $73,271.00, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn. (#7561) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne M etropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO) and A.V.I. p.c. for the Powderhouse Road Corridor Plan (MPO 
Federal Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $147,694.80). 
(#7562) 
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter for Animal 
Shelter Services (General Fund).   Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$528,000.00, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated July 18, 
2022, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute failed.  Voting “no” – all members 
of the governing body.  Dr. Aldrich moved to postpone to August 8, 2022, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Dr. Rinne. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Civic Center, and I.A.T.S.E. Local 229 for 
production services (Civic Center Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Plan One Architects for architectural 
services for the Cheyenne Solid Waste Transfer Station original building roof replacement (Solid 
Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
                                               
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Patrick Engineering 
Inc., for the Inventory, Condition Assessment, and Data Migration of City Facility a ssets to 
Cartegraph OMS Project (American Rescue Plan Federal Recovery Funds ) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and KLJ Engineering for 
the Environmental Permitting Services for the City of Cheyenne’s industrial facilities (Solid Waste 
Fund & 2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Airport Board for land 
to be used for Community Recreation and Events softball and baseball fields (2019-2022 1% Sales 
Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Airport Board for land 
to be used for Street and Alley for Compost operations (20 19-2022 1% Sales Tax) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Airport Board for land 
to be used for the Weed and Pest Division  (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7255 between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the East 12 th Street Meadow Drive Mill and Overlay Project for the addition of 
storm sewer improvements (1% Specific Purpose Sales Tax) .  Mr. White advised the item was 
reviewed under other items for the agenda at the July 18, 2022 Finance Committee meeting, 
therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Cod e have been met.  Mr. White moved to approve in an 
amount not to exceed $272,462.60, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body.  Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich. (#7255) 
 
[CA] Request to expand seating area for consumption relating to City of Ch eyenne Bar & Grill 
Liquor License held by Paris West Restaurant and Bar, located at 1719 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, 
WY – referred to Finance Committee. 
Reappointments of Miles Henderson and Scott Thomas to the Public Transit Advisory 
Board. Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (Mayoral 
appointments).    
 
Appointments of Richard Leslie to the Public Transit Advisory Board; Shane Paul to the 
Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities; and Amy Hernandez to the Planning Commission.  
Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exceptio n of Mayor Collins who did not vote (Mayoral 
appointments).   
 
Comment was made by Dr. Aldrich on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
No comments were made on the revenue report as presented. 
 
Under other business: 
 
Mr. White noted the motion to approve the purchase and sale agreement between the City 
of Cheyenne and Retail Properties C, LLC passed at the July 11, 2022 City Council meeting.  
Having voted on the prevailing side and pursuant to Chapter 2.04 of City Code, Mr. White moved 
to reconsider the vote taken on the purchase and sale agreement, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Mr. Segrave moved to 
amend by substitute, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Mr. Segrave. (#7551) 
 
 There being  no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:33 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 3, 2022 