MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-08-08 | CLIP_ID: 861 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 861

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 08, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne  (via Zoom), Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and 
Jeff White. Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda Upon request by Dr. Aldrich and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. White and Mr. Johnson, item #16, was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request 
by Mr. White and pursuant to support received by Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Johnson, items #25(f), 
#25(g) and #25(h) were removed from the Consent Agenda. President Roybal moved to approve 
remaining items, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing bod y. [Clerk’s note:  Mr. Cook arrived during discussion prior to vote of Consent 
Agenda items] 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on July 25, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 13.12, Sewer 
System, of Title 13, Public Services, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming to 
allow for exceptions to sewage disposal requirements.  Reporting for the Public Services 
Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. 
Mr. Segrave moved to postpone until August 22, 2022 , seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Ordinance No. 4411 Defining the Terms and 
Conditions of Employment for sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 
2022-2023. Reporting for Finance Committee.  Mr. White moved to approve on seconded reading, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Chapter 1.16, Annexation and Infrastructure 
Improvements, of Title 1, General Provisions, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, to repeal annexation provisions, amend definitions, and modify processes. Mr. Segrave 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by President Roybal. Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
Comment was made by Laramie County Commissioner Gunner Malm.   
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to CB Community Business 
for land located south of and adjacent to W Lincolnway. – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Cook)      
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development - 
Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 
5.6.2 PUD - Planned Unit Development District of the Unified Development Code, amending 
Ordinance No. 3841  by modifying certain standards of the Adopted District, Planned Unit 
Development (PUD), for Pointe Plaza, 6th Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located 
to the northwest of the intersection of Gardenia Dr. and Powderhouse Rd.). – referred to Publi c 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)     
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending and repealing portions of Chapter 2.20, Police 
Department, and repealing Chapter 2.24, Police Pension Board and Fund, of Title 2, 
Administration and Personnel, of the Munici pal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
eliminate obsolete provisions. – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Chapter 2.08, City Officers and Employees 
Generally, and amending and repealing portions of Chapter 2.28, Reserve Police Officers, of Title 
2, Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
update and revise the administration of the Reserve Police Officer s Program and to extend 
administration over part-time Police Officers. – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor 
Dr. Aldrich)   
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 10.52.010, Method of Parking, of Title 
10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to authorize 
back-in angle parking as specified. – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsors – Mr. 
Johnson, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave & Mr. White)          
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, within 
Title 2, Administration and Personnel, and Chapter 12.04, Streets, Sidewalks and Driveways 
Generally, within Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to amend provision governing contract approvals. – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)          
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in the application for 
and acceptance of federal assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration under the Airport 
Improvement Program to assist in funding costs related to a reimbursable agreement for Precision 
Approach Path Ind icator and Localizer Design and Construction . Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6257) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application to the State Loan and 
Investment Board for a grant through Water and Sewer ARPA Grant Program Funding on behalf 
of the Governing Body for the City of Cheyenne for the purpose of providing critically needed 
flood control at East Dell Range Boulevard and Van Buren Avenue . Mr. White moved to adopt, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by changing the amount from $900,000.00 
to $1,900,000.00, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.   Voting “yes” – all members o f the 
governing body. (#6258) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Cheyenne Fox Farm, a replat of a portion of Waterford Square and a portion of Waterford Square, 
2nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of Morrie Avenue, north of 
Fox Farm Road). – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113. – referred to Finance Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. White)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Designating the use of excess 1% Specific Purpose Sales and Use Taxes 
collected from the May 2, 2017 Special Election. – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the Board of Public Utilities’ application to the Wyoming 
State Loan and Investment Board for a grant f rom the Water & Sewer ARPA Grant Program for 
the Water Reclamation Facilities (WRF) Hydraulic Capacity Project (Project) in the amount of 
$2,294,000.00 and authorizing the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the 
application and all related  documents.  (BOPU Sewer Enterprise Fund & SLIB ARPA Water & 
Sewer Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the Board of Public Utilities’ application to the Wyoming 
State Loan and Investment Board for a g rant from the Water & Sewer ARPA Grant Program for 
the North City Zone Improvements Project (Project) in the amount of $3,927,097.00 and 
authorizing the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and all related 
documents.  (Wyoming Water Development Committee Funding & SLIB ARPA Water & Sewer 
Grant) – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. White)    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
Development District boundaries for the DDA/Visit Cheyenne “Halloween Pub Crawl” to be held 
on October 29, 2022. – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson)    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
Development District bound aries for the DDA/Visit Cheyenne “Community Appreciation Day” 
to be held on September 24, 2022. -  referred to Public Services Committee.  ( Sponsor – Mr. 
Johnson)     
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for community efforts to 
remove racially restrictive real estate covenants. – referred to Public Services Committee.  
(Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave & 
Mr. White)               
     
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Animal Shelter for Animal 
Shelter Services (General Fund ).  Mr. White reported that the motion to approve failed in the 
Finance Committee, therefore, there is no recommendation. For the sake of discussion, Mr. White 
moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by substitute dated 
August 8, 2022, seconded by President Roybal.  Dr. Aldrich moved to amend the substitute in 
paragraph 6 (b) by inserting “onsite” prior to the word “housing”.  Motion was withdrawn by Dr. 
Aldrich.  Dr. Aldrich moved to amend the substitute in paragraph 5 (c) by removing “may” and 
replacing with “shall”, seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Motion to amend the substitute carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook and President Roybal.  
Motion to amend by substitute as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body .  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. White.  Comments were made 
by the following members of the public:  Britney Tenant and, Richard Mencer, Cheyenne Animal 
Shelter. (#7566)    
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Civic Center, and I.A.T.S.E. Local 229 for 
production services (Civic Center Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7567) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Plan One Architects for architectural 
services for the Cheyenne Solid Waste Transfer Station original building roof replacement (Solid 
Waste Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $29,190.00).  
(#7568) 
                                               
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Patrick Engineering 
Inc., for the Inventory, Condition Assessment, and Data Migration of City Facility assets to 
Cartegraph OMS Project (American Rescue Plan Federal Recovery Funds).  Mr. White moved to 
approve in an amount not to exceed $524,234.00 seconded by Mr. Segrave Mr. White moved  to 
amend by substitute dated August 2, 2022, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   Mr. White made a friendly amendment to 
correct the dollar amount from $524,234.00 to $175,000.00 , seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Main 
motion, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7569)  
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and KLJ Engineering for 
the Environmental Permitting Services for the City of Cheyenne’s industrial facilities (Solid Waste 
Fund & 2019-2022 1% Sales Tax) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $45,400.00). (#7570) 
 
 Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Airport Board for land 
to be used for Community Recreation and Events softball and baseball fields (2019-2022 1% Sales 
Tax). Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $96,602.00, seconded by President 
Roybal. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was made 
by the following members of the public:  Mr. Ridgeway.  (#7571) 
 
 Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Airport Board for land 
to be used for Street and  Alley for compost operations (20 19-2022 1% Sales Tax)  Mr. White 
moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $135,237.00, seconded by President Roybal.  Motion 
was carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7572) 
 
 Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Airport Board for land 
to be used for the Weed and Pest Division (2019-2022 1% Sales Tax). Mr. White moved to approve 
in an amount not to exceed $15,457.00, seconded by President Roybal. Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7573) 
 
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the City of Cheyenne and Cal Kunkel of 
Cheyenne Fox Farm, LLC, to authorize filing of platting application(s) for City -owned lands for 
the purposes of vacating and replating Waterford Square Second Filing. (PUBLIC SERVICES 
COMMITTEE) Mr. Segrave reported this item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at 
the August 2, 20 22 Public Services Committee, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City code have 
been met.  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn. (#7574)    
 
[CA]  Minimum Revenue Guaranteed Payment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
the Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team (CRAFT).  (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax 
Fund) - referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 [CA]  Memorandum of Understanding between the Ci ty of Cheyenne, Laramie County, and the 
Cheyenne Airport Board regarding the transfer of 2021 6 th Penny Funds.  (1% Specific Purpose 
Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Memorandum of Understanding  between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
School District Number 1 for the School Resource Officers (SRO) Program.  (Revenue to City) – 
referred to Finance Committee.     
 
[CA] Contract Modification # 2 to Contract # 7427 between the City of Cheyenne and 
Russell+Mills Studios Inc., for the East Cheyenne Community Park Master Site Development 
Plan.  (Specific Purpose Sales Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -1-23 for a contract between the City of Cheyenne and Synergy 
Construction LLC for the Happy Jack Landfill Electrical Improvements Project.  (Solid Waste 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-18-22 for a contract bet ween the City of Cheyenne and Johnson 
Sand & Gravel for the Landfill Tent Structure Demolition Project.  (Solid Waste Fund) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to  Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Farrwest Environmental 
Supply, Inc. for a XploIR handheld gas identification system handheld FT-IR spectrometer.  (2020 
State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) Grant) – referred to Finance Committee.    
  
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Los Aguacates 
Inc. d/b/a Tres Amigos Family Mexican Restaurant, 1802 Dell Range Blvd., Suite 2, Cheyenne, 
WY.   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Request to expand seating area for consumption relating to City of Cheyenne Bar & Grill 
Liquor License held by Paris West Restaurant and Bar, located at 1719 Central Avenue, Cheyenne, 
WY.  Mr. White moved to approve contingent upon City Engineering, Building, and Planning and 
Development requirements being met, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
 
Public comment was made by Mr. Ridgeway on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business – Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Johnson and Mr. White.    
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:01 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 17, 2022 