MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-09-12 | CLIP_ID: 865 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 865

  
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
September 12, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson,  Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal , Tom Segrave  and Jeff White .  Absent: Pete 
Laybourn.  Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda . Mr. Roybal moved to approve , seconded by Mr. White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 22, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to CB Community Business 
for land located south of and adjacent to W Lincolnway.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, 
Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4457) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development - 
Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan, Section 5.1.3 Official Zoning Map, and Section 
5.6.2 PUD - Planned Unit Development District of the Unified Development Code, amending 
Ordinance No. 3841  by modifying certain standards of the Adopted District, Planned Unit 
Development (PUD), for Pointe Plaza, 6th Filing, Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located 
to the northwest of the intersection of Gardenia Dr. and Powderhouse Rd.).   Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by 
substitute dated September 6, 2022 , seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended by 
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception 
of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Public comment was made by: Brad Emmons, AVI, Brenda Cowley 
and Eleanor Grinnell.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  
Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook and Mr. Segrave. (#4458)   
 
 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending and repealing portions of Chapter 2.20, Police 
Department, and repealing Chapter 2.24, Police Pension Board and Fund, of T itle 2, 
Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
eliminate obsolete provisions.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with 
the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no” .  Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Mr. Johnson. (#4459)  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapter 2.08, City Officers and Employees 
Generally, and amending and repealing portions of Chapter 2.28, Reserve Police Officers, of Title 
2, Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
update and revise the administration of the Reserve Police Officers P rogram and to extend 
administration over part -time Police Officers .  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. (#4460)  
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 10.52.010, Method of Parking, of 
Title 10, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
authorize back -in angle parking as specified.   Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final  
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. (#4461) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, within 
Title 2, Administration and Personnel, and Chapter 12.04, Streets, Sid ewalks and Driveways 
Generally, within Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to amend provision governing contract approvals.  Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Mr. Johnson. (#4462)   
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from HR High -Density Residential to CB 
Community Business for land located north of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range 
Boulevard and Moran Avenue.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present with the 
exception of Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Public comment was made by: Michael 
White, Cushing Terrell, on behalf of L es Schwab Tires.  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. Cook.  
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classif ication from MR Medium -Density Residential to NR -2 
Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density for land located south of 12 th Street, east of Logan 
Avenue.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 2.32.020, Department Personnel, of 
Chapter 2.32, Fire Department, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, to amend provision 
governing the appointment of Fire Department Personnel.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. 
  
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 10.12.160, Authority to Impound 
Illegally Parked Vehicles, and Section 10.12.170, Immobilization, of Title 10, Vehicles and 
Traffic, modifying time period for vehicle impoundment after immobilization – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave). 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis to CB 
Community Business for land north of Pershing Boulevard, east of College Drive – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from Swan Ranch PUD Planned Unit Development 
(Ordinance #3989) to CB Community Business for land located north of High Plains Road, west 
of I-25 – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Comea 
Subdivision, 2 nd Filing, a replat of portions of Lots 6 thru 11, and Lots 12 thru 17, Block 404, 
Original City Plat, south of Lincoln Way, and north of the Union Pacific Railroad Right of Way, 
and Lot 1, Block 1, Comea Subdivision, being situated in a portion of the north east ¼ of Section 
1, Township 13 North, Range 67 West of the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located south of and adjacent to W Lincolnway) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6267) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport in the application for and 
acceptance of federal assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration under the Airport 
Improvement Program to assist in funding costs related to reconstruction of runway 9/27 at 
Cheyenne Regional Airport.  Mr. White advised the item was heard under other items for the 
agenda at the September 6, 2022 Finance Committee, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code 
had been met.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body  present.  Public comment was made by: Tim Bradshaw, 
Director of Aviation, Cheyenne Regional Airport.  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Mr. Johnson. (#6268)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113 – referred to Finance Committee.   
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
             
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body to conduct a review of 
Downtown Parking Enforcement – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsors – Mr. Cook, 
Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal & Mr. White) 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the will of the Governing Body directing the Mayor to hire a 
Special Projects Manager to assist the City of Cheyenne in managing and coordinating certain 6 th 
Penny Tax Projects and other City project priorities – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – 
Mr. Segrave) 
              
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the will of the Governing Body to prioritize and adequately 
fund specified Downtown 6 th Penny Tax Maintenance and Improvement Projects – referred to 
Finance Committee.  ( Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave & Mr. 
White) 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Lake 
Minnehaha III, a replat of Lots 1 and 1½, Block 18, resubdivision of Lake Minnehaha, City of 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the intersection of 12 th Street and 
Carbon Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
                 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Extending the City approval of an exception to the ‘201 Agreement’ for 
the owner of the property located at 4120 and 4121 West 5th Street to allow the continuation of on-
site septic systems located within the City and in unincorporated Laramie County – referred to 
Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
                 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the ‘201 Agr eement’ for the owner of the 
property located at 516 Pontillo Drive to allow to allow the creation of a new on-site septic system 
located within Laramie County – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA]  Preliminary Plat for Harmony Valley, 3rd Filing, a replat of Lot 1, Block 1, Interior Heights 
4th Filing; and Lot 1 & Lot 2, Block 10, Harmony Valley 1 st Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located between Allison Road and College Drive, west of Walterscheid 
Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA]  Owner and Design -Builder Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and FCI 
Constructors of Wyoming, LLC for finishing the Cheyenne Public Safety Center (2012 1% 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $150,000.00). (#7590) 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and StreamLink Software Inc. d/b/a AmpliFund 
for a multi-year contract for grant management software  (General Fund & American Rescue Plan 
Federal Recovery funds) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$67,500.00). (#7591) 
 
[CA]  Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and 
Laramie County to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College 
and for an area of Laramie County immediately adjacent to the City (Revenue to the City).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7592) 
 
[CA]  Grant agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Federal Transit Administration to 
fund Transit operations (ARP 5307 Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7593) 
  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Community Recreation & Events, and the 
Officials for Fun Club to officiate the 2022-2023 youth and adult volleyball programs (Recreation 
Programs Fund).  Mr. White advised there was no recommendation from the Finance Committee. 
Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Vo ting “yes”  – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Johnson voting 
“no”.  Public comment was made by: Debb y Followell, Officials for Fun Club.  Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins, Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel 
and Mr. Johnson. (#7594) 
                                               
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie 
County for juvenile probation services (Revenue to the City) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7595) 
 
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County 
for on-call crisis center services (Revenue to the City).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#7596) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire & Rescue 
Department, and TimeClockPlus (TCP), of San Angelo, Texas, for scheduling software (General 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and the Wyoming 
Department of Transportation for Impaired Driving High Visibility Overtime Enforcement 
(Highway Safety Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, and the Wyoming 
Department of Transportation for Occupant Protection High Visibility Overtime Enforcement 
(Highway Safety Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide 
supportive senior services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Volunteers of American Northern Rockies, 
Alcohol Receiving Center, to provide alcohol and drug detoxication services (General Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor to provide a safe and secure 
environment to families who have been affected by abuse (General Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Access License Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Retail Properties C, LLC 
for ingress and egress access purposes (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7545 between the City of Cheyenne and OpenGov 
Inc., for Software as a Service (SaaS) Solution for budgeting, financial management, procurement, 
citizen services, reporting, transparency, and asset management (American Rescue Plan Federal 
Recovery funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $85,131.00). 
(#7545) 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7157 between the City of Cheyenne and United 
Way of Laramie County to provide services to various community programs to allocate remaining 
portion of 10% “Excess Monies” to Hum an Services pursuant to Resolution #5607 (2015 -2018 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) .  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$98,762.00, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#7157) 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7434 between the City of Cheyenne and United 
Way of Laramie County to provide services to various community programs to allocate funds 
pursuant to Resolution #5933 (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Mr. White advised there 
was no recommendation from the Finance Committee. Mr. White moved to approve in an amount 
not to exceed $250,000.00, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Public comment 
was made by: Vernon Dobelmann, Executive Director of United Way.  Comments were made by 
the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins, Dr. Aldrich, Cook, Mr. Esquibel 
and Mr. Johnson. (#7434) 
 
 Contract Modification #2 to Contract #7199 between the Wyoming Department of Family 
Services and the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, for kinship advocacy services 
for displaced, at-risk youth extending the contract term to September 20, 2023.  Mr. White advised 
the item was heard under items for the agenda at the September 6, 2022 Finance Committee 
meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.  Mr. White moved to approve, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Cook. 
(#7199) 
 
[CA] Amendment #2 to  Contract #5939 between the City of Cheyenne and The Lamar 
Companies for billboard leases (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7488 between the City of Cheyenne and MHP, LLP 
to provide financial and compliance auditing services for the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne 
Board of Public Utilities for fiscal year ending June 30, 2022 (American Rescue Plan Funds) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7504  between the City of Cheyenne and FCI 
Constructors of Wyoming LLC for the Emergency Response Facilities Guaranteed Maximum 
Price (GMP) (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund and 2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax 
Fund Overages) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Econolite, for four (4) traffic 
controller cabinets for the City of Cheyenne Traffic Division (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Appointments of Annalycia  Aguirres, William Barrington, Julianne Beech, Ty Bronder, 
Katelyn Cobb, Kaedyn Patrick Austin Davenport, Nora Fraley, Caitlyn Ganskow, Heidi Glaze, 
Nevaeh Green, Kristen Huffman, Madalyn Huffman, Andrew Lance, Molly Madsen and Elizabeth 
Stump to the 2022 -2023 Mayor’s Youth Council.  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by 
Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the 
exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments).  Comments were made by 
the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins. 
  
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made  that a Calcutta, benefitting the Wyoming Breast Ca ncer 
Initiative, will be held Friday, September 30 – Sunday, October 2, 2022, beginning at 5:00 p.m. 
each night at Peppermill Bar, 1618 Stillwater Ave., Cheyenne, Wyoming.   
 
Public comment was made by Jim Ridgeway under other business. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business – Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Johnson and Mr. White.  
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:13 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 21, 2022 