MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-10-24 | CLIP_ID: 870 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 870

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
October 24, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White .  
Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda . Mr. Roybal moved to approve , seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 10, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 9.08.020, Annoying, Obscene or 
Threatening Telephone Calls, of Chapter 9.08, Offenses Against Public Peace and Decency, of 
Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
modifying the elements of the offense of annoying, obscene or threatening telephone calls . 
Reporting for Finance Committee , Mr. White moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing bod y.  
(#4470) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating Section 9.04.070, Interference with Emergency 
Calls; Interference with Emergency Reporting System, of Chapter 9.04, Offenses by or Against 
Public Officers and Government, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute 
dated October 11, 2022, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to amend by substitut e carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Mayor Collins. 
  
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 2.08.010, Appointment and Term -
Removal-Vacancy, of Chapter 2.08, City Officers and Employees Generally, of Title 2, 
Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
eliminate an obsolete position and update a provision governing appointment of Judges.  Mr. Cook 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of C heyenne, Wyoming, land 
located between Clear Creek Parkway and South Greeley Highway, south of College Drive .  Mr. 
Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Public comment was made by: Brad Emmons, AVI, 
agent for the applicant and Betsey Hale, CEO of Cheyenne LEADS.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City  of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County CB Community Business and County 
A-2 Agricultural to CB Community Business, AG Agricultural, and LI Light Industrial for land 
located between Clear Creek Parkway and South Greeley Highway, south o f College Drive.  Mr. 
Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Public comment was made by: Brad Emmons, AVI, 
agent for the applicant. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 5.12.110, Open Container -Sales and 
Consumption-Exceptions, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, 
Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
amending provisions governing the possession of alcoholic liquor or malt beverages in an open 
container as specified – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying Planning Commission action amending the Cheyenne Area 
Future Land Use & Transportation Map of Connect 2045:  Update to the Master Transportation 
and Future Land Use Plan of PlanCheyenne, amending the land use category and transportation 
network for property generally located between I-25 and South Greeley Highway, south of College 
Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6277)              
                 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the conversion of a portion of Dutcher Ball Fields, located at 
4200 Converse Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming from Perpetual Public Outdoor Recreation Use and 
committing to purchase and encumber three replacement properties to be deed restricted for 
Perpetual Public Outdoor Recreation Use pursuant to the requirements set forth in the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6278) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the formation of the Wise Water Action Committee to 
develop a water conservation roadmap specific to Cheyenne and supported by City decision 
makers and community stakeholders.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mr. 
Cook moved to postpone to November 14, 2022, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to postpone 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Rinne. 
 
RESOLUTION – Approving Water and Sanitary Sewer Services, by Outside User Water 
and Sanitary Sewer Services Agreement, for Wyoming King Gold Mining Company, Inc., for all 
Section 36, T14N., R70W of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming.  Mr. White advised there 
was no recommendation from Finance Committee.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated October 19, 2022, seconded by Mr.  
Roybal.  Motion to a mend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no” .  Main motion as adopted carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing bod y with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.   
Public comment was made by: Larry Wolf and Pat Crank.  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. 
Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave. (#6279) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Frontier 
Gardens 4th Filing, a replat of all of Lots 3 and 4, Block 17 and all of Lots 1 and 2, Block 16 and 
all of Moran Avenue adjacent thereto, Frontier Gardens 3 rd Filing, City of Cheyen ne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located north of the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard and Moran Avenue).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda carried. (#6280) 
 
   RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to execute all necessary documents related to 
the transfer, purchase and sale of a specified portion of the property located at 1720 Cleveland 
Avenue.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Esquibel.  Mr. White moved to amend by 
substitute dated October 17, 2022, seconded by Mr.  Esquibel.  Motion to amend by substitute 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins. (#6281) 
  
 RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
Development District Boundaries for “A Taste of Cheyenne” to be held on November 12, 2022.   
Mr. Cook advised the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the October 18, 2022 
Public Services Committee, therefore, provisions of Title 2 have been met.  Mr. Cook moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body.  Public comment was made by:  Danica Rozinsky, DDA.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Mr. Johnson. (#6282) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
Development District Boundaries for post-Thanksgiving shopping and the Christmas Parade to be 
held November 25 & 26, 2022 – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
Development District Boundaries for the “Santa 0.5K” to be held on December 3, 2022 – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
Development District Boundaries for New Year’s Eve on December 31, 2022 – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for High 
Plains Business Park, a plat of a portion of Sections 23 and 24, Township 13 North, Range 67 
West, and Section 19, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6 th P.M., Laramie  County, 
Wyoming (located between I -25 and South Greeley Highway, south of College Drive – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
                 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Water 
Development Commission for grant funding for the Borie Wellfield Expansion Project in the 
amount of $7,035,000.00 and authorizing the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute 
the application and all related documents – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)   
   
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the Kiwanis (East) Park Greenway Underpass and Drainage 
Plan at the Union Pacific Railroad – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the East Pershing Boulevard Plan – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the Walterscheid Boulevard Reconstruction Plan – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)   
   
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and the Laramie 
County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for Community Services/Case 
Management Services provided to the Municipal Court as sentencing alternatives for juveniles 
(Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7624) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of Transportation 
(WYDOT) for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Grant to assist in providing a local match 
for operating funds for the Transit Program for Fiscal Year 202 3 (Revenue to the City ).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7625) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI P.C., for the 
design of the Powderhouse Road and Carlson Street Intersection Project (2018-2022 Optional 1% 
Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $189,932.50). 
(#7626) 
                                  
[CA] Professional Services  Agreement between  the City of Cheyenne and Roadway Asset 
Services LLC., for the Pavement Condition Survey and Rehabilitation Strategy Project (2018-2022 
Optional 1% Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$149,503.00). (#7627) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Paladin Technologies 
Inc., for the Camera System and NVR System upgrades at the Cheyenne Public Safety Center 
(CPSC) (2012 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund)  – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
Community College (LCCC) to provide Commercial Driver’s License (CDL) “Your Truck” 
Training to City employees (Fleet Internal Service Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
                                  
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Terracon consulting 
engineers proposal for materials testing and special inspection services for new Emergency 
Response Facilities located at Converse Avenue, Countryside Avenue, and Hansen Street (3 
locations) (2021 Specific Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.        
 
 Appointment of Bradley M. Bowen as Assistant City Treasurer (Board of Public Utilities).  
Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (Mayoral 
appointment).  City Clerk Kris Jones administered the oath of office to Mr. Bowen. 
 
Public comment was made by Jim Ridgeway on the Voucher Report  as presented.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Coll ins and Mr. 
Johnson.  
 
Comment was made Dr. Aldrich on the Revenue Report as presented.  
 
Public comment was made by Jim Ridgeway and Seth Lloyd under other business. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business : Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Collins, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Johnson.  
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:03 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,   
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  November 2, 2022 