MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-11-14 | CLIP_ID: 872 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 872

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
November 14, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: COUNCIL 
PRESIDENT – Scott Roybal, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Tom Segrave and Jeff White. Absent: 
Mayor Patrick Collins.  Also present: Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance 
was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Cook and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White, item #18 was removed from the Consent Agenda.   Upon request 
by Mr. Laybourn and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Johnson, item #20 was 
removed from the Consent Agenda.   Mr. Johnson moved to approve remaining items, seconded 
by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 24, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of The Governing Body on October 21, 2022.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating Section 9.04.070, Interference with Emergency 
Calls; Interference with Emergency Reporting System, of Chapter 9.04, Offenses by or Against 
Public Officers and Government, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present.  Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne. (#4471) 
  
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 2.08.010, Appointment and Term -
Removal-Vacancy, of Chapter 2.08, City Officers and Employees Generally, of Title 2, 
Administration and Pers onnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
eliminate an obsolete position and update a provision governing appointment of Judges.  Mr. Cook 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Motion carried.  Votin g 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4472) 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located between Clear Creek Parkway and South Greeley Highway, south of College Drive .  Mr. 
Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#4473) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County CB Community Business and County 
A-2 Agricultural to CB Community Business, AG Agricultural, and LI Light Industrial for land 
located between Clear Creek Parkway and South Greeley Highway, south of College Drive .  Mr. 
Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4474)   
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 5.12.110, Open Container-Sales and 
Consumption-Exceptions, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, 
Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
amending provisions governing the possession of alcoholic liquor or malt beverages in an open 
container as specified.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  
Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated November 8, 2022, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion 
to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present  with 
the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no” .  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. 
Laybourn and Mr. Segrave voting “no” .  Public comment was made by: Brian Bau, Albany 
Restaurant, Bar and Liquor Store, Domenic Bravo, President and CEO of Visit Cheyenne, Danica 
Mrozinsky, WyoMusic and Wendy Volk.  Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave  
and Mr. White.  
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from P Public to CB Community Business for land 
located south of Missile Drive, east of I-25 – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor Mr. 
Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE – 1st READING Amending Ordinance #4447, approving and establishing 
revised water and sewer rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service 
charges and penalties, and septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board 
of Public Utilities by replacing Board of Public Utilities Resolution No. 2022 -03 in Section 9  -- 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the formation of the Wise Water Action Committee to 
develop a water conservation roadmap specific to Cheyenne and supported by City decision 
makers and community stakeholders (postponed from October 24, 2022).  Mr. Cook advised there 
was no recommendation from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt .  Mot ion 
died due to lack of a second. 
 
 
 RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
Development District Boundaries for post-Thanksgiving shopping and the Christmas Parade to be 
held November 25 & 26, 2022 .  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present  with the exception of Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  Public comment was made by: Domenic Bravo, President 
and CEO of Visit Cheyenn e.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave.  (#6283)   
 
 RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
Development District Boundaries for the “Santa 0.5K” to be held on December 3, 2022.  Mr. Cook 
advised there was no recommendation from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Cook moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  Public comment 
was made by: Domenic Bravo, President and CEO of Visit Cheyenne, Anthony Ortiz, Danica 
Mrozinsky, WyoMusic and Wendy Volk. Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Mr. Johnson and Mr. Segrave. (#6284)   
 
 RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
Development District Boundaries for New Year’s Eve on  December 31, 2022. Mr. Cook moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.   Public comment was made by: 
Wendy Volk.  Comments were made by t he following members of the governing body: Mr. 
Laybourn and Mr. Segrave.  (#6285)   
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for High 
Plains Business Park, a plat of a portion of Sections 23 and 24, Township 13 North, Range 67 
West, and Section 19, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6 th P.M., Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located between I-25 and South Greeley Highway, south of College Drive).  Mr. Cook 
moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Vot ing “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Rinne. (#6286)   
                
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Water 
Development Commission for grant funding for the Borie Wellfield Expansion Project in the 
amount of $7,035,000.00 and authorizing the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to ex ecute 
the application and all related documents .  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White advised 
there was no recommendation from Finance Committee.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by 
Mr. Laybourn .  Motion failed.  Voting “ no” – all members of the governing body present.   
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn.  
   
 RESOLUTION – Certifying the Kiwanis (East) Park Greenway Underpass and Drainage 
Plan at the Union Pacific Railroad.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Public comment was made 
by: Gene McDonald.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. (#6287) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the East Pershing Boulevard Plan .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried.  (#6288) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the Walterscheid Boulevard Reconstruction Plan .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6289) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION -- Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts pursuant 
to Wyo Stat. §16-4-502 – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Paladin Technologies 
Inc., for the Camera System and NVR System upgrades at the Cheyenne Public Safety Center 
(CPSC) (2012 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund).  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount 
not to exceed $53,993.81, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present  with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no” .  Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Cook and Mr. Johnson. (#7632)   
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
Community College (LCCC) to provide Commercial Driver’s License (CDL) “Your Truck” 
Training to City employees (Fleet Internal Service Fund).  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated November 14, 2022, seconded 
by Mr . Segrave .  Motion  to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no” .  Main motion to amend 
by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception 
of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.   Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich. (#7633) 
                                  
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Terracon  Consulting 
Engineers for materials testing and specia l inspection services for new Emergency Response 
Facilities located at Converse Avenue, Countryside Avenue, and Hansen Street (3 locations) (2021 
Specific Option Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$121,980.00). (#7634) 
 
 Cooperative agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Department of 
Transportation (WYDOT) for 2023 epoxy pavement marking. (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund).  Mr. White advised the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the November 
7, 2022 Finance Committee, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.  Mr. Cook 
moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $139,611.00, seconded b y Mr. Johnson.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#7635) 
 
[CA] 2022-2023 Collective Labor Agreement re-negotiation between the City of Cheyenne and 
Cheyenne Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Associat ion of Firefighters – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for 
financial reimbursement to the City for construction of the Laramie County Community 
College/Sweetgrass Underpass (2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Sun Valley Estates, 
LLC, outlining responsibilities in pursuit of a land exchange of approximately 15,375 square feet 
to facilitate better alignment of the public Greenway system and better site layout for private multi-
family development -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Subgrantee Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for the FY 2022 
Byrne Justice Assistance Grant for community -oriented policing overtime, benefits and patrol 
accessories (JAG 2022 Grant) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and The SpyGlass Group, LLC, for “SpyCare”, 
a cloud software solution, to foster Information Technology (IT) management concerning 
communications subscriptions, contract tracking and auditing  (General Fund)  -- referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Granite Peak 
Environmental for Qualified Environmental Professional Services for an USEPA Brownfield 
Assessment Grant (U.S Environmental Protection Agency Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Hellas Construction, 
Inc. for the South Lions Park Pickleball Court Design and Installation Services Project  (Lottery 
Proceeds Capital Expenditures & Development Impact Fees/Park Improvements) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -4-23 for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Aztec 
Construction Co., Inc., for the Cheyenne Fire & Rescue Department-Site 1 Utility Main Extensions 
Project (American Rescue Plan Federal Recovery Funds (ARPA)) -- referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -7-23 for one (1) new Reel Grinder and one (1) new Bedknife 
Grinder for the City of Cheyenne Golf Division  (Golf Faciliti es Fund) -- referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Granicus, LLC, for a three 
(3) year software agreement to utilize the Peak Agenda Management Software and Public Records 
Request Software for the City of Cheyenne City Clerk’s Office  (American Rescue Plan Federal 
Recovery Funds (ARPA)) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Vogel Traffic Services d/b/a 
EZ-Liner, for the refurbishment of an existing 2013 EZ -Liner Striping truck for the City of 
Cheyenne Traffic Division (2019 -2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 28, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute 
§15-1-402 exist for about 0.36 acres of land at 4612 Van Buren Avenue, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located west of Van Buren Avenue, north of Dell Range Boulevard). 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held November 28, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Ch ambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s 
Office for Andiamo 307 LLC d/b/a Andiamo 307, 1808 O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, WY (lice nse 
currently held by Poor Richard’s d/b/a Poor Richard’s).        
 
Public comment was made by John Taylor and Madeline Martinez under other business. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business : Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White.  
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:02 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kylie Soden,   
Deputy City Clerk, CMC 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  November 23, 2022  
   