MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-11-28 | CLIP_ID: 875 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 875

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
November 28, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Richard Johnson, 
Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne,  Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White. Absent:  Ken 
Esquibel. Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the de signation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 14, 2022.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a Public Hearing  to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for about 0.36 acres of land at 4612 Van 
Buren Avenue, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of Van Buren Avenue, north of Dell 
Range Boulevard).  Purpose of the hearing having been  met, Mayor Collins closed the public 
hearing.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a Public Hearing for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Andiamo 307 LLC d/b/a Andiamo 307, 1808 
O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by Poor Richard’s d/b/a Poor Richard’s).   
Purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the 
application to Finance Committee.  Public comment was made by: Piper Rauzi.  Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 5.12.110, Open Container -Sales and 
Consumption-Exceptions, of Chapter 5.12, Alcoholic Liquor and Malt Beverages, of Title 5, 
Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
amending provisions governing the possession of alcoholic liquor or ma lt beverages in an open 
container as specified.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Dr. Rinne advised there was no 
recommendation from the committee.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend by substitute dated November 22, 2022, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. 
Segrave voting “no”.  Public comment was made by: Amy Spieker, Director of Community Health, 
Cheyenne Regional Medical Center.   Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave. (#4475) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from P Public to CB Community Business for land 
located south of Missile Drive, east of I -25.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. Public comment was made by: Shane Hansen, Steil Surveying Services. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING Amending Ordinance #4447, approving and establishing 
revised water and sewer rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service 
charges and penalties, and septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board 
of Public Utilities by replacing Board of Public Utilities Resolution No. 2022 -03 in Section 9 .  
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located west of Van Buren Avenue, north of Dell Range Boulevard – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Of ficial Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultural Residential to NR -3 
Neighborhood Residential - High Density for land located west of Van Buren Avenue, north of 
Dell Range Boulevard – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to NR -3 Neighborhood 
Residential - High Density for land located east of Warren Avenue, south of 4 th Street -- referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION -- Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts pursuant 
to Wyo Stat. §16-4-502.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6290) 
 
[CA] 2022-2023 Collective Labor Agreement re-negotiation between the City of Cheyenne and 
Cheyenne Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7640) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for 
financial reimbursement to the City for construction of the Laramie County Community 
College/Sweetgrass Underpass (2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $407,777.80). (#7641) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the Cit y of Cheyenne and Sun Valley Estates, 
LLC, outlining responsibilities in pursuit of a land exchange of approximately 15,375 square feet 
to facilitate better alignment of the public Greenway system and better site layout for private multi-
family development.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with exception of Mr. Johnson voting 
“no”.   Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Rinne. (#7642) 
 
 Subgrantee Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for the FY 2022 
Byrne Justice Assistance Grant for community -oriented policing overtime, benefits  and patrol 
accessories (JAG 2022 Grant) .  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$54,443.00, seconded by Dr. Aldrich .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Mr. Johnson. (#7643) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and The SpyGlass Group, LLC, for “SpyCare”, 
a cloud software solution, to foster Information Technology (IT) management c oncerning 
communications subscriptions, contract tracking and auditing  (General Fund) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $29,955.00). (#7644) 
 
 Professional Services  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Granite Peak 
Environmental for Qualified Environmental Professional Services for an USEPA Brownfield 
Assessment Grant (U.S Environmental Protection Agency Grant) .  Mr. White advised there was 
no recommendation from Finance Committee. Mr. White moved to approve in an amoun t not to 
exceed $488,760.00, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present with exception of Mr. Laybourn voting no. Public comment was made 
by: Christina Hiegel, Ayres Associates.  Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White. (#7645) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Hellas Construction, 
Inc. for the South Lions Park Pickleball Cour t Design and Installation Services Project (Lottery 
Proceeds Capital Expenditures & Development Impact Fees/Park Improvements) .  Mr. White 
moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $552,275.00, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Mr. White 
moved to amend by substi tute dated November 20, 2022, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Motion to 
amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main 
motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and 
Mr. Cook. (#7646) 
 
 [CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Summit Engineering 
for design and bidding services for the US-30 Greenway Underpass Project (2017 Specific Purpose 
Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
                                         
[CA] Grant award agreement with the State of Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a grant 
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), FEMA, Grant Programs Directorate, 
SHSP Grant Fiscal Year 2022 in the amount of $138,078.00 for the Cheyenne Regional Response 
Team #7 (DHS Grant Code: EMW-2022-SS-00077) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Grant award agreement with the State of Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a grant 
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), FEMA, Grant Programs Directorate,  
 
 
SHSP Grant Fiscal Year 2022 in the amount of $110,000.00 for the purchase and installation of 
two permanent generators (DHS Grant Code: EMW -2022-SS-00077) – referred to Finance 
Committee.                 
 
 [CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the Cheyenne Police Department, Cheyenne 
Regional Medical Center, Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and Dr. Clair White of the 
University of Wyoming regarding the establishment and implementation of a Community -Based 
Law Enforce ment and Behavioral Health Co -Response to behavioral health emergency calls 
within Laramie County (Wyoming Department of Health Grant) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Business Associate Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Regional Medical 
Center and Dr. Clair White for the Behavioral Health Co-Response Project (Wyoming Department 
of Health Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
                                      
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and the Downtown Development Authority (DDA) 
granting a subaward to be used for a Small Business Rental Assistance Program for businesses in 
the Historic Downtown District experiencing hardship due to COVID (American Rescue Plan 
Federal Recovery Funds (ARPA)) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -4-23 for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Aztec 
Construction Co., Inc., for the Cheyenne Fire & Rescue Department-Site 1 Utility Main Extensions 
Project (American Rescue Plan Federal Recovery Funds (ARPA)).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $663,681.00). (#7647) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -7-23 for one (1) new Reel Grinder and one (1) new Bedknife 
Grinder for the City of Cheyenne Golf Division  (Golf Facilities Fund) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $94,370.10). 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Granicus, LLC, for a three 
(3) year software agreement to utilize the Peak Agenda Management Software and Public Records 
Request Software for the City of Cheyenne City Clerk’s Office  (American Rescue Plan Federal 
Recovery Funds (ARPA)) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$63,450.00). (#7648) 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Vogel Traffic Services d/b/a 
EZ-Liner, for the refurbishment of an existing 2013 EZ -Liner Striping truck for the City of 
Cheyenne Traffic Division (2019 -2022 Op tional 1% Sales Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $157,000.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-8-23 for ammunition for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.         
                                      
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -9-23 for one (1) new Utility Work Machine for the City of 
Cheyenne Weed & Pest Division (Weed & Pest Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.       
 
Appointment of Dave Teubner to the Downtown Development Authority (DDA) Board.   
Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote 
(Mayoral appointment)     
 
Comment was made by the following members of the governing body on the Voucher 
Report as presented: Mr. Laybourn. 
 
No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 12, 2022  at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s 
Office for Railspur, LLC d/b/a Railspur, 707 W. Li ncolnway, Cheyenne, WY (license currently 
held by Get Bent, LLC)         
 
Public comment was made by Chad Willett under other business. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business : Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White.  
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:03 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,    
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 3, 2022  
   