MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-12-12 | CLIP_ID: 876 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 876

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 12, 2022 
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White. Absent: Pete 
Laybourn.  Also present: Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Mayor Collins announced that agenda item #28(h), Memorandum of Understanding 
between the City of Cheyenne and Dozzer, LLC, to authorize filing of platting application(s) for 
City-owned lands for the purpose of access and future development, would be remove d from the 
agenda at the request of staff and the developer. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda.  Upon request by Mr. White and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Cook, item #24(e) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Segrave 
moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 28, 2022.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a Public Hearing for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Railspur, LLC d/b/a Railspur, 707 W. 
Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by Get Bent, LLC) .  Purpose of the hearing 
having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance 
Committee.  Public comment was made by:  Chad Willett.  Comment was made by the following 
member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from P Public to CB Community Business for land 
located south of Missile Drive, east of I-25.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4476) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING Amending Ordinance #4447, approving and establishing 
revised water and sewer rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service 
charges and penalties, and septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board 
of Public Utilities by replacing Board of Public Utilities Resolution No. 2022 -03 in Section 9.  
Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on thir d and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the  governing body 
present. (#4477) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located west of Van Buren Avenue, north of Dell Range Boulevard.  Mr. Cook moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultural Residential to NR -3 
Neighborhood Residential -  High Density for land located west of Van Buren Avenue, north of 
Dell Range Boulevard.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to NR -3 Neighborhood 
Residential - High Density for land located east of Warren Avenue, south of 4th Street.  Mr. Cook 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of Atlantic Drive, east of Taft Avenue  – referred to Public Services Commmittee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County HI Heavy Industrial and County A -2 
Agricultural to MR Medium Density Residential for land located south of Atlantic Drive, east of 
Taft Avenue – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of 6th Street, east of College Drive – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor 
– Mr. Cook) 
                
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County P Public to P Public for land located 
south of 6th Street, east of College Drive – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 15.08, 15.09, 
15.10, 15.12, 15.16, 15.22, 15.24 and 15.26 of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of  the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, updating specified building code 
requirements and fees adopted by the city  – referred to Committee of the Whole. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal) 
                
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 2.84.050, International Fire Code 
Board of Appeals, of Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, of Title 2, 
Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
pertaining to the International Fire Code Board of Appeals – referred to Committee of the Whole. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending various sections within Chapter 8.12, 
International Fire Code Adopted, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, updating the edition of the International Fire Code adopted by the City 
and further amending as specified – referred to Committee of the Whole. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the execution of a Promissory Note to the State of Wyoming 
in the amount of $4,862,745.00 to Fund Fire Pension A (General Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. White)   
 
 [CA] RESOLUTION – Designating local banks as depositorie s for municipal funds – referred 
to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W. S. §§ 16- 4-112 & 16- 4-113 – referred to Finance Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. White)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Equipoise 
Addition, 2nd Filing, a replat of all of Block 1 (Lots 1 & 2, inclusive) Equipoise Addition, City of 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of Country Club 
Avenue and Snyder Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for the Maltese Cross, a subdivision of a portion of the W ½ of Section 
16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located south of E. College Drive, west of Sweetgrass Drive) – referred to Public 
Services Committee.  
 
 [CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Summit Engineering 
for design and bidding services for the US-30 Greenway Underpass Project (2017 Specific Purpose 
Option Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $84,300.00). 
(#7653)  
                                         
[CA] Grant award agreement with the State of Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a grant 
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), FEMA, Grant Programs Directorate, 
SHSP Grant Fiscal Year 2022 in the amount of $138,078.00 for the Cheyenne Regional Response 
Team #7 (DHS Grant Code: EMW -2022-SS-00077).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#7654) 
 
[CA] Grant award agreement with the State of Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a grant 
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), FEMA, Grant Programs Directorate,  
SHSP Grant Fiscal Year 2022 in the amount of $110,000.00 for the purchase and installation of 
two permanent generators (DHS Grant Code: EMW-2022-SS-00077).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7655) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the Cheyenne Police Department, Cheyenne 
Regional Medical Center, Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and Dr. Clair White of the 
University of Wyoming regarding the establishment and implementation of a Community- Based 
Law Enforce ment and Behavioral Health Co -Response to behavioral health emergency calls 
within Laramie County (Wyoming Department of Health Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#7656)  
 
 Business Associate Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Regional Medical 
Center and Dr. Clair White for the Behavioral Health Co-Response Project (Wyoming Department 
of Health Grant).  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. White moved to 
amend by substitute dated December 9, 2022, seconded by Mr. Johnson. Motion to amend by 
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as 
amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body present. 
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Mr. Cook.  (#7657)  
                                  
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and the Downtown Development Authority (DDA) 
granting a subaward to be used for a Small Business Rental Assistance Program for businesses in 
the Historic Downtown District experiencing hardship due to COVID (American Rescue Plan 
Federal Recovery Funds (ARPA)) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $40,000.00). (#7658) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire & Rescue 
Department and TimeClockPlus for sc heduling software (General Fund)  – referred to Finance 
Committee.          
        
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-8-23 for ammunition for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bids from Dooley 
Enterprises, Inc., Anaheim, California in an amount not to exceed $30,281.00 for Line Items P1, 
P3, P5, and R1 and from Salt Lake Wholesale Sports, Salt Lake City, Utah, in an amount not to 
exceed $14,563.00 for Line Items P2, P4, P6, R2, T1, and T2).  
                                      
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -9-23 for one (1) new Utility Work Machine for the City of 
Cheyenne Weed & Pest Division ( Weed & Pest Fund).   Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Bobcat of the Rockies, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $91,999.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-7-23 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and High 
Plains Energy Inc. d/b/a Pinnacle Electric & Construction Corp., for the Cheyenne Junior League 
Ballfields Lighting Installation Project (Community Facility Fees Fund & American Rescue Plan 
Federal Recovery Funds (ARPA)) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
 [CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Power Equipment Company 
for the replacement of the tracks and rollers on the undercarriage of a D6 Liebh err Dozer utilized 
at the City of Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Meridian Rapid Defense 
Group LLC, for the purchase of an Anti -Vehicle Barrier and Trail er System for the Community 
Recreation and Events Department (2015-2018 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund and American Rescue 
Plan Federal Recovery Funds (ARPA)) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
 Transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for Andiamo 307 LLC d/b/a Andiamo 307, 1808 O’Neil Ave., Cheyenne, WY (license currently 
held by Poor Richard’s d/b/a Poor Richard’s).  Mr. White advised there was no motion from 
committee.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Dr. Aldrich moved to amend 
by including a reversion clause that if the license is not in use by March 31, 2023 it will be reverted 
back to the city, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, 
Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, 
Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal.  Main motion failed. Voting “yes” – Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Dr. 
Rinne and Mr. Roybal.  Voting “no” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Segrave and 
Mr. White. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, 
Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, and Mr. Segrave. 
                                      
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting the Gold Star Family Charity, will be 
held January 13 - January 15, 2023 beginning at 4:00 p.m. each day at American Legion Post 6, 
2001 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming (10% of proceeds go to the charity). 
 
Announcement was made that a Committee of the Whole meeting will be held on 
December 21, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, 
and via electronic conference meeting. 
 
Announcement was made that due to the Christmas holiday schedule, the regularly 
scheduled City Council meeting on Monday, December 26, 2022, will instead be held on Tuesday, 
December 27, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, 
and via electronic conference meeting. 
 
Public comment was made by Jim Barnes under other business. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business : Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Johnson.  
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:50 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kylie Soden,    
Deputy City Clerk, CMC 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 21, 2022  
   