MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2022-12-27 | CLIP_ID: 877 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 877

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 27, 2022  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook,  Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn. Dr. Mark Rinne,  Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White . 
Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Upon request by Mr. White , and pursuant to support 
received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Roybal, item #19 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 12, 2022.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  
                
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located west of Van Buren Avenue, north of Dell Range Boulevard.  Reporting for the Public 
Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4478)   
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County AR Agricultural Residential to NR -3 
Neighborhood Residential - High Density for land located west of Van Buren Avenue, north of 
Dell Range Boulevard.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#4479) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to NR -3 Neighborhood 
Residential - High Density for land located east of Warren Avenue, south of 4th Street.  Mr. Cook 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Dr. Aldrich moved to 
amend by changing the zoning classification from NR -3 to NR -2, seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  
Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, and Mr. Segrave.  Main 
motion carried.  Voting “yes” – Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal, 
Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, and Dr. Rinne.  Public 
comment was made by Brandon Swain, Del Scholfield, and Richard Currit. Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, and Mr. 
Segrave.  (#4480) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of Atlantic Drive, east of Taft Ave nue.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.   
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County HI Heavy Industrial and County A -2 
Agricultural to MR Medium Density Residential for land located south of Atlantic Drive, east of 
Taft Avenue.   Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. Johnson 
voting “no”.   
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of 6th Street, east of College Drive.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
                
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the Ci ty of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County P Public to P Public for land located 
south of 6th Street, east of College Drive.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 15.08, 15.09, 
15.10, 15.12, 15.16, 15.22, 15.24 and 1 5.26 of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, updating specified building code 
requirements and fees adopted by the city.  Reporting for the Committee of the Whole, Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  
Public comment was made by Mike White.  Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, and Mr. Segrave.   
                
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 2.84.050, International Fire Code 
Board of Appeals, of Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, of Title 2, 
Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
pertaining to the International Fire Code Board of Appeals . Mr. Roybal moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by M r. White. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.   
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending various sections within Chapter 8.12, 
International Fire Code Adopted, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, updating the edition of the International Fire Code adopted by the City 
and further amending as specified.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. White.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated December 14, 2022, seconded by Mr. 
White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of 
Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Main motion, as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.   
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING –Creating Chapter 2.54, Boards and Commissions; 
Requirements Generally, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, setting the 
minimum standards by which boards and commissions conduct public business – referred to Public 
Services Committee.  (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave)   
  
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Ordinance No. 4455 defining the Terms and  
Conditions of Employment for sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 
 2022-2023 by updating the department’s pay plan schedule as specified in Exhibit B relevant to 
cost-of-living adjustments for city employees – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
 White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the execution of a Promissory Note to the State of Wyoming 
in the amount of $4,862,745.00 to Fund Fire Pension A (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried.  (#6292)  
 
RESOLUTION – Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds .  Mayor 
Collins declared a conflict and relinquished duties of the Chair to President Roybal.  Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who declared a 
conflict.  Following the vote on this item, Mr. Roybal relinquished duties of the Chair to Mayor 
Collins. (#6293) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W. S. §§ 16 -4-112 & 16-4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried.  (#6294) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Equipoise 
Addition, 2nd Filing, a replat of all of Block 1 (Lots 1 & 2, inclusive) Equipoise Addition, City of 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of Country Club 
Avenue and Snyder Avenue).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6295)  
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing a cost -of-living salary increase to eligible full -time 
employees of the City of Cheyenne (all city funds) – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsors – 
Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Declining the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) 
entitlement grant between the City of Cheyenne and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD) – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. White)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15-1-402 for the City- 
initiated annexation of tracts of land situated in portions of Sunny Side Addition and Sunnyside 
Addition Second Filing, Section 12, T. 13 N., E. 67 W., 6 th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming – 
referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)  
 Preliminary Plat for the  Maltese Cross, a subdivision of a portion of the W ½ of Section 
16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located south of E. College Drive, West of Sweetgrass Drive).  Mr. Cook moved to 
acknowledge the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve with staff conditions #1 & 
2, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire & Rescue 
Department and TimeClockPlus for scheduling software (General Fund) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $31,868.00).  (#7659) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding regarding a request for Impact Assistance Funds from the 
State of Wyoming, Industrial Siting Council:  South Cheyenne Solar Project, Laramie County, and 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Cook advised this item was reviewed under other items for 
the agenda at the December 20, 2022, Public Services Committee meeting, therefore, provisions 
of Title 2 of City Code have been met.  Mr. Cook moved to approve in an amount of $86,681.20, 
seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  (#7660) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, and the City of Laramie Police Department, for law enforcement extra -territorial 
assistance – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Real Estate Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and James O. Woods, IV 
and Leah K. Woods, Trustees of the James O. Woods, IV, Living Trust dated July 19, 2017 and 
Leah K. Woods and James O. Woods, IV, Trustees of the Leah K. Woods Living Trust, dated July 
19, 2017 for the purchase of real property generally located on the east side of Parsons Place and 
north of US 30, consisting of approximately 59,330 square feet (2017 Specific Purpose Option 
Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the Cheyenne Police Department, Memorial 
Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional Medical Center, Laramie County Sheriff’s 
Department, Laramie County and Dr. Clair White of the University of Wyoming regarding the 
establishment and implementation of a Community -Based Law Enforcement and Behavioral 
Health Co -Response to behavioral health emergency calls within Laramie County  (Wyoming 
Department of Health Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Donation Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Union Pacific Railroad Company 
to accept a donation of selected heritage fleet railroad cars – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Rail Hub, LLC, to provide for the 
temporary storage of railcars owned by the City of Cheyenne. (2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax 
Fund and EDA Grant No. 05-79-06167) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-7-23 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and High 
Plains Energy Inc. d/b/a Pinnacle Electric & Construction Corp., for the Cheyenne Junior League 
Ballfields Lighting Installation Project (Community Facility Fees Fund & American Rescue Plan 
Federal Recovery Funds (ARPA) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried  (accepted bid in an 
amount not to exceed $1,764,915.00). (#7661) 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Power Equipment Company 
for the replacement of the tracks and rollers on the undercarriage of a D6 Liebherr Dozer utilized 
at the City of Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $48,651.08). (#7662) 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Meridian Rapid Defense 
Group LLC, for the purchase of an Anti -Vehicle Barrier and Trailer System for the Community 
Recreation and Events Department (2015-2018 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund and American Rescue 
Plan Federal Recovery Funds (ARPA)). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not 
to exceed $90,115.98). (#7663)  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -10-23 for two (2) new four-door 2023 mid-size model SUVs, and 
one (1) new 2023 1-ton crew cab full size pickup truck (SWAT truck) for the Cheyenne Police 
Department (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for Railspur, LLC d/b/a Railspur, 707 W. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by 
Get Bent, LLC).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  
 
Reappointments of Cathie Tabor -Douglas to the Historic Preservation Board; Patti 
Reisland, Lauren Johnson, Ann Clement, Marsha Dial, Julie Tucker, Michelle Woerner, and Carol 
Behrend to the Mayor’s Council; for People with Disabilities; William Beaman to the City/County 
Frontier Park Improvements Joint Powers Board; Jeffie Wiggins -McMullen to the Fire Civic 
Service Commission; Carla Winkler to the Police civil Service Commission; Amy Hernandez and 
Robert Mathia to the Planning Commission; Nicholas Pickering , Ray Fertig, Jr. and Julie Goode 
to the Building Code Board of Appeals; and Trent Carroll to the Board of Adjustment.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments).   
 
Appointments of Dr. Maxwell Silver to the Cheyenne/Laramie County Board of Health; 
Markese Green to the Board of Adjustment; Patrick Bustos to the Historic Preservation Board; 
Melissa Amick to the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board; Lisa Nowotny to the Mayor’s Council 
for People with Disabilities; and Chandler Carroll to the Contractor Licensing Board.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  White. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments).   
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made that the Sine’ Die meeting will be held on Tuesday, January 3, 
2023, at noon (12:00 p.m.) in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and 
via electronic conference meeting.   
Announcement was made that the First Regular meeting of the Governing  Body will be 
held on Tuesday, January 3, 2023, at 12:15 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, 
Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting.  
 
Announcement was made that due to the New Year’s holiday schedule, regularly scheduled 
City C ouncil Committee meetings will be held as follows: Finance Committee will meet 
Wednesday, January 4, 2023 at Noon and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday, 
January 4, 2023 at 2:00 p.m.  Both meetings will be held at 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 104 an d 
via electronic conference meeting. The Committee of the Whole will also meet Wednesday, 
January 4, 2023 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, and via electronic 
conference meeting.  
 
Announcement was made that a Public Hearing will to be held on January 9, 2023 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 exist for about 10. 7 acres of land located at 5908 Ridge Road, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the intersection of Ridge Road and Holland 
Court).  
 
Announcement was made that a Public Hearing will be held on January 9, 2023 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers , 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute § 15-1-402 exist for about 7.68 acres of land located in the N1/2N1/2, Section 
12, T.13N., R.67W. of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of Southwest Drive, 
north of I-80).  
 
Announcement was made that a Public Hearing will be held on January 9, 2023 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via elec tronic 
conference meeting, for a transfer of location of retail liquor license application filed with the City 
Clerk’s office for Poor Richard’s, from 1808 O’Neil Ave. to 1507 Stillwater Ave., Unit D, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
 
Public comment was made by Chad Willett, Railspur, LLC.   
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business: Mr. 
Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, and Mr. Segrave.    
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, t he meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:20 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,    
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 5, 2023  
   
 