MEETING: First Regular Meeting | DATE: 2023-01-03 | CLIP_ID: 879 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 879

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
            
January 3, 2023  
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne assembled for its First Regular Meeting for 
2023 on this date in Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting .  Welcoming 
comments were made by Mayor Collins. 
 
 Mayor Collins officially called the First Regular Meeting of the governing body to order 
at 12:15 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Those present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White.  Also present was Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited.   
 
 Election of City Council President for 2023.  Mayor Collins stated that, pursuant to City 
Code, the mayor conducts the election for Council President but does not cast a vote.  Dr. Rinne 
moved to nominate and elect  Mr. Johnson as City Council President for 2023, seconded by Mr.  
Roybal.   Motion to nominate and elect Mr. Johnson as City Council President carried.    Voting 
“yes” -- all members of the governing body with the exception of  Mr. Segrave voting “no” and 
Mayor Collins who did not vote. 
 
 Election of City Council Vice President for 2023.  Mayor Collins stated that, pursuant to 
City Code, the mayor conducts the election for Council Vice -President but does not cast a vote.  
Dr. Rinne moved to nominate and elect M r. Esquibel as City Council Vice President for 2023, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to nominate and elect M r. Esquibel as City Council Vice 
President carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor 
Collins who did not vote.  
 
 Approval of appointment of City Officials (pursuant to Title 2 of the Code of the City of 
Cheyenne) as follows: Charles W. Bloom, Planning and Development Director; Stefanie Boster, 
City Attorney; Bradley M. Bowen, Assistant City Treasurer (Board of Public Utilities) ; Thomas 
D.  Cobb, City Engineer; Mark Francisco, Chief of the Cheyenne Police Department ; Ronnald J. 
Jeffrey, Juvenile Court Judge; Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk/Assistant City Treasurer; John B. 
Kopper, Chief of Cheyenne Fire and Rescue Department; Robin L. Lockman, City Treasurer;  
Vicki Nemecek, Director of Public Works; Anthony R oss, Senior Municipal Court Judge; Jason 
M. Sanchez, Community Recreation & Events Director; and David E. Singleton, Municipal Court 
Judge.  Mayor Collins stated that, pursuant to state law, as these are Mayoral appointees, he would 
not be participating in discussion or voting on the proposed appointments.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve the appointees “en masse”, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried with all members of 
the governing body voting “yes” with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote.  Following 
announcement of the vote, Honorable Justice Kate Fox, Wyoming Supreme Court, administered 
the oath of appointed office to the City Officials. 
 
   
 
 There being no further business previously noted for the First Regular Meeting and purpose 
of the meeting have been met, the meeting was officially adjourned at 12:23 p.m. 
 
       Submitted by, 
 
 
       Kristina F. Jones, 
       City Clerk 
 
 This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
   
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 7, 2023  
 