MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-01-09 | CLIP_ID: 882 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 882

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 9, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook,  Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn. Dr. Mark Rinne,  Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White . 
Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda . Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Johnson and Mr. White, items #24 , #28(d) and #28(e) were removed from the 
Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich 
and Mr. Johnson, items #28(b) and #28(c) were removed from the Consent Agenda.   Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 27, 2022.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Sine Die Session of the Governing Body on January 3, 2023. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from the First Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 3, 2023. Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a Public Hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 exist for about 10.7 acres of land located at 
5908 Ridge Road, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the intersection of Ridge Road 
and Holland Court).  Purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public 
hearing.  Public comment was made by: Brad Emmons, AVI, Rebeca Murchie; John Cecil; and 
Peggy Escamilla.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Rinne and Mr. Roybal.     
 
Mayor Collins opened a Public Hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 exist for about 7.68 acres of land located in 
the N1/2N1/2, Section 12, T.13N., R.67W. of the 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (located 
east of Southwest Drive, north of I -80). Purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins 
closed the public hearing. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich. 
Mayor Collins opened a Public Hearing for a transfer of location of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s office for Poor Richard’s, from 1808 O’Neil Ave. to 1507 
Stillwater Ave., Unit D, Cheyenne, Wyoming.    Purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor 
Collins closed the public hearing.  Mayor Collins announced the applicant has requested the 
application for transfer of location be withdrawn, therefore the application is not being referred to 
the Finance Committee.     
                
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of Atlantic Drive, east of Taft Avenue. Reporting for Public Services Committee , 
Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. 
Voting “yes”- all members of the governing body.  (#4481)   
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County HI Heavy Industrial and County A -2 
Agricultural to MR Medium Density Residential fo r land located south of Atlantic Drive, east of 
Taft Avenue.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by  Mr. Segrave. 
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#4482) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of 6th Street, east of College Drive.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body.  (#4483)   
                
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County P Public to P Public for land located 
south of 6th Street, east of College Drive. Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
(#4484)   
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 15. 08, 15.09, 
15.10, 15.12, 15.16, 15.22, 15.24 and 15.26 of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, updating specified building code 
requirements and fees adopted by the city .  Reporting for Committee of the Whole, Mr. Johnson 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. 
Segrave voting “no”. Public comment was made by Joe Patterson, Homes by Guardian, and Eric 
Adams, Gateway Construction.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Segrave.  (#4485)  
                
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 2.84.050, International Fire Code 
Board of Appeals, of Chapter 2.84, Miscellaneous Boards and Commissions, of Title 2, 
Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
pertaining to the International Fi re Code Board of Appeals .  Mr. Johnson moved to approve on 
third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson, and Mr. Segrave voting “no”. (#4486) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending various sections within Chapter 8.12, 
International Fire Code Adopted, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, updating the edition of the International Fire Code adopted by t he City 
and further amending as specified .  Mr. Johnson moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mr. Johnson, and Mr. Segrave voting “no”. (#4487) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING –Creating Chapter 2.54, Boards and Commissions; 
Requirements Generally, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, setting the 
minimum standards by which boards and commissions conduct public business. Mr. Cook moved 
to approve on sec ond reading , seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Dr. Aldrich moved to postpone to 
January 23, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal.  Main motion failed.  Voting “no” – Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, and Mr. White.   Voting “yes” – Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave.   Comments were made by the follow ing members of 
the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne 
and Mr. White. 
  
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Ordinance No. 4455 defining the Terms and  
Conditions of Employment for sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 
 2022-2023 by updating the department’s pay plan schedule as specified in Exhibit B relevant to  
cost-of-living adjustments for city employees . Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -
all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land  
located southwest of the intersection of Ridge Road and Holland Court  -- referred to Public 
Services Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. COOK) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agriculture and Rural Residential 
to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential-High Density for land located southwest of the intersection of 
Ridge Road and Holland Court  -- referred to Public Services Committee . (SPONSOR – MR. 
COOK) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of Southwest Drive north of I -80 -- referred to Public Services Committee. 
(SPONSOR – MR. COOK) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial to LI Light Industrial 
for land located east of Southwest Drive north of I -80 -- referred to Public Services Committee. 
(SPONSOR – MR. COOK) 
 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Vacating West 19th Street, west of Grant Avenue, City of 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of Old Happy Jack Road, west of Missile 
Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. COOK) 
  
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing a cost -of-living salary increase to el igible full -time 
employees of the City of Cheyenne (all city funds) .  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. 
Aldrich.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated December 29, 202 2, seconded by Mr. 
Esquibel.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Main motion, as 
amended, carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6295) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Declining the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) 
entitlement grant between the City of Cheye nne and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD).  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. Roybal moved 
to postpone to January 23, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion  to postpone carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment was made by:  Erin LeBlanc, Laramie 
County Senior Center Director; Amy Spieker, Laramie County Community Partnership Executive 
Director; Brenda Birkle, My Front Door Executive Director; Steve Ganison and Scott Hoversland, 
WCDA.  [Clerk’s note:  Mayor Collins recessed the meeting  briefly at 7:32 p.m. and reconvened 
the meeting at 7:38 p.m. Mayor Collins relinquished duties of the Chair to President Johnson at 
7:27 p.m. for one minute and resumed duties of the Chair at 7:28 p.m.]     
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15-1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of tracts of land situated in portions of Sunny Side Addition and Sunnyside 
Addition Second Filing, Section 12, T. 13 N., E. 67 W., 6 th P.M., Laramie County,  Wyoming. 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  (#6296)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving Water and Sanitary Sewer Services, by Outside User Water 
and Sanitary Sewer Services Agreements, for UMC Properties, LLC, for North Range Business 
Park 3rd Filing:  Lot 2, Block 9, Laramie County, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 
Maltese Cross, situated in the W1/2 of Section 16, Township 13 North, Range 66 West of the 6 th 
P.M., and including a portion of public right-of-way dedicated with Sweetgrass, 7th Filing, City of 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of East Murray Drive wes t and adjacent to 
Sweetgrass Drive) -- referred to Public Services Committee.                
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, and the City of Laramie Police Department, for law enforcement extra-territorial 
assistance. Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to postpone 
to January 23, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” - all 
members of the governing body. 
 
 Real Estate Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and James O. Woods, IV 
and Leah K. Woods, Trustees of the James O. Woods, IV, Living Trust dated July 19, 2017 and 
Leah K. Woods and James O. Woods, IV, Trustees of the Leah K. Woods Living Trust, dated July 
19, 2017 for the purchase of real property generally located on the east side of Parsons Place and 
north of US 30, consisting of approximately 59,330 square feet (2017 Specific Purpose Option 
Tax Fund). Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $195,0 00.00, seconded by 
Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes”- all members of the governing body. (#7662) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the Cheyenne Police Department, Memorial 
Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional Medical Center, Lar amie County Sheriff’s 
Department, Laramie County and Dr. Clair White of the University of Wyoming regarding the 
establishment and implementation of a Community -Based Law Enforcement and Behavioral 
Health Co -Response to behavioral health emergency calls wit hin Laramie County  (Wyoming 
Department of Health Grant ). Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes”- all members of the governing body. (#7663) 
 
 Donation Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Union Pacific Railroad Company 
to accept a donation of selected heritage fleet railroad cars. Mr. White moved to approve, seconded 
by Mr. Esquibel.  Dr. Aldrich moved to amend to not to exceed a total of nine (9) cars, seconded 
by Mr. Laybourn.  Motion failed due to a tie vote.  Voting “no” – Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. 
Rinne, Mr. Roybal, and Mr. Segrave. Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. 
Esquibel, and Mr. White. Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White  voting “no” .  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, 
Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  (#7664)  
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Rail Hub, LLC, to provide for the 
temporary storage of railcars owned by the City of Cheyenne (2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax 
Fund and EDA Grant No. 05-79-06167).  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. 
Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. White voting “no”. Comments were made by the following members 
of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave. (#7665) 
 
[CA] Professional Service s Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI Professional 
Corporation, for the Storey Boulevard Extension Project Design and Bidding/Construction 
Services Project (2019-2022 1% Optional Sales Tax Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO), and BenchMark Engineers, P.C., for the Southwest Drive Corridor 
Plan (MPO Federal Funds) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Memorandum of  Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Dozzer, LLC, to 
authorize filing of platting application(s) for City-owned lands for the purpose of access and future 
development -- referred to Public Services Committee.  
 
[CA] Sub-Award Agreement between t he City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire Rescue and the 
Memorial Hospital of Laramie County to provide grant funded community paramedicine services. 
(WY Department of Health, Community Emergency Medical Services Grant Program) -- referred 
to Finance Committee.          
 
 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -10-23 for two (2) new four-door 2023 mid-size model SUVs, and 
one (1) new 2023 1 -ton crew cab full size pickup truck (SWAT truck) for the Cheyenne Police 
Department (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Ken Garff Cheyenne, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $229,382.14.  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-8-23 for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheeney 
Landscaping, Inc., for the Cheyenne C emeteries Irrigation System Replacement Project  (2021 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made  that due to the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, regularly 
scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held follows:  Finance Committee 
will meet Tuesday, January 17, 2023 at Noon and Public Services Committee will meet 
Wednesday, January 18, 2023 at Noon.  Both meetings will be held at 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 
104 and via electronic conference meeting.   
 
Announcement was made that two Calcuttas benefitting Make-A-Wish Wyoming, will be 
held January 27 – January 29, 2023 at VFW 1881, 2826 E. 7 th St., Cheyenne, WY and March 14 
– March 19, 2023 at the Red Lion Hotel, 204 Fox Farm Rd., Cheyenne, WY (15% of proceeds go 
to the charity). 
 
Public comment was made by Jason Sanchez under Other Business.    
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 9:10 p.m.   
 
        Submitted by, 
 
             
  
        Kristina F. Jones,    
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 19, 2023   
 