MEETING: Special Meeting of the Governing Body - No Video Available | DATE: 2023-02-09 | CLIP_ID: 886 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 886

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 6, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in a special session on this date 
beginning at 12:11 p.m. in Committee Room 104 and via electronic conference meeting.  Present 
were: COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook,  Ken Esquibel, Richard 
Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White. Absent: MAYOR – Patrick 
Collins and Dr. Mark Rinne. Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.   
 
 RESOLUTION -- Authorizing the submission of an application to the State Loan and 
Investment Board for a grant th rough the Local Government Project ARP A grant program on 
behalf of the Governing Body for the City of Cheyenne fo r the purpose of providing critically 
needed flood control at East Dell Range Boulevard and Van Buren Avenue. Reporting for the 
Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Royal.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Comment was made by the following member 
of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn.  (#6299) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Supporting the Board of Public Utilities’ application to the Wyoming 
State Loan and Investment Board for a Local Government ARPA Grant for the Water Reclamation 
Facilities (WRF) Hydraulic Capacity Project (Project) in the amount of $1,984,000.00 a nd 
authorizing the Director of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and all related 
documents.  Mr. White advised this item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the 
February 6, 2023 Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code have 
been met.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion  carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present.  Comment was made by the following member of 
the governing body: Mr. Laybourn.  (#6300)  
  
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 12:14 p.m. 
         
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones,    
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  February 11, 2023   
 
 