MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-02-13 | CLIP_ID: 887 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 887

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 13, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook,  Ken Esquibel, 
Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne,  Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White .  Absent: Richard 
Johnson. Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by  Mr. White.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 23, 2023.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on February 6, 2023.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried.  
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Wyoming Horse Racing, LLC d/b/a Horse Palace, 
6421 Speer Rd., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by Poor Richard’s d/b/a Poor Richard’s).   
The purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins  closed the hearing and  referred the 
application to Finance Committee.  Public comment was made by: Nick Hughes, President of 
Wyoming Horse Racing, LLC.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, and Mr. Laybourn. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land  
located southwest of the intersection of Ridge Road and Holland Court.  Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Mr. Cook  moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  
Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to postpone to February 27, 2023, seconded by Mr.  Segrave. Motion 
to postpone carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body present.  Public comment 
was made by: Cooper Perryman, AVI, Mathew Kasper, Gateway Construction, Rebecca Murchie, 
and John Pike.   Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, and Mr. Cook. 
  
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City  of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agriculture and Rural Residential 
to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential-High Density for land located southwest of the intersection of 
Ridge Road and Holland Court.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. White. Mr. Cook moved to postpone to February 27, 2023, seconded by Mr.  Segrave. 
Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” -- all members of the governing body  present.  Public 
comment was made by: Josh Applegate. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of Southwest Drive north of  I-80. Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” - all members of the governing 
body present. (#4489) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County LI Light Industrial to LI Light Industrial 
for land located east of Southwest Drive north of I -80.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and 
final reading, s econded by Mr.  Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” -all members of the 
governing body present. (#4490) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Vacating West 19th Street, west of Grant Avenue, City of 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of Old Happy Jack Road, west of Missile 
Drive).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” -all members of the governing body present. (#4491) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 1.3 of the Unified Development Code 
(UDC), amending the enforcement regulations of the UDC and making other conforming 
amendments – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. 
Johnson and Mr. White) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business and CB Community 
Business to CB Community Business for land located between Old Happy Jack Road and 
Lincolnway, west of Missile Drive – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
  RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Dell 
Range Addition, Sixth Filing, a replat of a portion of Tract 25, Dell Range Addition, City of 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the intersection of Ridge Road and 
Holland Court) .  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to 
postpone to February 27, 2023, seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion to postpone carrie d.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6301) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing City staff to prepare a Memorandum of Understanding 
between the City of Cheyenne and WJE, LLC regarding acceptance of Tracts 1, 2, and 3, Saddle 
Ridge 18th Filing subdivision as open space and defining private maintenance responsibility. Mr. 
Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave voting “no”. Public 
comment was made by: John Edward s, WJE, LLC.  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Segrave. (#6302) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body and directing City staff 
to work with the Wyoming Department of Transportation to name the new segment of road created 
by the “Lincolnway Service Interchange” Project to recognize the USS Cheyenne (SSN -773) 
Naval Submarine.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6303) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of the Americorps Foster Grandparent Program 
application to Americorps on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne to submit 
continuation application for the next three years of funding for the Youth Alternatives Foster 
Grandparent Program necessary support items  – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the Cheyenne Transit Program 2023 Transit Development 
Plan – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to  sign a Final Plat for Back 
40 Subdivision, Third Filing, a replat of a portion of Lot 1, Block 1 Back 40 Subdivision First 
Filing, Lot 1, Block 2 and Lot 1, Block 3 Back 40 Subdivision Second Filing, and Lot 1 Block 1 
Cheyenne Ice & Events Center 4 th Filing being situated in a portion of Section 1, Township 13 
North, Range 67 West of the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located 
north of the intersection of Grant Avenue and W Lincolnway)  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)           
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Centennial Heritage, 2 nd Filing, a replat of Lots 8 thru 12, Block 2 Centennial Heritage and a 
portion of the NW1/4 of Section 2, Township 13 North Range 66 West, City of Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located south of Raleigh Drive, near Savannah Drive and Taft Avenue)  – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)           
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the will of the Governing Body recognizing the need to 
provide City Boards, Commissions, and Councils with the tools they need to be effective, efficient, 
and transparent – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, 
Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave)           
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing PaydHealth, LLC, to provide advocacy and financial case 
management services for eligible specialty prescription drugs through alternative funding 
programs effective July 1, 2023 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)   
 
[CA] Preliminary Plat for Hill Heights Addition, 2 nd Filing, a replat of the north 132 feet of the 
east 120 feet of the east 190 feet of the SE 1/4 of Tract 36, Hill Heights Addition, City of Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. 
    
 Real Estate Purchase Agreement between Keizer Inc. and the City of Cheyenne for the 
purchase of real property generally located south of Atlantic Drive, between Cottonwood Drive 
and Centennial Drive and north of the Union Pacific Railroad, Laramie County, consisting of 
approximately 4.01 acres, more or less (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund).  Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $168,000.00, 
seconded by Mr.  Esquibel.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated February 11, 2023, 
seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present. Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#7683) 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Trihydro Corporation 
for the Landfill Methane Mitigation Work Plan Implementation (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $56,213.00). (#7684) 
 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Office of 
Homeland Security for project scoping of the Cheyenne 18 th Street Storm Sewer Interceptor 
Advance Assistance Project – referred to Finance Committee. (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Funding and US Department of Homeland Security FEMA Funding)   
   
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and BenchMark 
Engineers, PC for the Transfer Station Lift Station Upgrade or Replacement Project – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Solid Waste Fund)   
   
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Arts Cheyenne for 
cooperative interaction, art-based initiatives and continued endorsement of Arts Cheyenne as the 
official local arts agency – referred to Finance Committee. 
   
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Goat Systems, LLC, 
for clarification and assurances of City development and reimbursement processes – referred to 
Finance Committee.  
   
 [CA] Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Ove rstreet Homar & 
Kuker for legal services for the Contractor Licensing Board – referred to Finance Committee.  
(General Fund) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Overstreet Homar & 
Kuker for legal services for the Board of Adjustment – referred to Finance Committee. (General 
Fund)   
   
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for 
EOD, SWAT, and CNU Operations and Extraterritorial Law Enforcement assistance and activities 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
   
[CA]  Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7590 -Owner and Design -Builder Agreement 
between the City of Cheyenne and FCI Constructors of Wyoming, LLC, for finishing the 
Cheyenne Public Safety Center (2012 & 2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax Funds).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $2,148,310.00).  (#7590) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E -11-23 for fifty (50) trash receptacles for the City of Cheyenne, 
Community Recreation & Events Department (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund).  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Conserv Flag Company, Sidney, NE, in an 
amount not to exceed $58,000.00). 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S -3-23 for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Pole 
Mountain Electric, Inc. for the 17th Street Lighting Improvements Phase II Project (2017 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund).  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $476,989.38, 
seconded by Mr. Cook.  Mr. White moved to dire ct staff to fund the balance in an amount not to 
exceed $282,341.38 from the 2021 Specific Purpose Option Sales Tax Fund for Downtown 
Projects, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, and Mr. White. (#7685) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -10-23 for an ag reement between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group, Inc., d/b/a Knife River for 2023 City Overlay Part #1  (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund and 2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $2,098,178.40). (#7686) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-12-23 for lift-equipped Transit vehicles for the City of Cheyenne, 
Transit Division – referred to Finance Committee. (Transit Program Funding)  
         
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -11-23 for an agreement between the City of Cheyenn e and JTL 
Group Inc. d/b/a Knife River for the 2023 City Overlay Part #2 project – referred to Finance 
Committee. (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund)  
         
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-9-23 for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Welding 
& Machine Inc. for the Sanitation Division Transfer Station Welding Repairs project – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Solid Waste Fund)  
 
Appointments of Sheriff Brian Kozak and John Brodie to the Laramie County Community 
Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board.  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of 
Mayor Collins who did not vote (Mayoral appointments). 
         
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Notice of Emergency Procurement. In accordance with the City of Cheyenne Purchasing 
Policy, an Emergency Procurement has been authorized by Mayor Collins for the Emergency Fleet 
Maintenance Facility Sanitary Sewer Repair. The emergency repair has been authorized to Sewer 
& Drain Repair Specialists, LLC, for a total of $84,995.00. Comment was made by the following 
member of the governing body: Mayor Collins. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 27, 2023 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for renewal applications for existing City liquor licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, 
resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite distillery, special malt beverage and winery 
permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office. 
 
Announcement was made that due to the Presidents Day holiday on Monday, February 20, 
2023, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held as follows: 
Finance Committee will meet at Noon on Tuesday, February 21, 2023 and Public Ser vices 
Committee will meet at Noon on Wednesday, February 22, 2023.  Both meetings will be held at 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 104 and via electronic conference meeting. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held February 27, 2023 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute 
§15-1-402 exist for 9.87 acres of land situated in portions of Sunnyside Addi tion and Sunnyside 
Addition Second Filing, Section 12, T.13 N., R. 67 W., 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming. 
 
Under other business: 
 
City Clerk Kris Jones advised the following item was being introduced and referred to 
Finance Committee - Donation agreemen t between the City of Cheyenne and Union Pacific 
Railroad Company to accept a donation of selected heritage fleet railroad cars – referred to Finance 
Committee.   
 
Public comment was made by Zem Hopkins under other business. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Cook, and Mr. Esquibel. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:13 p.m. 
         
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones,    
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  February 22, 2023   