MEETING: Special City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-02-16 | CLIP_ID: 893 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 893

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 16, 2023  
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in special session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Committee Room 104, 2101 O’Neil Ave, and via electronic conference meeting, 
for the purpose of collective labor bargaining with the Cheyenne Professional Fire fighters, 
International Association of Firefighters, Local No. 279.  Present were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins, 
COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook (arriving at 6:34 p.m. during 
executive session), Ken Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, 
Tom Segrave and Jeff White.  Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk; Stefanie Boster, City 
Attorney; Jo Jordan, Legal Assistant, City Attorney’s Office; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, and 
Chief John Kopper, Cheyenne Fire and Rescue.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Mayor Collins advised the meeting would be audio recorded and available on Facebook 
live and stated that Wyoming State Statute §16-4-405(a)(x) of the Public Meetings Act allows the 
governing body to meet in executive session to consider or tender offers regarding salaries, wages 
or other terms and conditions of employment during negotiations with the fire fighters union and 
that any motion approved by the governing body to move into executive session during the special 
meetings would be pursuant to this section of statute.    
 
Mayor Collins provided  opening comments noting he has been meeting with the Fire 
Department for labor management discussions which have resulted in a better understanding of 
the functions of their department.  Mayor Collins expressed appreciation to Chief John Kopper for 
the work he does with the Union and his representation of the Fire Department and to members of 
the Union’s negotiation team.  The proposed Ground Rules were agreed upon and signed by the 
City and Union. [Cle rk’s note: City’s Spokespersons are: Mayor Patrick Collins, City Attorney 
Stefanie Boster and City Council President Richard Johnson.  Union’s Spokespersons are: Neil 
Durante, Vincent McQueeney and Kelsey Raile.]  
 
Following signing of the Ground Rules by Mayor Collins and Union Spokesperson Vincent 
McQueeney both parties presented their respective proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement 
proposals.  Mayor Collins briefly reviewed the City’s proposal which included changes to the 
following areas and Sections: update cover page; update table of contents; Section 2 -Definitions; 
Section 3-Exclusive Bargaining Agent ; Section 4 -Term of Agreement ; Section 8 -Grievance 
Procedures; Section 12 -Union Representation ; Section 13 -Management Rights ; Section 15 -
Department Staffing; Section 19 -Inclement Weather; Section 21-Classification of Employment 
and Basic Wages; Section 22-Overtime; Section 23-Working in a Higher Job Rank ; Section 24-
Conversion of Benefits ; Section 2 6-Vacation/EOD; Section 31 -Uniforms; Section 32 -Personal 
Protective Equipment; and Section 42-Longevity.  Mr. McQueeney briefly reviewed the Union’s 
proposal which included changes to the following areas and Sections: update cover page; update 
table of con tents; Section 2 -Definitions, Section 15-Department Staffing; Section 20 -Holidays; 
   
Section 21 -Classification of Employment and Basic Wages; Section 22 -Overtime; Section 23 -
Working in a Higher Job Rank; and Section 26-Vacation/EOD  
 
Mr. Johnson moved to meet in executive session, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present.  Those present in executive session 
were:  All members of the governing body; Stefanie Boster, City Attorney; Kristina F. Jones, City 
Clerk; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer; Chief John Kopper, Cheyenne Fire & Rescue; and Jo 
Jordan, City Attorney Legal Assistant.  [Clerk’s Note: executive session convened at 6:27 p.m.] 
 
 Following closure of the executive session, Mayor Collins reconvened the regular meeting 
at 7:02 p.m.  Union Spokesperson Mr. McQueeney echoed the importance of the labor 
management discussions  that occur throughout the year leading up to negotiations.  Mr. 
McQueeney announced the Union’s acceptance of the City’s proposed agreement as written.  
Mayor Collins announced the City’s acceptance of the Union’s proposed agreement as written.  
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:05 p.m.  
 
 
       Submitted by, 
        
        
        
       Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk  
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  February 25, 2023  
 
  
 
 