MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-02-27 | CLIP_ID: 894 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 894

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
February 27, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook,  Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne,  Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White . 
Also present: Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Upon request by Mr . Johnson, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Cook and Mr. Roybal, item #23(c) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon 
request by Mr. White, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Cook and Mr. Johnson, item #23(f) 
was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve remaining items, seconded 
by Mr. Cook.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 13, 2023.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on February 16, 2023.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing  for renewal applications for existing City liquor 
licenses (retail, restaurant, limited retail, resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite 
distillery, special malt beverage and winery permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office. The 
purpose of the  hearing having been met, Mayor Collins  closed the hearing and  referred the 
applications to Finance Committee .  Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Roybal. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for 9.87 acres of land situated in portions 
of Sunnyside Addition and Sunnyside Addition Second Filing, Section 12, T.13 N., R. 67 W., 6 th 
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming.  The purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins 
closed the hearing.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Roybal. 
 
 
 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land  
located southwest of the intersection of Ridge Road and Holland Court (Postponed from February 
13, 2023). Reporting for Public Services Committee , Mr. Cook  moved to approve on third and 
final reading, s econded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4492)  
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City  of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agriculture and Rural Residential 
to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential-High Density for land located southwest of the intersection of 
Ridge Road and Holland Court (Postponed from February 13, 2023). Mr. Cook advised there was 
no recommendation from the Pub lic Services Committee.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by changing the County 
A-1 Agricultural and Rural Residential zoning classification to MR Medium Density Residential, 
seconded by Mr. Laybourn.   Motion to amend failed. Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, 
Mr. Cook and Mr. Laybourn.  Voting “no” - Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal , 
Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. Main motion failed.  Voting “ yes” – Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. Voting “no” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. 
Laybourn and Dr. Rinne.   After a brief recess at 7:26 p.m.,  Dr. Aldrich , having voted on the 
prevailing side of the main motion that failed, moved to reconsider the vote, seconded by Mr. 
Laybourn. Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins , Mr. Cook, 
Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal 
and Mr. Segrave.  Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by changing the County A-1 Agricultural and Rural 
Residential zoning classification to MR Medium Density Residential, seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  
Mr. Roybal moved to postpone until March 13, 2023, seconded by Mr. Esq uibel.  Mr. Johnson 
called a point of order on the motion to postpone, and Mayor Collins advised the motion was 
appropriate.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
Public comment was made by: Brad Emmons, AVI, agent  for the applicant, Jason Ste phen, 
Bedrock Development, Roger Alexander, Stephanie Pyle, Jon Cecil, Jill Randall, Elizabeth Stapel, 
Patrick Rudd, Peggy Escamilla, Rebecca  Murchie, Adam Styers, Sharon Tuggle,  Paul Rickets, 
Matt Kasper, Gateway Homes, Ryan W hitehead and Beth Cecil .  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel,  Mr. 
Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave. 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending Section 1.3 of the Unified Development Code 
(UDC), amending the enforcement regulations of the UDC and making other conforming 
amendments.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting 
“no”.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn, Dr. 
Rinne and Mr. Roybal. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business and CB Community 
Business to CB Community Business for land located between Old Happy Jack Road and 
Lincolnway, west of Missile Drive.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment 
was made by: Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for the applicant. 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, tracts of 
land situated in portions of Sunny Side Addition and Sunnyside Addition Second Filing, Section 
12, T. 13 N., R. 67 W., 6 th P.M., Laramie County Wyoming, generally located east of Ridge Rd. 
between Charles St. and Pershing Blvd., west of Wills Rd. between Cheyenne St. and Pershing 
Blvd., and northeast of the intersection of Pershing Blvd. and Wills Rd. – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Segrave 
and Mr. White) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the Zoning Classification from County MU Mixed Use to MUB Mixed -Use 
Business Emphasis and CB Community Business for tracts of land situated in portions of Sunny 
Side Addition and Sunnyside Addition Second Filing, Section 12, T. 13 N., R. 67 W., 6 th P.M., 
Laramie County, Wyoming, generally located east of Ridge Rd. between Charles St. and Pershing 
Blvd., west of Wills Rd. between Cheyenne St. and Pershing Blvd., and northeast of the  
intersection of Pershing Blvd. and Wills Rd. – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsors 
– Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White)  
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat f or Dell 
Range Addition, Sixth Filing, a replat of a portion of Tract 25, Dell Range Addition, City of 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the intersection of Ridge Road and 
Holland Court) (postponed from February 13, 2023).  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave. Mr. Cook moved to postpone until March 13, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   Public comment was 
made by: Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for the applicant. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16 -4-112 & 16 -4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6304) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of the Americorps Foster Grandparent Program 
application to Americorps on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne to submit 
continuation application for the next three years of funding for th e Youth Alternatives Foster 
Grandparent Program necessary support items.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6305) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying the Cheyenne Transit Program 2023 Transit Development 
Plan.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6306) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Back 
40 Subdivision, Third Filing, a replat of a portion of Lot 1, Block 1 Back 40 Subdivision First 
Filing, Lot 1, Block 2 and Lot 1, Block 3 Back 40 Subdivision Se cond Filing, and Lot 1 Block 1 
Cheyenne Ice & Events Center 4 th Filing being situated in a portion of Section 1, Township 13 
North, Range 67 West of the 6 th P.M., City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located 
north of the intersection of Grant Avenue and W Lincolnway) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6307) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Centennial Heritage, 2 nd Filing, a replat of Lots 8 thru 12, Block 2 Centennial Heritage and a 
portion of the NW1/4 of Section 2, Township 13 North Range 66 West, City of Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located south of Raleigh Drive, near Savannah Drive and Taft Avenue) .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6308) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the will of the Governing Body recognizing the need to 
provide City Boards, Commissions, and Councils with the tools they need to be effective, efficient, 
and transparent.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6309) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing PaydHealth, LLC, to provide advocacy and financial case 
management services for eligible specialty prescription drugs through alternative funding 
programs effective July 1, 2023 .  Mr. Johnson declared conflict of interest and vacated council 
chambers. Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal. 
Mr. Esquibel moved to postpone to March 13, 2023, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to postpone 
failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Cook.  Voting “no” - Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, 
Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” - all 
members of the governing body  present in council chambers with the exception o f Mr. Esquibel 
voting “no” .  Public comment was made by: Dianna Madvig, Novo Benefits and Seth Lloyd.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel 
and Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal (#6310) 
 
 Preliminary Plat for Hill Heights Addition, 2 nd Filing, a replat of the north 132 feet of the 
east 120 feet of the east 190 feet of the SE 1/4 of Tract 36, Hill Heights Addition, City of Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming .  Mr. Cook moved to acknowledge the  Planning Commission’s 
recommendation to approve with staff recommendations 1-3 and the ability to include 10 lots in a 
similar orientation, seconded by Mr. Segrave.   Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Public comment was made by: Brandon Swain, owner and developer of property.  
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Rinne. 
 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Office of 
Homeland Security for project scoping of the Cheyenne 18 th Street Storm Sewer Interceptor 
Advance Assistance Project.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7687)   
   
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and BenchMark 
Engineers, PC for the Transfer Station Lift Station Upgrade or Replacement Project.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $88,425.00). (#7688)  
   
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Arts Cheyenne for 
cooperative interaction, art-based initiatives and continued endorsement of Arts Cheyenne as the 
official local arts agency.   Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $50,000.00, 
seconded by Mr.  Roybal. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Laybourn, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  Voting “no” - Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. 
Johnson and Dr. Rinne.  Public comment was made by: Bill Lindstrom, Arts Cheyenne.  Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave.  (#7689) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Goat Systems, LLC, 
for clarification and assurances of City develo pment and reimbursement processes.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#7690) 
   
[CA] Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Overstreet Homar & 
Kuker for legal services for the Contractor Licensing Board.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(in an amount not to exceed $199,999.99). (#7691) 
 
 Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Overstreet Homar & 
Kuker for legal services for the Board of Adjustment. Mr. White moved to approve in an amount 
not to exceed $7,200.00, seconded by Mr.  Esquibel.  Mr. White moved to amend by  substitute 
dated February 11, 2023, seconded by Mr.  Esquibel.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7692) 
   
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for 
EOD, SWAT, and CNU Operations and Extraterritorial Law Enforcement assistance and 
activities.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7693) 
   
Donation Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Union Pacific Railroad Company 
to accept a donation of selected fleet railroad cars. Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal. Mr. White moved to  remove “Attachment A” and replace with the list of 4 cars to be 
accepted by the City, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.   Mr. White moved to remove “Attachment C”, the Engineering Report & 
Proposal, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body.  Main motion as twice amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governi ng body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Collins and Mr. 
Segrave. (#7694) 
[CA] 2023-2025 Collective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne 
Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters – referred to Finance 
Committee.   
        
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Board of 
Public Utilities and McGee, Hearne & Paiz, LLP to provide financial and compliance auditing 
services for the fiscal years ending June 30, 2023 and 2024 (General Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understa nding between the City of Cheyenne and Granite Peak 
Development, LP, Clear Creek Land Company, LLC, Laramie Land Holdings, LLC, Cheyenne 
Logistics Hub, LLC, and Swan Ranch LLC to memorialize the payment of past fees by the parties 
and to restate prior Development Agreements – referred to Public Services Committee.      
         
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-12-23 for lift-equipped Transit vehicles for the City of Cheyenne, 
Transit Division.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Davey Coach, Sedalia, 
CO, in an amount not to exceed $1,282,573.99).  
         
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -11-23 for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group Inc. d/b/a Knife River for the 2023 City Overlay Part #2 project .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $2,794,156.69). (#7695) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-9-23 for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Welding 
& Machine Inc. for the Sanitation Division Transfer Station Welding Repairs project. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $108,041.54). (#7696) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-15-23 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Inman 
Roofing, Inc., for the Sanitation Transfer Station Reroof Project (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to 
Finance Committee.  
         
[CA] Consideration to purchase two (2) used SUV’s  for the City of Cheyenne, Compliance 
Department (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.   
         
[CA] Transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for Wyoming Horse Racing, LLC d/b/a Horse Palace, Lot 1, Block One, Swan Ranch Rail Park, 
16th Filing, Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by Poor Richard’s d/b/a Poor Richard’s).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
        
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing  to be held March 13, 2023 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute 
§ 15-1-402 exist for about 3.47 acres of land located at 908 Southwest Drive, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located west of Southwest Drive, south of I-80).   
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:38 p.m. 
         
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones,    
City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 8, 2023   