MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-03-13 | CLIP_ID: 898 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 898

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
March 13, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White . Absent: Dr. Mark 
Rinne.  Also present: Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on February 27, 2023.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried.  
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute § 15- 1-402 exist for about 3.47 acres of land located at 
908 Southwest Drive, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of Southwest Drive, south of I -
80).  The purpose of the  hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing.  Comment 
was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich.  
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County A-1 Agriculture and Rural Residential 
to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential-High Density for land located southwest of the intersection of 
Ridge Road and Holland Court (Postponed from February 27, 2023). Reporting for Public Services 
Committee, Mr. Cook advised there was no recommendation from the committee. Mr. Cook  
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Mr. Cook moved to amend 
by changing the County A -1 Agricultural and Rural Residential zoning classification to MR 
Medium Density Residential, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion to amend failed. Voting “yes” – 
Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, 
Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave. Main motion failed (super majority required).  Voting 
“yes” – Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. 
White. Vo ting “no” – Dr. Aldrich  and Mr. Laybourn.  Public comment was made by: Renee 
Fowler, Sam Weinstein, Vice President, Southeast Wyoming Builders Association, Jason Stephen, 
Bedrock Development, Roger Alexander, Amber Raegan, Steve Asky, JJ Chen, Wendy Volk, Jon 
Cecil, Elizabeth Stapel,  Dale Steen bergen, CEO/President, Greater Cheyenne Chamber of 
Commerce, Patrick Rudd, Peggy Escamilla, Rebecca  Murchie, Michael White, John Fender, 
President, Southeast Wyoming Builders Association, Janett e Wallace, Bedrock Development , 
Mike Sutton, Tasha Coryell, Min Ho, Jennifer Barley, CRMC, Rod Stone, Max Minnick, Pine 
Rock Realty,  Sharon Tuggle  and Ryan Whitehead .  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins,  Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 1.3 of the Unified Development Code 
(UDC), amending the enforcement regulations of the UDC and making other conforming 
amendments.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on thir d and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  
Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated March 6, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion 
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present .  Main motion as 
amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Comment was made 
by the following member of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn. (#4493) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business and CB Community 
Business to CB Co mmunity Business for land located between Old Happy Jack Road and 
Lincolnway, west of Missile Drive .  Mr. Cook  moved to approve on third and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. (#4494) 
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, tracts of 
land situated in portions of Sunny Side Addition and Sunnyside Addition Second Filing, Section 
12, T. 13 N., R. 67 W., 6 th P.M., Laramie County Wyoming, generally located east of Ridge Rd. 
between Charles St. and Pershing Blvd., west of Wills Rd. between Cheyenne St. and Pershing 
Blvd., and northeast of the intersection of Pershing Blvd. and Wills Rd.  Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” –  all 
members of the governing body present.  Comment was made by the following member of the 
governing body: Mayor Collins.  
 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the Zoning Classification from County MU Mixed Use to MUB Mixed- Use 
Business Emphasis and CB Community Business for tracts of land situated in portions of Sunny 
Side Addition and Sunnyside Addition Second Filing, Section 12, T. 13 N., R. 67 W., 6 th P.M., 
Laramie County, Wyoming, generally located east of Ridge Rd. between Charles St. and Pershing 
Blvd., west of Wills Rd. between Cheyenne St. and Pershing Blvd., and northeast of the  
intersection of Pershing Blvd. and Wills Rd.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body 
present. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Mayor Collins.  
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located west of Southwest Drive south of I-80 – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor 
– Mr. Cook) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from County LR Low -Density Residential to LR 
Low-Density Residential for land located west of Southwest Drive south of I -80 – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Repealing and recreating code provisions prohibiting 
drug paraphernalia as specified, and amending Section 9.20.020, Narcotics and Drugs, of Chapter 
9.20, Controlled Substances, of Title 9, Public Peace and Welfare, of the Municipal Code  of the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to eliminate municipal prohibitions governing marijuana – referred 
to Committee of the Whole. (Sponsors – Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Dell 
Range Addition, Sixth Filing, a replat of a portion of Tract 25, Dell Range Addition, City of 
Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southwest of the intersection of R idge Road and 
Holland Court) (postponed from February 27, 2023).  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the 
exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  Public comment was made by: Brad Emmons, AVI, agent 
for the applicant. (#6311) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts pursuant 
to W.S. § 16-4-502 – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the will of the Governing Body to prioritize and adequately 
fund specified downtown 6 th Penny Tax Maintenance and Improvement Projects – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)      
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding 
with Laramie County, Albany County, and the City of Laramie allocating Impact Assistance Funds 
resulting from an application to construct and operate a mine filed by the Gold King Corp. before 
the Industrial Siting Division – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave)     
   
[CA] 2023-2025 Collective Labor Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne 
Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7701) 
        
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City o f Cheyenne, Cheyenne Board of 
Public Utilities and McGee, Hearne & Paiz, LLP to provide financial and compliance auditing 
services for the fiscal years ending June 30, 2023 and 2024 (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $180,850.00). (#7702) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Granite Peak 
Development, LP, Clear Creek Land Company, LLC, Laramie Land Holdings, LLC, Cheyenne 
Logistics Hub, LLC, and Swan Ranch LLC to memorialize the payment of past fees by the parties 
and to restate prior Development Agreements . Mr. Cook moved to approve, seconded by Mr . 
Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated March 6, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main motion 
as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. Johnson. (#7703) 
 
 
Memorandum of Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Downtown      
Development Authority (DDA) to provide professional and administrative services.  Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. White advised the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at 
the March 6, 2023 Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code had 
been met.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr . Roybal.  Mr. White moved to amend 
by substitute dated March 9, 2023, seconded by Mr . Roybal .  Motion to amend by substitute  
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended by 
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comment 
was made by: Wendy Volk.  Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: 
Mr. Laybourn. [Clerk’s note: substitute is dated March 8, 2023] (#7704) 
 
[CA] Sponsorship Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HollyFrontier  Cheyenne 
Renewable Diesel Company, LLC to designate HollyFrontier as the presenting sponsor of 2023 
Superday, Superday Tour de Prairie and the Superday 5K walk/run (Revenue to the City) – referred 
to Finance Committee.   
         
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Umpires Association for the 
2023 and 2024 Softball seasons (Recreation Programs Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Right-of-Way License Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Bent 15, LLC for a 
portion of Lots 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, Block 413, Original City of Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming, known at 1509 Bent Avenue – referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and TDSi -  The Design 
Studio, inc., for the Gymnastics Facility Site Development, Engineering and Architectural Plans 
Project (Recreation Programs Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.   
   
[CA] Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Visionary Communications LLC 
for constructing, reconstructing, maintaining, operating, repairing, inspecting, surveying, altering, 
abandoning, replacing and/or removing fiber optic cable and related material at 514 West Fox 
Farm Road (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee.   
          
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Meals on Wheels of Cheyenne, Inc. 
for a portion of the property located at 2015 S. Greeley Hwy (General Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee.   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-15-23 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Inman 
Roofing, Inc., for the Sanitation Transfer Station Reroof Project (Solid Waste Fund).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $373,730.00). (#7705) 
         
[CA] Consideration to purchase two (2) used SUV’s for the City of Cheyenne, Compliance 
Department (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in 
an amount not to exceed $70,000.00).   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-13-23 for ten (10) portable litter fences for the City of Cheyenne 
Landfill.  (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.    
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-15-23 for 95 gallon and 65 gallon automated refuse carts for the 
City of Cheyenne Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
         
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Front Range Fire Apparatus 
for the purchase of one (1) BME Fire Trucks, LLC, BME Freightliner Model 34 Targhee Type 3, 
4x4 Fire Engine (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Renewal applications for existing City liquor licens es (retail, restaurant, limited retail, 
resort, bar and grill licenses, microbrewery, satellite distillery, special malt beverage and winery 
permits) filed with the City Clerk’s Office.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  
Mr. White moved to divide the question to consider renewal applications for Poor Richard’s and 
the Dog Haus separately, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion to divide the question carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Mr.  White moved to approve the renewal 
retail liquor license for Poor Richard’s and the renewal bar & grill liquor license for Dog Haus. 
Motion died due to lack of a second.  Main motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Mayor Collins and Mr. White. 
  
Appointments of Danica Mrozinsky, Amber Nuse and Jamie Winters to the Downtown 
Development Authority Board.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor 
Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
            
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Under other business: 
 
Mr. Johnson, having voted on the prevailing side and pursuant to City Code Chapter 2.04, 
moved to reconsider the vote taken at the February 27, 2023 City Council meeting for the Donation 
Agreement with Union Pacific Railroad Company to accept a donation of selected fleet rail road 
cars, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. Mr. Johnson moved to amend by substitute dated March 9, 2023, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  Main 
motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. 
Laybourn.  (#7694) 
 
 Mr. White, having voted on the prevailing side and pursuant to City Code Chapter 2.04, 
moved to reconsider the vote taken at the February 27, 2023 City Council meeting for the 
Resolution authorizing PaydHealth, LLC, to provide advocacy and financial case management 
services for eligible specialty prescription drugs through alternative funding programs effective 
July 1, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Mr. Johnson declared a conflict of interest and vacated 
council chambers.  Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present in council chambers.  Mr. White moved to postpone to March 27, 2023, seconded by 
Dr. Aldrich.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members present in council chambers. 
 
 Public comment was by the following individuals under other business: Jim Ridgeway, 
Emily Intlekofer, Black Dog Animal Rescue, Nick L umbreraz, Patrick Rudd, Amanda Ellis, 
Diamond in the Rough Pet Recovery, Shawn Giffin- Dean, Wendy Volk, Tony Brannon, Chelsea 
Fletcher, Maddi Ha ak, Black Dog Animal Rescue, Amy Buxton, Wayne Lilly, Joan Franklin, 
Serena Smith, Joe McCord, Linda Burt, Bethany Jacobs, Jason Dean, Gail Young, Alyssa Brown, 
Michael White, Dr. Tessa Win sch, Cheyenne Animal Shelter, Rick Redella,, Britney Tennant, 
CEO, Cheyenne Animal Shelter, Suzanne Jones and Richard Lysle.    
 
 The following members of the governing body made comments under other business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, and Mr. Johnson.  
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 9:58 p.m. 
         
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden,    
Deputy City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  March 23, 2023   