MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-04-24 | CLIP_ID: 903 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 903

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 24, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook,  Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne,  Tom Segrave and Jeff White. Absent: Scott 
Roybal. Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Upon request by Mr.  White, and pursuant to support 
received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Cook, item #18(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. 
Segrave moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regu lar Meeting of the Governing Body on April 10, 2023.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for disposal of real property and land exchange 
between the City of Cheyenne and Sun Valley Estates LLC (generally located south of Raleigh 
Drive).  There being no comments or input, and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor 
Collins closed the public hearing.   
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a bar and grill application filed with the City 
Clerk’s Office for FAFO Restaurant Group LLC d/b/a Dog Haus Restaurant, 3838 Atkins St., 
Cheyenne, WY.  Public comment was made by:  Marlena and Charles  Schultz. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook and Mr. Esquibel. 
There being no further comments or input, and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor 
Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for the City of Cheyenne’s Annual Action Plan 
Program Year 2023 prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development office.  
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich.  There being 
no further comments or input, and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed 
the public hearing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located west of Ridge Road, between Jackson Street and Douglas Street . Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Public comment was 
made by: Michael White.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Mayor Collins and Mr. Cook. 
  
  ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of MR Medium-Density Residential for land being 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne located at 5224 Ridge Road (west of Ridge Road, between 
Jackson Street and Douglas Street).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present.  
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich.   
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MR Medium -Density Residential to NR -2 
Neighborhood Residential - Medium Density for land located on Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Twin 22 
Subdivision.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr.  Segrave. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  present.  Public comment was made 
by: Brandon Swain, landowner.  Comment was made by the following member of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, 
within Title 2, Administration and Personnel, and Chapter 12.04, Streets, Sidewalks and 
Driveways Generally, within Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Municipal Code 
of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to amend provision Governing contract approvals.  Reporting 
for Finance Committee,  Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by  Mr. 
Esquibel.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing bod y present with the 
exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no”.  Comments were made  by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Ordinance No. 4429 updating the City of 
Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee Schedule.  Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr.  Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governi ng body  present. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Mayor Collins, Mr. 
Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16 -4-112 and 16 -4-113. Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6319)  
 
RESOLUTION – For naming the median which contains the Historic Airport Fountain, 
located to the east of the intersection of Central Avenue and East 8 th Avenue, to be known as 
Airport Fountain Park. Dr. Rinne moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Dr. Aldrich moved 
to amend the name by removing the word “Park”.  Motion died due to lack of a second.   Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the go verning body present with the exception of  Mr. 
Cook, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  Public comment was made by: Seth Lloyd, 
Milward Simpson and Michael White.  Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and 
Mr. Segrave. (#6320) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Department 
of Transportation for a Wyoming Rural Public Transportation Program Grant to provide the local 
match for operating funds for the City of Cheyenne for its Transit Program.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6321) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Water 
Development Commission Ground Water Exploratory Grants Program for the Borie Wellfield 
Expansion Project in the amount of $400,000.00 and authorizing the Director of the Board of 
Public Utilities to exec ute the application and all related documents  -- referred to Finance 
Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. WHITE)       
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving Water and/or Sanitary Sewer Service, by Outside User 
Agreement, for Advanced Communications Technology Inc, for the property at Lot 3, Block 1, 
North Range Business Park, 13 th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southeast of the 
intersection of Happy Jack Road and Bruns Way)  -- referred to Public Services Committee . 
(SPONSOR – MR. COOK) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the City of Cheyenne’s Annual Action Plan 2023, prepared by 
the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office  -- referred to Finance Committee . 
(SPONSOR – DR. ALDRICH)           
          
 Agreement for the Purchase, Sale and Exchange of Lands between the City of Cheyenne 
and Sun Valley Estates LLC for the exchange of real property, 15 ,365 SF, from the City to Sun 
Valley Estates LLC and 15 ,366 SF, from Sun Valley Estates LLC to the City, both having an 
appraised value of $100,000.00 and generally located south of Raleigh Drive. Mr. White moved 
to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave.   Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#7743) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding by and between Laramie County, the City of Cheyenne, 
the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities, the Cheyenne/Laramie County Board of Health, and the 
Cheyenne Regional Airport Board regarding the management of the ESRI Enterprise Agreement  
(Various City Funds) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$103,500.00). (#7744) 
 
[CA] Telecommunications Right -of-Way License and Use Agreement between the City of 
Cheyenne and AT&T Corp (Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7745) 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement  between the  City of Cheyenne and Union Telephone Company for 
telecommunications operations and tower maintenance (Revenue to the City) -- referred to Finance 
Committee.  
                  
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the  City of Cheyenne  and Laramie County 
School District #1 to provide transportation services for the Summer Rec Camp Program  
(Recreation Programs Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the  City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc., for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping, and other activities 
during the 2023 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration  (Revenue to the City) -- referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Carebridge Corporation for the Employee 
Assistance Program (EAP) (General Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI Professional 
Corporation for the design of the Dry Creek Dredging and Maintenance Project  (2019-2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI Professional 
Corporation for the Public Works Improvements Project (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) 
 -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Pipeline Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Samson Exploration, 
LLC for installation and maintenance of pipelines on City owned property  (Revenue to the City) 
-- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenn e and Climb Wyoming to 
provide employment opportunities for Climb Wyoming participants within the City of Cheyenne  
-- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding pursuant to Resolution No. 6316 between the City of 
Cheyenne and the Children’s Museum of Cheyenne for Infrastructure Enhancements  (2021 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7625  for the Agreement between the City of 
Cheyenne and the Wyoming Departm ent of Transportation (WYDOT) for a Wyoming Rural 
Public Transportation grant to assist in providing a local match for operating funds for the Transit 
Program for Fiscal Year 2023  (5311 WYDOT Grant) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried . 
(#7625) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #4 to Contract #7427 between the City of Cheyenne and 
Russell+Mills Studios Inc. for the East Cheyenne Community Park Master Site Development Plan 
(2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7606  between the City of Cheyenne and Western 
EcoSystems Technology for environmental services for the Dry Creek Dredging Project  (2019-
2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6837 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental for group 
dental insurance benefits for City employees  (Various City Funds) -- referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-16-23 for a City Network Operations Core Layer 3 Switch 
Replacement (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from High Country Workplace Technologies, Arvada, CO, in an amount not to 
exceed $70,777.39).                       
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-17-23 for the surplus sale of one (1) used reel grinder and one (1) 
used bedknife grinder (Revenue to the City). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid 
from L.L. Johnson Distributing Company, Denver, CO, in an amount not to exceed $10,000.00).   
                     
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-18-23 for a Professional Services Agreement between the City of 
Cheyenne and Vector Disease Control  International (VDCI) for Mosquito  Site Testing and 
Mosquito Larvicide Application (Weed & Pest Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) c arried (in 
an amount not to exceed $222,668.00). (#7746)    
                    
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-18-23 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and S & 
S Builders, LLC for the Greater Cheyenne Greenway, Greenway Commons Retaining Wall Re -
Construction (2017 and 2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $153,155.00). (#7747)    
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Econolite for  traffic 
controller cabinets, controllers and conflict monitors for the City of  Cheyenne Traffic Divi sion 
(2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) c arried (in an amount 
not to exceed $127,247.62).          
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-19-23 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and T C 
Solutions for the Cheyenne Junior League Storage Facility Construction Project  (Development 
Impact Fees and Cheyenne Community Recreation District Grant) -- referred to Finance 
Committee.     
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-21-23 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Miller 
& Sons Construction, Inc. for the 2023 Miscellaneous Concrete Project  (2019-2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and High West Energy  for 
installation of 3 Phase Power at the new Countryside & Whitney Fire Station  (2017 and 2021 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.  
  
[CA] Bar & grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Ace’s Range 
LLC d/b/a Ace’s Range, 1505 Pioneer Ave., Cheyenne, WY. Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. 
 
[CA] Winery permit application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Th e Blue Stem Wine 
House, LLC d/b/a The Blue Stem Wine House, 1909 Warren Ave., Cheyenne, WY.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the June 8, 2023 Wyoming Assoc iation of Municipalities Summer Convention Business 
Meeting to be held in Cody, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Appointment of Brian Casey to the International Fire Code Board of Appeals. Dr. Aldrich 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Johnson.   Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body  present with the exception of Mayor Collins  who did not vo te (Mayoral 
appointment). 
 
 Reappointment of Brandon VanTassell to the International Fire Code Board of Appeals. 
Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body  present with the exce ption of Mayor Collins  who did not vote 
(Mayoral appointment).         
 
There were no comments made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
There were no comments made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held May 8, 2023 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
for a restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Stella Polare LLC 
d/b/a L’Osteria Mondello, 1507 Stillwater Ave. Ste. D, Cheyenne, WY.   
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business: Mr. 
Johnson and Mr. White.  
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing bo dy, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:05 
 
 
         
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 29, 2023 
    