MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-05-08 | CLIP_ID: 906 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 906

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 8, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave  and Jeff White. 
Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne both declared a conflict of 
interest and vacated council chambers. Upon re quest by Dr. Aldrich , and pursuant to support 
received by M r. Cook and Mr. Esquibel, item # 23(d) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Upon request by Mr. White, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and M r. Cook, item 
#23(h) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Roybal moved to approve remaining items, 
seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present 
in council chambers. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 24, 2023.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a restaurant liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Stella Polare LLC d/b/a L’Osteria Mondello, 1507 Stillwater Ave. Ste. 
D, Cheyenne, WY.  Public comment was made by : Jasmin “Dave” Agovic, Owner of L’Osteria 
Mondello. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich 
and Mayor Collins. There being no further comments or input, and purpose of the hearing having 
been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located west of Ridge Road, between Jackson Street and Douglas Street . Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on thir d and final reading, seconded by Mr.  
Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4499) 
  
  ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of MR Medium-Density Residential for land being 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne located at 5224 Ridge Road (west of Ridge Road, between 
Jackson Street and Douglas Street) .  Mr. Cook moved to approve on thir d and final  reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.       
(#4500) 
  ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MR Medium -Density Residential to NR -2 
Neighborhood Residential - Medium Density for land located on Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Twin 22 
Subdivision.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on thir d and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4501) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, within 
Title 2, Administration and Personnel, and Chapter 12.04, Streets, Sidewalks and Driveways 
Generally, within Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to amend provision Governing contract approvals.  Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on thir d and final reading, seconded by Mr . Roybal.  
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4502) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Ordinance No. 4429 updating the City of 
Cheyenne’s Solid Waste Fee Schedule.  Mr. White moved to approve on thir d and final reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
with the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”.  (#4503) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Ordinance appropriating moneys for the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said 
City and fixing the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the 
said appropriation, all for t he Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2023 and ending June 30, 2024 – 
referred to Committee of the Whole. (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson)     
              
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Ordinance approving and establishing revised water and 
sewer rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, 
and septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne)     
              
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Ordinance amending the Official Zoning Map of the City 
of Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MR Medium -Density Residential to MUB 
Mixed-Use Business Emphasis for land located at Lot 29, Block 1, Eastridge – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)      
              
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Major Street Plan Official Map 2017, by 
updating the entire Major Street Plan Official Map with newly platted and built roads and with the 
most recent Master Transportation Plan (Connect 2045) and other recently adopted Master 
Transportation Amendments – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
              
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming Water 
Development Commission Ground Water Exploratory Grants Program for the Borie Wellfield 
Expansion Project in the amount of $400,000.00 and authorizing the Director of the Board of 
Public Utilities to execute the application and all related documents. Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6322) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving Water and/or Sanitary Sewer  Service, by Outside User 
Agreement, for Advanced Communications Technology Inc, for the property at Lot 3, Block 1, 
North Range Business Park, 13 th Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southeast of the 
intersection of Happy Jack Road and Bruns Way).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6323) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the City of Cheyenne’s Annual Action Plan 2023, prepared by 
the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Office .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6324) 
          
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Stadium 
View Addition, 4th Filing, a replat of Lots 8 and 9, Block 4, Stadium View Addition, 3 rd Filing, 
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection of Bevans 
Street and Grove Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)            
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Re gional Airport Board for the 
Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2023 and ending June 30, 2024 –  referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Rinne)              
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne to join with other political 
subdivisions of the State of Wyoming as a participant in the Wyoming Cooperative Liquid Assets 
Securities System (Wyoming CLASS) to pool funds for investment –  referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)              
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in the application for 
and acceptance of federal assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration under the 
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to assist in constructing a passenger boarding bridge connected to 
the passenger terminal – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne)              
 
[CA] Lease Agreement  between the  City of Cheyenne and Union Telephone Company for 
telecommunications operations and tower maintenance  (Revenue to the City) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#7751)  
                  
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the  City of Cheyenne  and Laramie County 
School District #1 to provide transportation services for the Summer Rec Camp Program  
(Recreation Programs Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7752)  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the  City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc., for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping, and other activities 
during the 2023 Cheyenne Frontier Days celebration (Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7753) 
 
 Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Carebridge  Corporation for the Employee 
Assistance Program (EAP) (General Fund).  Mr. Johnson declared a conflict of interest and vacated 
council chambers. Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Dr. Aldrich moved to 
amend by removing the AI component from Addendum B of the contract, seconded by Mr. Cook. 
Motion to amend carried .  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in council 
chambers with the exception of Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  Main m otion as 
amended carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present in council chambers. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook 
and Mr. Segrave. (#7754) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI Professional 
Corporation for the design of the Dry Creek Dredging and Maintenance Project  (2019-2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$199,601.50). (#7755) 
 
[CA] Professional Ser vices Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and AVI Professional 
Corporation for the Public Works Improvements Project  (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $265,290.00). (#7756) 
 
 Pipeline Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Samson Exploration, 
LLC for installation and maintenance of pipelines on City owned property (Revenue to the City). 
Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Mr. White moved to postpone to Ma y 
22, 2023, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body.  Comment s were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Mayor Collins and Mr. White.  
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Climb Wyoming to 
provide employment opportunities for Climb Wyoming participants within the City of Cheyenne.  
Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute 
dated May 8, 2023, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment was made by: Angi Lund, Business 
Liaison with Climb Wyoming.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich and Mayor Collins. (#7757) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding pursuant to Resolution No. 6316 between the City of 
Cheyenne and the Children’s Museum of Cheyenne for Infrastructure Enhancements  (2021 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $288,250.00). (#7758) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Regional 
Medical Center, and American Medical Response to establish the terms and conditions under 
which the parties will manage mutual care as it relates to community paramedicine and non -
emergency transport – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #4 to Contract #7427 between the City of Cheyenne and 
Russell+Mills Studios Inc. for the East Cheyenne Community Park Master Site Development Plan 
(2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $30,115.00). (#7427) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7606 between the City of Cheyenne and Western 
EcoSystems Technology for environmental services for the Dry Creek Dredging Project  (2019-
2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $72,988.00). (#7606)   
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6837 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental for group 
dental insurance benefits for City employees (Various City Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6837) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-19-23 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and T C 
Solutions for the Cheyenne Junior League Storage Facility Construction Project  (Development 
Impact Fees and Cheyenne Community Recreation District Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $144,406.00). (#7759)  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-21-23 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Miller 
& Sons Construction, Inc. for the 2023 Miscellaneous Concrete Project (2019-2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed 
$1,013,150.98). (#7760)  
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and High West Energy for 
installation of 3 Phase Power at the new Countryside & Whitney Fire Station (2017 and 2021 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount  not to 
exceed $120,000.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-22-23 for furnishing Bituminous Asphalt Hot Mix, Tack Oil, and 
Cold Mix on an annual basis, for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019- 2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
                     
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-23-23 for furnishing Aggregates on an annual basis for the City 
of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019- 2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -20-23 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Reiman Corp. for the Greater Cheyenne Greenway, Lions Park Greenway Spot Repair (2017 & 
2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Stryker for a Lifepak 15 
Monitor/Defibrillator for the Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department (Wyoming Department of Health, 
Community Emergency Medical Services Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Power Equipment Company 
for the repair of a Paving Machine for the Street and Alley Department (2019- 2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for FAFO 
Restaurant Group LLC d/b/a Dog Haus Restaurant, 3838 Atkins St., Cheyenne, WY.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
[CA] Designation of Official Voting Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the City of Cheyenne 
at the June 8, 2023 Wyoming Association of Municipalities Summer Convention Business 
Meeting to be held in Cody, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (Councilman Dr. 
Rinne, Official Voting Delegate; Mayor Collins, Alternate Voting Delegate). 
 
Urban Renewal Authority 2022 Annual Report.  Dr. Rinne moved to acknowledge receipt 
of the report, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Johnson.  
 
There were no comments made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business:  Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. White. 
 
Mr. Johnson moved to meet in executive session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4-
405(a)(iii), seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open 
to the public and stated there would be no action taken by the gover ning body as a result of the 
executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close 
of the executive session. The following staff members were in attendance: City Attorney, City 
Clerk, City Engineer and Mark Ste wart, Davis & Cannon LLP. (Clerk’s Note: executive session 
convened at 6:39 p.m.) 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:34 p.m. 
 
 
         
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  May 17, 2023 
    