MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-07-10 | CLIP_ID: 914 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 914

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 10, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave  and Jeff White. 
Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Cook, and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Roybal, items #21 and 22 were removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon 
request by Mr. Laybourn and pursuant to support received by D r. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave, item 
#26(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Dr. Rinne and pursuant to support 
received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Esquibel , item #28(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.   
Mr. Segrave moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June  26, 2023.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
              
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Creating Chapter 2.96, Ethical Obligati ons of Public 
Officials, Public Members and City Employees, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, specifying the ethical duties and obligations 
of Public Officials, Public Members and Employees of the City of Cheyenne  (Postponed from 
June 26, 2023).  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by M r. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend section 2.96.050(A)(2) to strike 
the words “Advocate or” and in section 2.96.060 to strike in the 1st sentence “or the removal of a 
public official or public member from his or her office or position”, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal  voting “no”. Mr. Cook moved to strike section 2.96.040(B ), 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal voting “no”.  Mr. Cook, moved to amend 
existing City Code section 2.52.010 to insert “in Chapter 2.96 of city code or” after the phrase 
“Unless otherwise provided”, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal  voting 
“no”.  Main motion as amended failed due to a tie vote.  Voting “yes” - Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, 
Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  Voting “no” Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, 
Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal. 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Chapter 15.20, National Electrical Code 
Adopted-Appendix K, International Building Code -Administrative Provisions Adopted, of Title 
15, Buildings and Construction, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
updating the Incorporated National Electrical Code Provisions as specifie d.  Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr . Johnson voting “no”.  Comment was 
made by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Johnson. (#4509) 
              
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Thomas Road and Ridge Road.  Mr. Cook 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body. (#4510) 
  
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of MR Medium-Density Residential for land being 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne located northwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Thomas 
Road and Ridge Road.  Mr.  Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4511) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located south of and adjacent to Rawlins Street, east of Cleveland Avenue .  Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4512) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of MR Medium-Density Residential for land being 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne located south of and adjacent to Rawlins Street, east of Cleveland 
Avenue.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4513) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural for land being annexed to the 
City of Cheyenne located southwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Holland Court and Ridge 
Road.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4514) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial and MR Medium -Density 
Residential to MR Medium -Density Residential for land located on Lots 14 and 15, Christensen 
Park.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4515)  
    
 
 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 2.4.2 Annexations of the Unified 
Development Code, and creating Section 2.2.8, Assigned Zoning, clarifying City zone assignment 
processes in concert with annexations and when removing City zone districts .  Mr. Cook moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. (#4516) 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 2.2.1.c.5 and 2.2.2.c.6 of the Unified 
Development Code (UDC), amending protest petitions for zoning map amendments and planned 
developments.  Mr. Cook advised there was no recommendation from Public Services Committee.  
Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Dr. Rinne moved 
to amend by increasing the required percentage of signatures of adjacent landowners  for protest 
petitions from 20% to 50%, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to amend failed.  Voting “no” – all 
members of the governing body.  Main m otion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. Public comments 
were made by: Jason Stephen, Bedrock Development, Dan Dorsch, Director, Habitat for Humanity 
of Laramie County, Rebecca Merchie, Elizabeth Stapel , Peggy Escamilla  and Michael White. 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich  and Dr. 
Rinne. (#4517) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating Chapter 8.68, Camping in Public Places, of Title 
8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Prohibiting the 
Act of Camping on Public Property as Specified.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Public comments were made by:  Del Scholfield, 
Floyd’s Truck Center, Robert McDaniels,  Trails End Homeowners Association, David Dillon, 
McCandless Truck Center, Billie Hopka, Chris Taveira and Cathy Deister, Trails End. Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. White. [Clerk’s note: Mr. Esquibel left the meeting after the vote on 
this item at 7:30 p.m.] 
   
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from HI Heavy Industrial, AG Agricultural and 
County A -2 to LI Light Industrial for land located west of Burlington Trail and south of and 
adjacent to HR Ranch Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)  
 
  RESOLUTION – Approving water services, by outside user agreement, for properties to 
be known as Ironhorse 3rd Filing, Laramie County, Wyoming generally located southeast of West 
Riding Club Road and Hynds Boulevard (Postponed from June 26, 2023).  Mr. Cook advised there 
was no recommendation from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded 
by Dr. Rinne.  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne. Voting “no” 
– Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  Public comment was made 
by: Matt Kaufman, representing Ironhorse Capital, Michael White and Casey Palma, Palma Land 
Planning. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, 
Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending Resolution #6094, the City of Cheyenne Comprehensive 
Consolidated Plan 2020-2024 and 2020 Annual Action Plan, prepared by the Cheyenne Housing 
and Community Development Office.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6333)   
  
 RESOLUTION – Pursuant to Wyoming Statute § 15- 9-106 Finding and Declaring Jolly 
Rogers and Expanded Downtown in the City of Cheyenne as blight and authorizing the 
redevelopment thereof.  Mr. Cook advised there was no recommendation from Public Services 
Committee. Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn 
voting “no”.  Public comment was made by:  Dan Dorsch, Director, Habitat for Humanity of 
Laramie County.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. (#6334) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Sunrise 
Hills North Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Tract 25, Dell Range Addition, Laramie County, 
Wyoming (located northwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Thomas Road and Ridge Road).  
Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present. (#6335) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Christensen Park, 2 nd Filing, a Replat of Lot 15, Christensen Park, City of Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located northwest of the intersection of Cribbon Avenue and Dodge Ct.).  Mr. 
Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present. (#6336) 
  
 RESOLUTION – To initiate annexation proceedings by the City of Cheyenne for an area 
generally located west of Interstate 25,  north of State Highway 210, east of Roundtop Road, and 
south of Horsecreek Road, commonly known as Francis E. Warren Air Force Base, Wyoming.  
Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated 
July 3, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comment was made by: Michael White.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor  Collins, Mr. 
Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. (#6337) 
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for federal fund ing through the Transportation Alternatives Program administered by the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of construction for a Greenway path for 
pedestrians and bicycles from the Sun Valley Open Space into Kiwanis Community Park.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6338) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying Planning Commission action amending the Future Land Use 
maps of PlanCheyenne changing the land use category from Mixed-Use Residential to Mixed-Use 
Employment for property generally located west of Burlington Trail and south of and adjacent to 
HR Ranch Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)  
       
 Memorandum of Understanding between the Cheyenne Historic Preservation Board and 
the Cheyenne Masonic Building Association regarding the fulfillment of the match requirement 
for the Wyoming State Historic Preservation Office, Certified Local Government Gra nt awarded 
to the Cheyenne Historic Preservation Board for a building assessment on the Masonic Temple .  
Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present.  Public comment  was mad e by: Kelley Davis, 
representing Cheyenne Masonic Building Association.  Comments were made  by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Roybal.  (#7789)  
 
[CA] Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Gysel Whitney, LLC for 
the future Storey Boulevard Right-of-Way (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund).  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $555,780.00). (#7790)  
 
[CA] Utility Easement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Board of Public 
Utilities for installation and maintenance of a water main on City owned property .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#7791) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Summit Engineering 
for Engineering Design for the Sun Valley to Kiwanis Park Greenway Connector  (2021 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Intergovernmental Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School 
District #1 concerning joint use of facilities – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -27-23 for the Transfer Station Lift Station Package and 
Equipment (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.    
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -28-23 for the Compost Facility Waste Hauling Project (Solid 
Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Wyoming  
Downs OTB14, LLC d/b/a Wyoming Downs OTB14, LLC, 1345 Dell Range Blvd., Cheyenne, 
WY.  Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. Public comment was made by: Traci Lacock, legal 
counsel for Wyoming Downs OTB14, LLC.  Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Dr. Rinne.  
 
There were no comments made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made that the July 24, 2023 City Council meeting will be held in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference 
meeting at Noon instead of 6:00 p.m. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business:  Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. Johnson. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:54 p.m. 
 
        
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 19, 2023 