MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-07-24 | CLIP_ID: 916 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 916

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 24, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 12:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson (via Zoom), Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and 
Jeff White. Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Rinne, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave, item #20(b) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Segrave 
moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on Ju ly 10, 2023.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
              
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating Chapter 8.68, Camping in Public Places, of Title 
8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, Prohibiting the 
Act of Camping on Public Property as Specified.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. 
Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to 
amend by substitute dated July 17, 2023, seconded by Mr . Laybourn. Motion to amend by 
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  with the exception of Mr. 
Johnson voting “no”.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”.  Comments were made by 
the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins and Mr. Laybourn. 
(#4518)  
   
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from HI Heavy Industrial, AG Agricultural and 
County A -2 to LI Light Industrial for land located west of Burlington Trail and south of and 
adjacent to HR Ranch Road .  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by D r. 
Aldrich.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Defining the Terms and Conditions of Employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for the Fiscal Year 2023- 2024 – referred to 
Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. White)      
              
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating Secti on 2.08.060, City Employees and 
Immediate Family Members; Conflict of Interest Policy, of Chapter 2.08, City Officers and 
Employees Generally, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, requiring the promulgation of a Conflict of Interest Policy for employees 
of the City of Cheyenne as specified and making a conforming amendment to Section 2.52.010, 
Regulations and Benefits  – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsors – Mr. Cook, Mr. 
Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal)     
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating a new Section 15.50.070, Neglected Structure, 
of Chapter 15.50, Historic Design Guideline, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Johnson)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying Planning Commission action amending the Future Land Use 
maps of PlanCheyenne changing the land use category from Mixed-Use Residential to Mixed-Use 
Employment for property generally located west of Burlington Trail and south of and adjacent to 
HR Ranch Road.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6339) 
 
RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the Board of Public 
Utilities’ application to the Wyoming State Loan and Investment Bo ard for funding through the 
Local Government Project ARPA Grants Program for the Drinking Water Disinfection System 
Conversion Project in the amount of $4,463,000.00 and authorizing the Director of the Board of 
Public Utilities to execute the application and all related documents (Sponsors – Mr. Johnson, Dr. 
Rinne and Mr. White).  Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White advised the item was 
reviewed under other items for the agenda at the July 17, 2023 Finance Committee meeting, 
therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded 
by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6340) 
 
RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of a Local Government Project ARPA Grant 
Application to the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body for the City 
of Cheyenne for the purpose of land acquisition of blighted property on 15 th Street for the 
development of Low-Income Housing (Sponsor – Mr. White).  Mr. White advised the item was 
reviewed under other items for the agenda at the July 17, 2023 Finance Committee meeting, 
therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met. Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded 
by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public 
comment was made by: Dan Dorsch, Director, Habitat for Humanity of Laramie County. (#6341) 
  
RESOLUTION – Whereby the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne authorizes a 
Special Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Election to be held October 18, 
2023, as provided by Wyoming Statute § 15- 9-217(b) which, upon affirmative majority vote of 
the qualified voters within the district, will authorize a Special Assessment of twenty (20) mills 
upon real property within the district, excluding real property used exclusively for residential 
purposes, for a period of four (4) years (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn and  Mr. White).  Mr. White 
advised the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the July 17, 2023 Finance 
Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met.  Mr. White moved 
to adopt, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated July 20, 2023, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn. (#6342) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body to request the State of 
Wyoming to reconsider the 2022 House Bill 0148, Creating a Special Animal Control District  – 
referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson)    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body to request the State of 
Wyoming to reconsider the decriminalization of cannabis and reform to the Wyoming Controlled 
Substance Act – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson)    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Declaring that the City of Cheyenne has agreed that covenants restricting 
application of Waterwise Landscaping or requiring installation of Water -Intense Landscaping 
mandate irresponsible use of water resources and requesting the State Legislative Committees and 
State Legislature review, consider, and adopt  modifications to State Statutes to nullify covenants 
that restrict Waterwise Landscaping  or require installation of Water -Intense Landscaping – 
referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Johnson)     
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Directing City staff to research and provide a report regarding the 
property currently utilized as a detention pond at Highland Village Subdivision – referred to Public 
Services Committee.  (Sponsors – Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White)    
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Summit Engineering 
for Engineering Design for the Sun Valley to Kiwanis Park Greenway Connector  (2021 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$108,085.00). (#7796) 
 
 Intergovernmental Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County School 
District #1 concerning joint use of facilities . Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by D r. 
Aldrich.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated July 14, 2023, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main 
motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Mayor Collins. (#7797) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Office  and Laramie 
County for housing prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center (General Fund) – referred 
to Finance Committee.    
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO) and Stantec Consulting Services, Inc for the Safe Routes to School 
Plan Update (MPO, TAP and Safe Routes to School Funds) – referred to Finance Committee.       
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives and Laramie County 
for Youth Crisis Shelter Services (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee.         
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Rythm EFX, LLC, for 
Cheyenne Depot Plaza Christmas Light Design and Installation Project (2021 Specific Purpose 
Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Tru-Grit Land Development, 
LLC, to outline the responsibilities for public infrastructure improvements for the Harmony Valley 
Subdivision (2023-2026 1% Sales Tax Funding and Private Development Funds) – referred to 
Finance Committee.       
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Rotary Club 
Foundation regarding donation of Rotary Park to the City of Cheyenne – referred to Public 
Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -27-23 for the Transfer Station Lift Station Package and 
Equipment (Solid Waste Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from 
Advanced Pump and Equipment d/b/a Russell Industries, Casper, WY, in an amount not to exceed 
$127,451.40).   
 
 Consideration of Bid #E -28-23 for the Compost Facility Waste Hauling Project (Solid 
Waste Fund).  Mr. White moved to accept  the bid from Pine Bluffs Gravel and Excavating, Pine 
Bluffs, WY, in an amount not to exceed $112,900.00, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of t he governing body. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Dr. Rinne.    
 
 Appointments of JC Manalo to the Public Transit Board and Justin Huntley to the Housing 
and Community Development Advisory Council. Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Dr. 
Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the 
exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
There were no comments made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
There were no comments made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 12:19 p.m. 
 
        
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 28, 2023 