MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-08-14 | CLIP_ID: 917 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 917

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 14, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 12:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal and Tom Segrave.  Absent: Pete Laybourn and 
Jeff White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda . Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on Ju ly 24, 2023.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
               
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from HI Heavy Industrial, AG Agricultural and 
County A -2 to LI Light Industrial for land located west of Burlington Trail and south of and 
adjacent to HR Ranch Road .  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#4519) 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Defining the Terms and Conditions of Employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for the Fiscal Year 2023 -2024.  Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr. Esquibel moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal. 
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.     
              
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating Section 2.08.060, City Employees and 
Immediate Family Members; Conflict of Interest Policy, of Chapter 2.08, City Officers and 
Employees Generally, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, requiring the promulgation of a Conflict of Interest Policy for employees 
of the City of Cheyenne as specified and making a conforming amendment to Section 2.52.010, 
Regulations and Benefits .  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. 
Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating a new Section 15.50.070, Neglected Structure, 
of Chapter 15.50, Historic Design Guideline, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming. Mr. Cook advised there was no 
recommendation from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson. Dr. Rinne moved to postpone to August 28, 2023, seconded by 
Mr. Roybal.  Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the governing body present 
with the exception of Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Johnson voting “yes”.  Main motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” all members of the governing body present. Public comments were made by: Cathy Tabor-
Douglas, Historic Preservation Board and Michael White.  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave.   
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Submitting to the qualified property owners of real 
property within the boundaries of the Chey enne Downtown Development Authority District of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, at a 
Special Election on Wednesday, October 18, 2023, the following question: ‘Shall a Special 
Assessment of twenty (20) m ills be levied upon the assessed value of real  property within the 
boundaries of the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District, excluding real property 
used exclusively for residential purposes, for a period of four (4) years pursuant to the provisi ons 
of Wyo. Stat. § 15 -9-217(b) for the purposes of (1) Landscaping or maintenance of public areas; 
(2) Planning or management of development or improvement activities; (3) Promotion of public 
events; and (4) Activities in support of business recruitment a nd development?’ – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)  
  
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from Frontier Mall PUD - Planned Unit Development 
(Ordinance No. 3132) to CB - Community Business for land located at Lot 7B, Block 1, Frontier 
Mall – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)     
              
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development - 
Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan and Section 5.6.2 PUD - Planned Unit Development 
District of the Unified Development Code, amending Ordinance No. 4286 by modifying certain 
standards of the adopted district, Planned Unit Development (PUD), for Sweetgrass (located 
southeast of the intersection of College Drive and Avenue C) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating Chapter 8.68, Limiting the use of Plastic Single 
Use Carryout Bags, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, regulating the use of s ingle use plastic bags as s pecified – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsors– Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal)       
 
 RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body to request the State of 
Wyoming to reconsider the 2022 House Bill 0148, Creating a Special Animal Control District .  
Mr. Esquibel advised there was no recommendation from Finance Committee.  Mr. Esquibel 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr . Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. Public comment was made by: Gunnar Malm, Laramie County 
Commissioner.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mayor Collins, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. (#6343) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body to request the State of 
Wyoming to reconsider the decriminalization of cannabis and reform to the Wyoming Controlled 
Substance Act.  Mr. Cook advised there was no recommendation from Public Services Committee. 
Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present  with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave voting “no” . 
Public comment was made by Zach Padilla, Teton County and Cathy Deister.  Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. (#6344)   
 
 RESOLUTION – Declaring that the City of Cheyenne has agreed that covenants restricting 
application of Waterwise Landscaping or requiring installation of Water -Intense Landscaping 
mandate irresponsible use of water resources and requesting the State Legislative Committees and 
State Legislature review, consider, and adopt  modifications to State Statutes to nullify covenants 
that restrict Waterwise Landscaping  or require installation of Water -Intense Landscaping.  Mr. 
Cook advised there was no recommendation from Public S ervices Committee.  Mr. Cook moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  Public comment 
was made by: Gummar Malm, Laramie County Commissioner, Michael White, Cathy Deister and 
Seth Lloyd. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, 
Mayor Collins, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Segrave. (#6345)  
 
 RESOLUTION – Directing City staff to research and provide a report regarding the 
property currently utilized as a detention pond at Highland Village Subdivision.  Mr. Cook moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated August 1, 2023, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present.  Dr. Rinne moved to delete last 2 “Whereas” clauses, seconded by Dr. 
Aldrich.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
Main motion , as amended, failed.  Voting “ no” – all members of the governing body present .  
Public comment was made by: Cathy Deister.  Comments were made by the following members 
of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. 
Segrave. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16- 4-112 & 16- 4-113 – referred to Finance Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. White)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the establishment of 
an Urban Renewal Authority Fiduciary Fund – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. 
White)  
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Office and Larami e 
County for housing prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center (General Fund) .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7800) 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO) and Stantec Consulting Services, Inc for the Safe Routes to School 
Plan Update (MPO, TAP and Safe Routes to School Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(in an amount not to exceed $282,523.62). (#7801)   
     
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives and Laramie County 
for Youth Crisis Shelter Services (Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in 
an amount of $86,000.00).  (#7802)     
     
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Rythm EFX, LLC, for 
Cheyenne Depot Plaza Christmas Light Design and Installation Project (2021 Specific Purpose 
Option Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$127,480.60). (#7803) 
 
[CA] Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Tru-Grit Land Development, 
LLC, to outline the responsibilities for public infrastructure improvements for the Harmony Valley 
Subdivision (2023-2026 1% Sales Tax Funding and Private Development Funds) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $238,289.41). (#7804) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Rotary Club 
Foundation regarding donation of Rotary Park to the City of Cheyenne .  Mr . Cook moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated August 7, 2023, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute failed. Voting “no” – all members of 
the governing body present.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated August  8, 2023, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present. Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. Public comment was made by: Brent Lathrop, President, 
Rotary Foundation.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins and Mr. Johnson. 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Federal Transit Administration to 
fund Transit Operations (FTA Section 5307 Grant) – referred to Finance Committee.     
  
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wilson & Company, 
Inc. for consultant services for the Pershing Blvd. and Windmill Rd. Intersection and Signal Design 
Project (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.            
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Design Wor kshop, 
Inc. for the City of Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan Project ( American Rescue Plan 
Federal Recovery Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment to Contract No. 7521 between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for 
Animal Control Services (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
There were no comments made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Notice of Emergency Procurement.  In accordance with the City of Cheyenne Purchasing 
Policy, an Emergency Procurement has been authorized by Mayor Collins for the Emergency 
Pioneer Park Sanitary Sewer Repair. The emergency repair has been authorized to Master 
Mechanical, for a total of $78,216.10. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held on August 28, 2023 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, to receive comments and input for the West Downtown Urban Renewal Plan and Project 
as required by Wyoming Statute § 15-9-109. 
 
Public comment was made by the following individual under other business: Seth Lloyd. 
  
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Johnson. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:20 p.m. 
   
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 23, 2023 