MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-08-28 | CLIP_ID: 919 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 919

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 28, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White .  
Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda . Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 14, 202 3.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
               
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for the West 
Downtown Urban Renewal Plan and Project as required by Wyoming Statute § 15- 9-109.  There 
being no comments or input, and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins  closed 
the public hearing. 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Defining the Terms and Conditions of Employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for the Fiscal Year 2023 -2024.  Reporting for 
Finance Committee, Mr.  White moved to approve on thir d and final reading, seconded by Mr . 
Esquibel. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4520)  
              
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating Section 2.08.060, City Employees and 
Immediate Family Members; Conflict of Interest Policy, of Chapter 2.08, City Officers and 
Employees Generally, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, requiring the promulgation of a Conflict of Interest Policy for employees 
of the City of Cheyenne as specified and making a conforming amendment to Section 2.52.010, 
Regulations and Benefits.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. (#4521)  
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Creating a new Section 15.50.070, Neglected Structure, 
of Chapter 15.50, Historic Design Guideline, of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on thir d and 
final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson. Mr. Laybourn moved to postpone to September 11, 2023, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” all members of the governing 
body. Public comments were made by: Milward Simpson , Historic Preservation Board , Kathy 
Scigliano and Maeke Ermarth.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Roybal. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Submitting to the qualified property owners of real 
property within the boundaries of the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, excluding real property used exclusively for residential purposes, at a 
Special Election on Wednesday, October 18, 2023, the following question: ‘Shall a Special 
Assessment of twenty (2 0) mills be levied upon the assessed value of real  property within the 
boundaries of the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District, excluding real property 
used exclusively for residential purposes, for a period of four (4) years pursuant to the provisions 
of Wyo. Stat. § 15 -9-217(b) for the purposes of (1) Landscaping or maintenance of public areas; 
(2) Planning or management of development or improvement activities; (3) Promotion of public 
events; and (4) Activities in support of business recruitment and development?’.  Mr. White moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. Comment was made by the following member of the governing 
body: Mr. Laybourn. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from Frontier Mall PUD - Planned Unit Development 
(Ordinance No. 3132) to CB - Community Business for land located at Lot 7B, Block 1, Frontier 
Mall).  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment was made by: Shane Hansen, 
agent for the applicant, Steil Surveying Services . Comment was made by the following member 
of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Pursuant to Section 2.2.2 Planned Development -  
Regulating Plan or Development Master Plan and Section 5.6.2 PUD - Planned Unit Development 
District of the Unified Development Code, amending Ordinance No. 4286 by modifying certain 
standards of the adopted district, Planned Unit Development (PUD), for Sweetgrass (located 
southeast of the inte rsection of College Drive and Avenue C) .  Mr. Cook moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating Chapter 8.68, Limiting the use of Plastic Single 
Use Carryout Bags, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, regulating the use of single use plastic bags as specified.  Mr. White advised there was 
no recommendation from Finance Committee.  Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson. Mr. Johnson moved to amend by substitute dated August 25, 2023,  
seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Dr. Rinne moved to amend Section 3 by updating the effective date to July 1, 
2024, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion to amend carried with all members of the governing body 
voting “yes” with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  Dr. 
Rinne moved to amend Section 8.68.030 by deleting “environmental service fee” from the title 
and deleting subsections B-E, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion to amend failed due to a tie vote.  
Voting “yes” – Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – 
Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave. Main motion as amended 
by substitute, as amended failed. Voting “yes” – Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. 
Roybal.  Voting “no” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. Public 
comment was made by: Kathy Russell, Jacob Was serberger, Brian Pixley, Richard Lyle, Nancy 
Loomis, Mark Moody, John Young, Gail Young, Marilyn Burton, Dale  Steenburgen, Greater 
Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce, Evan Williams, Cathy Deister, Maeke Ermarth, Doug Powell, 
Kathy Scigliano, Darryl Orr, Adrian Crader, Kathy Selock, Steve Borin, Alan Shobin and Zachary 
Taylor.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, 
Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  
 
Following a brief recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 7:47 p.m. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 5.8.2.h of the Unified Development 
Code (UDC), amending Manufactured Homes on Single Platted Properties or Tracts – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 15.08.031, Building Permit Fees -
Exceptions for Incentivization Program, of Chapter 15.08, International Building Code Adopted, 
of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to create 
incentives for attainable housing and historic preservation – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson and Mr. White)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16- 4-112 & 16- 4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6346) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the establishment of 
an Urban Renewal Authority Fiduciary Fund.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6347) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the acceptance of a Federal Emergency Management 
Agency FY 2022 Assistance of Firefighters Grant in the amount of $387,043.63 and authorizing 
the contribution of $38,704.37 from the Fifth and Sixth Penny funds in support of this program, 
for the purpose of purchasing breathable air fill stations (FEMA AFG Grant) – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)  
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the conversion of a portion of Dutcher Ball Fields located at 
4200 Converse Avenue from perpetual public outdoor recreation use and committing to purchase 
and encumber one additional replacement property to be deed restricted for perpetual public 
outdoor recreation use pursuant to the requirements set forth in the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund Act – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn)   
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the West Downtown Urban Renewal Plan and West 
Downtown Urban Renewal Project pursuant to Wyoming Statute § 15- 9-110 – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Johnson and Mr. White)   
  
[CA] RESOLUTION – To accept and approve the federally funded Dry Creek Drainage Master 
Plan Update submitted by GLM Design Group – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor 
– Mr. Cook)   
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Federal Transit Administration to 
fund Transit Operations (FTA Section 5307 Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount of $2,418,763.00). (#7810) 
  
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wilson & Company, 
Inc. for consultant services for the Pershing Blvd. and Windmill Rd. Intersection and Signal Design 
Project (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $180,182.00). (#7811) 
            
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Design Workshop, 
Inc. for the City of Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan P roject (American Rescue Plan 
Federal Recovery Funds).  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $274,845.00, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated August 21, 2023, 
seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. (#7812) 
 
Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization, and TischlerBise for the Laramie County Roads Impact Fee Study (MPO 
Funds).  Mr. White advised the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the August 
21, 2023, Finance Committee meeting, therefore , provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been 
met.  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $97,840.00, seconded by Dr. 
Aldrich.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#7813) 
 
Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming  Department of 
Transportation for Project ARSCT N561 A02, US 30/Pershing Blvd. to Christensen Road, 
Cheyenne Streets, Laramie County (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Ta x Fund and 2017 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund).   Mr. White advised the item was reviewed under other items for the 
agenda at the August 21, 2023, Finance Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of 
City Code have been met.  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $2,823,800.00, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich .  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.         
(#7814) 
 
[CA] Real Estate Purchase Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Trace G. Lewark and 
Mary J. Lewark for the purchase of real property located at 700 Gettysburg Drive, City of 
Cheyenne, consisting of approximately 189,921.6 square feet, more or less and associated 
easement documents (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Contract between the City of  Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie 
County to provide services for juveniles appearing in the Laramie County  Circuit Court and the 
Municipal Court of the City of Cheyenne for supervised probation, diversion, and the coordination 
of drug and alcohol services (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Volunteers of 
American Northern Rockies, Alcohol Receiving Center, to provide alcohol and drug detoxification 
services (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie 
County to provide services to various community programs (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Safe Harbor to 
provide a safe and secure environment to families who have been affected by abuse (General Fund) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ayers Associates Inc 
for the West Crow Creek Greenway Plan (MPO Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding betwee n the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Housing 
Network, Inc. to provide financial assistance relating to the construction of affordable housing for 
the Robin’s Point Apartments Housing Project (Housing Loans Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Amendment to Contract No. 7521 between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for 
Animal Control Services (Revenue to the City) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount of $130,800.00). (#7521) 
 
Re-appointments of Wendy Soto and JC Manalo to the Housing and Community 
Development Advisory Council.  Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins 
who did not vote (mayoral appointments).   
 
Appointment of Heather Hirsch to the Mayor’s Council for People with Disabilities.  D r. 
Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Laybourn. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral 
appointment).   
 
There were no comments made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
There were no comments made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held on September 11, 2023 at 6:00 
p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting, to receive public comments and input relating to the Federally Funded Dry 
Creek Drainage Master Plan Update. 
Announcement was made that due to City offices being closed for the Labor Day holiday 
on Monday, September 4, 2023, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will 
instead be held in the Municipal Building, Room 104, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
and via electronic conference meetings as follows:   Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, 
September 5, 2023 at Noon and Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday, September 6, 
2023 at Noon. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:58 p.m. 
   
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 2, 2023 