MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-09-25 | CLIP_ID: 923 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 923

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
September 25, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White .  
Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Upon request by Mr . Roybal , and pursuant to support 
received by Mr.  Esquibel and Mr. Segrave, item #11 was removed from the Consent Agenda .  
Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Johnson and Dr. Aldrich, 
item #20(b) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Segrave moved to approve remaining 
items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 11 , 2023.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
               
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 15.08.031, Building Permit Fees -
Exceptions for Incentivization Program, of Chapter 15.08, International Building Code Adopted, 
of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to create 
incentives for attainable housing and historic preservation. Reporting for Public Services 
Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Public comment was made 
by: Stephanie Lowe,  local P reservation Specialist and Dan Dorsch, Habitat for Humanity of 
Laramie County. (#4525) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis to P 
Public District for land located at Lot 1, Block 1, Back 40 Subdivision, Third Filing.  Mr. Cook 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body.  Comment was made by the following member of the governing 
body: Mr. Cook.  
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MUB Mixed-Use 
Business for land located on Lots 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, Block 1, Hitching Post Plaza, 3rd Filing.  Mr. 
Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend 
by substitute dated September 14, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Public comment was made by: Casey 
Palma, Palma Land Planning, agent for the owner.  Comment was made by the following member 
of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending certain Sections of Chapter 13.20, Wastewater 
Treatment and Disposal of Title 13, Public Services of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, regarding wastewater treatment and disposal.  Mr. Cook moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating Section 12.04.240, Mobile Storage Containers 
on Public Right -of-Way; Permit Required, of Chapter 12.04, Streets, Sidewalks and Driveways 
Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming and making a conforming amendment as specified – referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsors – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2024 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§16- 4-112 & 16-4-113.  Reporting for Finance Committee, 
Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Mr. Roybal moved to amend by removing 
the proposed increase of $720 from the City Council line item, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion 
to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  Motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body.  Public comment was made by: Michael White.  Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. 
Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal. (#6352) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Shining 
D North at Sweetgrass, a replat of all of Block 15 (Lot 1 thru 8 inclusive), and Open Space Tract 
AA, and all of Lot 1, B lock 16, Sweetgrass, 7 th Filing, and a portion of adjacent  rights-of-way, 
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of Sweetgrass  Drive and s outh of E 
College Drive).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6353)   
  
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for R and 
R at Sweetgrass, a replat of all of Lots 1, 2, & 3, and Tract T , Block 8, Sweetgrass, 2nd Filing, and 
a portion of adjacent rights -of-way, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (l ocated 
southeast of the intersection of Sweetgrass Drive and E College Drive).  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute map dated September 11, 
2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute m ap carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute map carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Public comment was made by: Casey Palma, Palma 
Land Planning, agent for the owner.  Comment was made by the following member of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich. (#6354)    
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Hitching Post Plaza, 3rd Filing, a replat of Lot 3, Hitching Post Plaza, 2nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Lincolnway and west of Paul Smith Way).  Mr. Cook 
moved to adopt, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute map dated 
September 11, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute map carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute map 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6355)    
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the designation of the 
High Plains Arboretum as a State Historic Site by the Wyoming State Legislature .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6356) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate 
in northwest Cheyenne generally located north of Dell Range Boulevard and west of Powderhouse 
Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors  – Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Segrave, a nd Mr. 
White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15- 1-402 for a City-
initiated annexation of tracts of land in Township 14 North, Range 67 West of the 6 th p.m. for an 
area generally located west of Interstate 25, north of State Highway 210, east of Roundtop Road, 
and south of Horse Creek Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave)      
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the will of the Governing Body for the temporary installation 
of additional traffic control devices at specified locations along Gardenia Drive to combat the 
serious problem of speeding vehicles – referred to Public Services Committ ee. (Sponsors – Mr. 
Cook, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave)       
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Requiring the study and submittal of a report to the Governing Body 
regarding vehicles violating posted speed limits on the City’s roadways and vehicles disregarding 
traffic signals and running red lights  – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsors – Mr. 
Cook, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave)      
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Housing Authority to provide 
supportive senior services (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $100,000.00). (#7828)      
 
 Lease agreement between the City of Cheyenne and GBP, LLC for the property located at 
6725 Faith Drive ( Recreation Programs Fund ). Mr. White moved to approve in an amount of 
$162,000.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated September 
21, 2023, seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body.  Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook and Mr. Laybourn. (#7829) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Creative Outdoor for construction of and 
placement of benches, shelters, and concrete pads within and along bus routes, upon which 
advertising may be sold and establishing a fee for use of the City right -of-way (Revenue to the 
City) – referred to Finance Committee.  
        
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County to 
provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College and for an area of 
Laramie County immediately  adjacent to the City (Revenue to the City)  – referred to Finance 
Committee.       
        
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WYDOT for a Wyoming Rural Public 
Transportation grant to assist in providing a local match for operating funds for the Transit 
Program for FY 2024 (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee.     
        
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for the 
housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services Center located at the Archer 
Complex (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
        
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-1-24 for furnishing furniture for three (3) new fire stations for the 
Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee.        
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-3-24 for furnishing loose equipment for five (5) fire apparatus for 
the Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund and 2021 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
        
[CA] Consideration of Bid#S-3-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp. for the Yellowstone Road and Central Avenue Concrete Repairs Project  (2019-2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
        
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of  Cheyenne and RCN Technologies for the 
purchase of twelve (12) connected emergency blue light call stations ( 2021 Specific Purpose 
Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
        
Appointments of Brian Bau to the Downtown Development Authority Boa rd; David 
Johnson to the Cheyenne Housing Authority; and Jeff Fassett to the Board of Public Utilities.  Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mayor C ollins who did not vote (Mayoral 
appointments).         
 
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body related to the Voucher 
Report: Mr. Johnson. 
  
There were no comments made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Public comment was made by the following individuals under other business: Ed Galavotti, 
Larry Prock,  Kevin & S heryl Steele, Bonnie Kruse, Kay Nation, C arol Davinroy, Leslie 
Connaghan and Eleanor Grinnell. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business:  Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave. 
 
Mr. Johnson moved to meet in executive session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4-
405(a)(iii), seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open 
to the public and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the 
executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close 
of the executive session. The following staff members were in attendance:   Stefanie Boster, City 
Attorney, Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk, Tom Cobb, City Engineer, Doug K lahn, Construction 
Manager, Seth Lloyd, Planning & Development  and Jean Vetter, Greenway and Parks Planner.   
(Clerk’s Note: executive session convened at 7:38 p.m.) 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:26 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  October 4, 2023 