MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-10-09 | CLIP_ID: 924 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 924

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
October 9, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn (via Zoom), Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and 
Jeff White.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion.  There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Upon request by D r. Aldrich, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr.  Johnson and Mr. Esquibel, item #11 was removed from the Consent Agenda .  
Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Mr. White  and Dr. Aldrich, 
item #18(c) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant 
to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Cook, item #18(d) was removed from the Consent 
Agenda.   Mr. Roybal moved to approve  remaining items, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 25, 2023.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
               
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed- Use Business Emphasis to P 
Public District for land located at Lot 1, Block 1, Back 40 Subdivision, Third Filing.  Reporting 
for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4526) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to MUB Mixed-Use 
Business for land located on Lots 3, 4, 5, and 6, Block 1, Hitching Post Plaza, 3rd Filing.  Mr. Cook 
moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#4527) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending certain Sections of Chapter 13.20, Wastewater 
Treatment and Disposal of Title 13, Public Services of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, regarding wastewater treatment and disposal.  Mr. Cook moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Mr. Segrave moved to postpone to October 
23, 2023, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating Section 12.04.240, Mobile Storage Containers 
on Public Right -of-Way; Permit Required, of Chapter 12.04, Streets, Sidewalks and Driveways 
Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming and making a conforming amendment as specifie d. Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White 
moved to amend by substitute dated October 6, 2023, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to amend 
by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Dr. Rinne moved to 
amend the first sentence of Chapter 12.04.240( d) to read “An initial mobile storage container 
encroachment permit fee shall be $50.00, upon approval by the city engineer of the  permit 
application shall authorize the placement of the mobile storage container in accordance with this 
section for a period of not more than thirty (30) days.”, seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to amend 
failed. Voting “no” - all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting 
“yes”.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes" - all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Dr. Rinne voting “no” . Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 2.04.020, Mayor-Election-Term of 
Office, of Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, specifying the employment status of persons 
hired in the Mayor’s office – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave)         
 
 RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate 
in northwest Cheyenne generally located north of Dell Range Boulevard and west of Powderhouse 
Road. Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to adopt carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”.  (#6357) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15- 1-402 for a City-
initiated annexation of tracts of land in Township 14 North, Range 67 West of the 6 th p.m. for an 
area generally located west of Interstate 25, north of State Highway 210, east of Roundtop Road, 
and south of Horse Creek Road.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook 
moved to amend by substitute dated September 29, 2023, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion to 
amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Mr. Cook moved 
to postpone to October 23, 2023, seconded by Mr . Roybal.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Public comment was made by: Michael White.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. 
Segrave. 
 
 RESOLUTION – Expressing the will of the Governing Body for the temporary installation 
of additional traffic control devices at specified locations along Gardenia Drive to combat the 
serious problem of speeding vehicles .  Mr. Cook advised there was no recommendation from 
Committee.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr . Segrave. Motion failed.  Voting “no” – 
all members of the governing body.  Public comment w as made by: Sheryl Steele and Bonnie 
Kruse.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins, 
Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Requiring the study and submittal of a report to the Governing Body 
regarding vehicles violating posted speed limits on the City’s roadways and vehicles disregarding 
traffic signals and running red lights.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6358) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Requiring the study and submittal of a report to the Governing Body 
analyzing the best avenue for transitioning the Downtown Parking Program to a contract or a 
professional services model – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave)     
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to consent to the Partial Assignment, Assumption 
and Co-Tenancy of a Wind Energy Lease Agreement regarding the Roundhouse Wind Energy 
Facility partially located on the Belvoir Ranch – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor 
– Mr. Segrave) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Creative Outdoor for construction of and 
placement of benches, shelters, and concrete pads within and along bus routes, upon which 
advertising may be sold and establishing a fee for use of the City right -of-way (Revenue to the 
City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7834)  
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County to 
provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College and for an area of 
Laramie County imme diately adjacent to the City (Revenue to the City) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7835) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WYDOT for a Wyoming Rural Public 
Transportation grant to assist in providing a local match for operating funds for the Transit 
Program for FY 2024 (Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7836)     
        
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for the 
housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services Center located at the Archer 
Complex (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7837) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and The Pointe 
Homeowners’ Association for landscaping mainte nance services along the Greater Cheyenne 
Greenway – referred to Public Services Committee.  
        
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between  the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire Rescue 
Department, and the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security, FEMA, Grant Programs Directorate, 
SHSP Grant Fiscal Year 2021 in the amount of $50,414.78 for the Cheyenne Fire Rescue Regional 
Emergency Response Team 7 (RERT7) (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee.      
        
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Saddle Ridge 
Homeowners’ Association c/o WJE, LLC for the city to accept ownership of Lot 11, Block 3, 
Saddle Ridge 16th Filing and Tracts 1, 2 and 3 of Saddle Ridge 18th Filing and to outline the design, 
construction and maintenance responsibilities for the areas (Community Facility Fees) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
        
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-1-24 for furnishing furniture for three (3) new fire stations for the 
Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department ( 2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Indoff, Inc. in an amount not to exceed $24,141.30,  
Retail Associates, Inc., Ashley Cheyenne, in an amount not t o exceed $24,750.00, and Working 
Fire Furniture & Mattress Co. Inc . in an amount not to exceed $64,993.68 for a total amount not 
to exceed $113,884.98).    
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-3-24 for furnishing loose equipment for five (5) fire apparatus for 
the Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund and 2021 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Front Range 
Fire Apparatus, Colorado, in an amount not to exceed $411,648.63). 
        
 Consideration of Bid #S-3-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp. for the Yellowstone Road and Central Avenue Concrete Repairs Project  (2019-2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) .  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$935,576.50, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. (#7838)  
 
 Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and RCN Technologies for the 
purchase of twelve (12) connected emergency blue light call stations ( 2021 Spec ific Purpose 
Option Tax Fund) .  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $145,301.60, 
seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn.  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -4-24 for furnishing sixteen (16) new 4 door 2023/2024 model 
utility police interceptors (SUV) for the Cheyenne Police Department (2019- 2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund and Insurance Proceeds) – referred to Finance Committee.  
        
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-5-24 for furnishing one (1) new 2023-2024 motorized articulated 
trash compactor for the City of Cheyenne Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
Appointment of Bryan Thomas to the Planning Commission. Dr. Aldrich  moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (Mayoral appointment).  
[Clerks note: Mr. Laybourn left the Zoom meeting at 6:43 p.m. following the vote of this item to 
join the executive session in person]         
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting Make-A-Wish Wyoming, will be held 
on November 10 - November 11, 2023 at Red Lion Hotel and Conference Center, 204 Fox Farm 
Rd., Cheyenne, WY.  (10% of proceeds go to charity)     
  
 Public comment was made by the following indi vidual under other business : Doug 
Redding. 
 
Mr. Johnson moved to meet in executive session pursuant to Wyoming Statute §16- 4-
405(a)(iii), seconded by Mr . Esquibel .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open 
to the public and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the 
executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close 
of the e xecutive session. The following were in attendance:   Stefanie Boster, City Attorney, 
Kristina F. Jones, City Clerk, Tom Cobb, City Engineer, and Mark Stewart, Davis & Cannon, LLP.  
(Clerk’s Note: executive session convened at 6:47 p.m.) 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:14 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  October 18, 2023 