MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-11-13 | CLIP_ID: 929 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 929

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
November 13, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White . 
Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Segrave and Mr. Esquibel, item #16 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon 
request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave, item 
#17 was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Cook, and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave, item #27(e) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  
Upon request by Mr. White, and pursuant to support received by  Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Esquibel, 
item #28(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr . White moved to approve  remaining 
items, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on October 23, 2023.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to receive comments and input for a bar and grill 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Wyoming Horse Racing LLC d/b/a Horse Palace, 
1802 Dell Range Blvd. Suite 3, Cheyenne, WY.  Public comment was made by: Steve Jim enez, 
General Manager, Wyoming Horse Racing.  Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Roybal.  There being no 
further comments or input, and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the 
hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to receive comments and input to determine 
whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15- 1-402 exist for 
the City-initiated annexation of 51 parcels of land totaling 100.56 acres comprised of various tracts 
of land situate in northwest Cheyenne generally l ocated north of Dell Range Boulevard and west 
of Powderhouse Road.  Public comment was made by: April Brimmer Kunz, Jack Knudson, Gloria 
Milmont, Abe DeHerrera, Booyong Kim and Bill Weaver.  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mayor Collins. There being no further comments 
or input, and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
  
  ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating Section 12.04.240, Mobile Storage Containers 
on Public Right -of-Way; Permit Required, of Chapter 12.04, Streets, Sidewalks and Driveways 
Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming and making a conforming amendment as specified. (Postponed from October 
23, 2023). Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve on third and final  
reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Mr. White moved to postpone to November 27, 2023, seconded 
by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”.  Comment was made by the following member of the 
governing body: Mr. Cook. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 2.04.020, Mayor-Election-Term of 
Office, of Chapter 2.04, Mayor and City Council, of Title 2, Administration and Personnel, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, specifying the employment status of persons 
hired in the Mayor’s office. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins and Mr. Cook. (#4529) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed- Use Business Emphasis to CB 
Community Business for land located at Lot 2, Block 1, Sunnyside Addition, 10 th Filing.  Mr. 
Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Subsections 6.6.3.b.3, 6.7.5.c, and 6.9.3.e of 
the Unified Development Code (UDC), changing the building façade design requirements for 
multifamily residential development.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. White.  Mr. Cook moved to postpone to November 27, 2023, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  
Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich,  Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, 
Mr. Laybourn and Dr. Rinne. 
 
ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business and HR High-Density 
Residential to MUB Mixed -Use Business for land located northwest of the intersection of Dell 
Range Boulevard and Whitney Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Cook) 
                        
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in northwest Cheyenne generally 
located north of Dell Range Boulevard and west of Powderhouse Road – referred to Public 
Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)    
                        
 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classifications of AG Agricultural LR -  Low Density 
Residential, MR - Medium Density Residential, CB -  Community Business, and MUR -  Mixed-
Use Residential for land annexed to the City of Cheyenne generally located north of Dell Range 
Boulevard and west of Powderhouse Road – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – 
Mr. Cook) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15- 1-402 for a City-
initiated annexation of tracts of land in Township 14 North, Range 67 West of the 6 th p.m. for an 
area generally located west of Interstate 25, north of State Highway 210, east of Roundtop Road, 
and south of Horse Creek Road.  Mr. Cook advised there was no recommendation from Public 
Services Committee. Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion failed.  Voting 
“no” – all members of the governing body.  Public commen t was made by : Michael White .  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Segrave.  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – To adopt the Certificate of Canvass and Declaration of Results of the 
Canvassing Board for the Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority District Special Election 
held October 18, 2023.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6361) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Certifying the Van Buren Corridor Plan and adopting the Van Buren 
Corridor Plan as an amendment to the Connect 2045 of the Cheyenne Area Master Transportation 
Plan regarding the future design and reconstruction of Van Buren Avenue between Dell Range 
and Lincolnway.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave. (#6362) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Certifying the Powderhouse Road Corridor Study and adopting the 
Powderhouse Road Corridor Study as an amendment to the Connect 2045 of the Cheyenne Area 
Master Transportation Plan regarding the future design and reconstruction of Powderhouse Road 
between Dell Range and US 82 .  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion  
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Public comments were made by: 
Tristan Cordier, AVI.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Laybourn. (#6363) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Pursuant to Wyoming Statute § 15-9-107 finding and declaring parts of 
the Ridge and Holland area in the City of Cheyenne as blight and authorizing the redevelopment 
thereof.  Mr. Cook advised there was no recommendation from Public Services Committee.  Mr. 
Cook moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of  Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn vot ing “no”.  Public  
comment was made by: Brad Emmons, AVI and Jason Stephen, Gateway Construction.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave . Dr. Rinne raised 
a point of order relating to certain comments not being germane to the resolution. (#6364) 
 
 After a brief recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 8:35 p.m. 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Alliance 
Addition, 5th Filing, a Replat of Lots 1-17, Block 1, Alliance Addition, 4th Filing and a portion of 
Tract 12, Dell Range Addition, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of 
Ridge Road, north of Jackson Street).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#6365) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to Execute a Settlement Agreement with WJE, 
LLC to resolve the April 6, 2023 Notice of Governmental Claim regarding an alleged taking of 
real property in Saddle Ridge adjacent to Christensen Road.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded 
by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. White moved to postpone to November 27, 2023, seconded by Dr. Aldrich .  
Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – To provide salary adjustments to 116 non- uniformed employees 
identified through a wage matrix tool created to address pay disparity (Various City funds) – 
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)   
     
[CA] RESOLUTION – Acknowledging the adoption of the Wyoming Retirement System 
deferred compensation plan for full-time employees, adopting the deferred compensation plan for 
part-time employees, and further specifying the part -time employee plan enrollment method –  
referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)   
     
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts pursuant 
to Wyoming Statute §16-4-502 – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. White)   
     
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to execute all necessary documents related to the 
transfer, purchase and sale of a specified portion of the property located at 503 West College Drive 
(Public Safety Infrastructure Fees) – referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)   
     
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to sign a Final Plat for Sunnyside Addition, 13th 
Filing, a replat of Lot 2, Block 1, Sunnyside Addition, Tenth Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located east of Cleveland Avenue and north of US 30) – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)       
     
[CA] RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the ‘201 Agreement’ for the owner of the 
property located on a portion of the SW ¼ Section 13 to allow installation of on- site sewage 
holding tanks (septic system) located within Laramie County – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)       
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the State Construction 
Department (SCD) to designate the Municipal Building as the primary emergency evacuation 
assembly area for the SCD).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7853) 
 
[CA] Subgrantee Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for the FY 2023 
Byrne Justice Assistance Grant to assist with community policing efforts. (BJA FY23 Edward 
Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#7854)  
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WYDOT for a Wyoming Rural Public 
Transportation grant to assist in providing a local match for operating funds for the Transit 
Program for FY 2024 (Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $300,000.00). (#7855) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Department of Health, Aging 
Division, to provide support services to persons 60 years or older under the Title III -B program 
grant for FY 2024 (III-B Division on Aging Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $116,677.00). (#7856) 
 
 Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne  and Goat Systems, LLC, for the 
development of a data center campus and ancillary uses (Revenue to the City) .  Mr. Cook moved 
to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated November 
7, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes” -  
all members of the governing body.  Public comment was ma de by: Betsey Hale, Cheyenne 
LEADS.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich 
and Mayor Collins.  (#7857) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WMC Cheyenne, LLC for a Drainage 
Easement granted to the City to ensure maintenance of a storm water conveyance system – referred 
to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Depot 
Museum Inc regarding the charitable contribution from the David Donoho- A Friend of the #844 
Fund, a fund of the Indianapolis Foundation to the Cheyenne Deport Museum to support  the 
restoration of Old Sadie for the 15th Street Rail Project (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County 
School District #1 for community counseling and crisis intervention services (Revenue to the City) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ardurra  for the 
Charles Street Drainage and Roadway Improvements Design Project (2019 -2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between  the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire Rescue 
Department, and the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security, FEMA, Grant Programs Directorate, 
SHSP Grant Fiscal Year 2023 in the amount of $109,000.00 to support ongoing training and 
equipment purchases for the Cheyenne Fire Rescue Regional Emergency Response Team 7 
(RERT7) (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification #2 to Contract #6786 between the City of Cheyenne and Novo 
Benefits, LLC, to extend the term of the agreement for an additional (3) year period (Self Insurance 
Fund).  Mr. Johnson declared a conflict of interest and vacated council chambers.  Mr. White 
moved to approve in the amount of $6,330.58, seconded by Dr . Aldrich. Mr. White moved to 
amend the amount to not to exceed $227,901.00, seconded by Dr. Aldrich .  Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body.  Main motion as amended carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#6786) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #7618 between the City of Cheyenne and T -O 
Engineers for the Transit Facility Site Plan (2019 -2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $15,100.00). (#7618) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-5-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Arena 
Products and Services for the City of Cheyenne Ice and Events Center Evaporative Condenser 
Replacement Project ( Ice and Events Center Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $106,153.15). (#7858)  
       
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -4-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Built 
Right LLC for the Cheyenne Kiwanis Community House Roof Replacement Project ( General 
Fund Reserve & American Rescue Plan Federal Recovery Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (accepted bid in an amount not to exceed $179,000.00). (#7859) 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Advanced Comfort Solutions 
for the purchase and installation of Fire Station Vehicle Exhaust Systems (General Fund & 2019-
2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $372,274.00). 
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments  under other business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Johnson and Mr. White.  
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:53 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  November 18, 2023 