MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-11-27 | CLIP_ID: 930 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 930

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
November 27, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel (via 
Zoom), Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne,  Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda .  Upon request by  Dr. Aldrich , and pursuant to support 
received by Mr. Johnson and Mr. White, item #18 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon 
request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Johnson, item 
#27(b) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve remaining items, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 13, 2023.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
  ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating Section 12.04.240, Mobile Storage Containers 
on Public Right -of-Way; Permit Required, of Chapter 12.04, Streets, Sidewalks and Driveways 
Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming and making a conforming amendment as specified . (Postponed from 
November 13, 2023).  Reporting for Finance Committee,  Mr. White moved to approve on third 
and final  reading, seconded by  Dr. Aldrich .  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated 
November 21, 2023 which includes the following motions made in committee:  amending Section 
“D” to strike “thirty (30)” days and replace it with “ninety (90)” days and amending section “D” 
and Section “H” to reflect the change and extend the total number of combined days to one hundred 
eighty (180) in any consecutive twelve (12) month period, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion to 
amend by substitute failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the governing body.  Mr. Roybal moved 
to postpone to December 11, 2023, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to postpone carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Johnson 
voting “no”.  Public comment was made by: Rick Fierro, Ram Trucking Inc. and James Bowers, 
Lynn Buys Houses.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal. 
   
 
 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed -Use Business Emphasis to CB 
Community Business for land located at Lot 2, Block 1, Sunnyside Addition, 10 th Filing.  
Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.   
(#4530) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Subsections 6.6.3.b.3, 6.7.5.c, and 6.9.3.e of 
the Unified Development Code (UDC), changing the building façade design requirements for 
multifamily residential development (Postponed from November 13, 2023).  Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute 
dated November 16, 2023 , seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute  failed.  
Voting “yes” – Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave.  Main motion failed.  Voting “ no” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “yes”.  Public comment 
was made by: Dan Dorsch, Executive Director, Habitat for Humanity of Laramie County, Ansley 
Mouw, Winters Griffith Architects and Jason Stephen, Gateway Construction.   Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Johnson, 
Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave.  
 
ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business and HR High-Density 
Residential to MUB Mixed -Use Business for land located northwest of the intersection of Dell 
Range Boulevard and Whitney Road.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comment 
was made by the following member of the governing body: Mr. Segrave. 
                      
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in northwest Cheyenne generally 
located north of Dell Range Boulevard and west of Powderhouse Road .  Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”.  Public comment 
was made by: April Brimmer Kunz, Jack Knudson and Bill Weaver.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. Johnson. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classifications of AG Agricultural LR - Low Density 
Residential, MR - Medium Density Residential, CB - Community Business, and MUR - Mixed-
Use Residential for land annexed to the City  of Cheyenne generally located north of Dell Range 
Boulevard and west of Powderhouse Road .  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending subsection 6.7.5.b of the Unified Development 
Code (UDC), changing building façade design requirements to reduce required windows on urban 
loft multifamily residential and mixed -use residential development – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)     
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending subsection 5.1.5 of the Unified Development 
Code (UDC), removing minimum lot area requirements for detached dwellings, semi -attached 
dwellings, attached dwellings, and multi -dwelling buildings – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)     
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending subsection 5.1.5 of the Unified Development 
Code (UDC), removing density requirements for multi -dwelling buildings – referred to Public 
Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)       
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending subsection 6.2.4 of the Unified Development 
Code (UDC), amending Table 6 -2, required automobile parking for multi -family development – 
referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
                        
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Title 6, Animals, of the Municipal Code of the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, regarding the registration, control, impoundment and general care 
of animals and birds within the city – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. 
Johnson) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to Execute a Settlement Agreement with WJE, 
LLC to resolve the April 6, 2023 Notice of Governmental Claim regarding an alleged taking of 
real property in Saddle Ridge adjacent to Christensen Road.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6366/Contract #7862) 
 
 RESOLUTION – To provide salary adjustments to 116 non -uniformed employees 
identified through a wage matrix tool created to address pay disparity (Various City funds) .  Mr. 
White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Dr. Aldrich moved to postpone to December 11, 
2023, seconded by Mr. White.   Motion to postpone failed.  Voting “yes” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. 
Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. White. Voting “no” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Dr. Rinne, Mr. 
Roybal and Mr. Segrave. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.     
(#6367)    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Acknowledging the adoption of the Wyoming Retirement System 
deferred compensation plan for full-time employees, adopting the deferred compensation plan for 
part-time employees, and further specifying the part -time employee plan enrollment method .  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6368)   
     
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City Treasurer to discharge uncollectible debts pursuant 
to Wyoming Statute §16-4-502.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6369)   
     
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to execute all necessary documents related to the 
transfer, purchase and sale of a specified portion of the property located at 503 West College Drive 
(Public Safety Infrastructure Fees ).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (# 6370/Contract 
#7863)   
     
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to sign a Final Plat for Sunnyside Addition, 13th 
Filing, a replat of Lot 2, Block 1, Sunnyside Addition, Tenth Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie 
County, Wyoming (located east of Cleveland Avenue and north of US 30) .  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6371) 
     
 RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the ‘201 Agreement’ for the owner of the 
property located on a portion of the SW ¼ Section 13 to allow installation of on -site sewage 
holding tanks (septic system) located within Laramie County.  Mr. Cook moved to adopt, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute dated November 20, 2023, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing 
body. Public comment was made by: Scott Larsen, Benchmark Engineers, applicant for the owner 
and Jennifer Escobedo, Cheyenne Laramie County Health Director.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave. (#6372) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the conversion of a portion of the Dutcher Ball Fields,  
located at 4200 Converse Avenue, Cheyenne Wyoming from Perpetual Public Outdoor Recreation 
use and committing to encumber the Rotary Park property to be donated by the Cheyenne Rotary 
Club Foundation to include a deed restriction for Perpetual Public Outdoor Recreation use pursuant 
to the requirements set forth in the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 – referred to 
Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Dr. Rinne) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing a three (3) percent cost -of-living salary adjustment for all 
permanent full and part-time employees of the City of Cheyenne – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. White)   
        
[CA] RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
District Boundaries for New Years Eve on December 31, 2023 – referred to Finance Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. Johnson) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WMC Cheyenne, LLC for a Drainage 
Easement granted to the City to ensure maintenance of a storm water conveyance system.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7864) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Depot 
Museum Inc regarding the charitable contribution from the David Donoho -A Friend of the #844 
Fund, a fund of the Indianapolis Foundation to the Cheyenne Deport Museum to support the 
restoration of Old Sadie for the 15th Street Rail Project (Revenue to the City).  Mr. White declared 
a conflict of interest and vacated council chambers. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve in an amoun t 
not to exceed $480,000.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr.  Segrave voting 
“no”.  Public comment was made by: Christy White, Cheyenne Depot Museum.  Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, 
Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave. (#7865) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County 
School District #1 for community counseling and crisis intervention services (Revenue to the 
City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $200,770.49). (#7866) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ardurra for the 
Charles Street Drainage and Roadway Improvements Design Project (2019 -2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $152,200.00). 
(#7867) 
 
[CA] Grant Award Agreement between  the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire Rescue 
Department, and the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security, FEMA, Grant Programs Directorate, 
SHSP Grant Fiscal Year 2023 in the amount of $109,000.00 to support ongoing training and 
equipment purchases for the Chey enne Fire Rescue Regional Emergency Response Team 7 
(RERT7) (Revenue to the City).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7868) 
 
[CA] Minimum Revenue Guaranteed Payment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
the Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team (CRAFT) for Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2024 
(2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and GSG Architecture, 
Inc for the Municipal Building Spatial Analysis Project (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) 
– referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Purchase and Sale Agreement for property located at 813 West 23 rd Street for the Reed 
Avenue Corridor Project (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7770 between the City of Cheyenne and Z and Z 
Sealcoating, Inc. for additional material required for the 2023 Crack Seal #1 Project (2019 -2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Dowdle Studios for the 
Commissioned Painting and Puzzles Project (General Fund Reserves) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Bar and grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Wyoming 
Horse Racing LLC d/b/a Horse Palace, 1802 Dell Range Blvd. Suite 3, Cheyenne, WY.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried.  
 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body related to the 
Voucher Report: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn. 
 
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body related to the 
Revenue Report: Mr. Johnson. 
 
 
Announcement of a Public Hearing was made to be held December 11, 2023 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic 
conference meeting to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for about 5.91 acres of land located west of Polk Avenue and 
north of and adjacent to E Pershing Blvd. 
 
The following member of the governing body made comment  under other business: Mr. 
Johnson.  
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:50 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 6, 2023 