MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-12-11 | CLIP_ID: 931 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 931

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 11, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich , Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White . 
Also present: Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support by 
Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Roybal, item #28(b) was removed from Consent Agenda. Dr. Aldrich moved 
to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on Novem ber 27, 2023.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for about 5.91 acres of land located west 
of Polk Avenue and north of and adjacent to E Pershing Blvd. Public comment was made by:  
Benard Thyarks. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich 
and Mayor Collins. There being no further comments or input, and purpose of the hearing having 
been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
 
  ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Creating Section 12.04.240, Mobile Storage Containers 
on Public Right -of-Way; Permit Required, of Chapter 12.04, Streets, Sidewalks and Driveways 
Generally, of Title 12, Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming and making a conforming amendment as specified. (Postponed from 
November 27, 2023).  Reporting for Finance Committee,  Mr. White moved to approve on third 
and final  reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich . Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated 
December 4, 2023, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal voting 
“no”.  Mr. Segrave moved to amend subsection J to delete “For the purposes of this section, mobile 
storage container shall include roll off dumpsters” entirely and  insert “For the purpose s of this 
section, mobile storage shall not include roll off dumpsters” , seconded by Mr. Cook.  Motion to 
amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Main motion as amended  by 
substitute, as amended, carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body. Public 
comment was made by:  Rick Fierro, Ram Trucking, Edward Ernste, Monument Homebuilders, 
Dan Dors ch, Executive Director, Habitat for Humanity of Laramie County, Brenda B irkle, 
Executive Director, My Front Door, Joe Patterson, Homes by Guardian and Southeast Wyoming 
Homebuilders Association, Bruce Trembath, JEI Construction and Jason Stephen, Gateway 
Construction. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal and Mr. Segrave. (#4531) 
 
ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business and HR High-Density 
Residential to MUB Mixed -Use Business for land located northwest of the intersection of Dell 
Range Boulevard and Whitney Road.  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. (#4532) 
                       
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in northwest Cheyenne generally 
located north of Dell Range Boulevard and west of Powderhouse Road.  Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”.  Public comment 
was made by: Jim Weaver . Comments were made by the following members of t he governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave . 
(#4533) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classifications of AG Agricultural LR -  Low Density 
Residential, MR - Medium Density Residential, CB -  Community Business, and MUR -  Mixed-
Use Residential for land annexed to the City of Cheyenne generally located north of Dell Range 
Boulevard and west of Powderhouse Road.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  
(#4534) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending subsection 6.7.5.b of the Unified 
Development Code (UDC), changing building façade design requirements to reduce required 
windows on urban loft multifamily residential and mixed -use residential development. Mr. Cook 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson. Mr. Cook moved to amend section 
(b)(1) to delete “Where the interior operation or program of the building warrants screening from 
the street, a closed display window of at least 2.5 feet deep may be substituted along up to 50% of 
the linear distance of the façade”, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Segrave voting “no” .  Public 
comment was made by: Edward Ernste, Monument Homebuilders, Brenda Birkle, My Front Door, 
Ansley Mouw, Winters Griffith Architects, Dan Dorsch, Habitat for Humanity of Laramie County, 
Jason Ste phen, Gateway Construction, Joe Patterson , Guardian Homes  and Tyson Pence . 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. 
 
 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending subsection 5.1.5 of the Unified Development 
Code (UDC), removing minimum lot area requirements for detached dwellings, semi -attached 
dwellings, attached dwellings, and multi -dwelling buildings . Mr. Cook advised there was no 
recommendation from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of  Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave voting “no” .  Public comment was 
made by: Dan Dorsch, Habitat for Humanity of Laramie County, Brenda Birkle, My Front Door, 
Heath Johnson, Jason Ste phen, Gateway Construction and Bruce Trembath, JEI Construction.   
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending subsection 5.1.5 of the Unified Development 
Code (UDC), removing density requirements for multi -dwelling buildings. Mr. Cook moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave voting “no” .  Public 
comment was made by: Ansley Mouw, Winters Griffith Architects, Brenda Birkle, My Front Door,  
Jason Stephen, Gateway Construction and Dan Dorsch, Habitat for Humanity of Laramie County.  
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending subsection 6.2.4 of the Unified Development 
Code (UDC), amending Table 6- 2, required automobile parking for multi -family development. 
Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White . Mr. Cook moved to 
amend section (3) to strike “0.5 space per unit” and read “ 1.0 space per unit for studio or one 
bedroom”, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion to amend carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Segrave voting “no”. Main motion as amended carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Segrave voting “no”. 
Public comment was made by: Jason Ste phen, Gateway Construction, Brenda Birkle, My Front 
Door, Dan Dors ch, Habitat for Humanity of Laramie County and Edward Ernste, Monument 
Homebuilders. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. 
 
 Following a brief recess, Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 7:51 p.m. 
                        
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Title 6, Animals, of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, regarding the registration, control, impoundment and general 
care of animals and birds within the city .  Mr. Cook advised there was no recommendation from 
Public Services Committee. Mr. Cook moved to approve  on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
Johnson. Dr. Aldrich moved to postpone to December 21, 2023, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion 
to postpone carried. Voting “yes”- all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr 
Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn voting “no” .  Public comment was made by: Britney  Tennant, CEO, 
Cheyenne Animal Shelter, Emily  Intlekofer, Black Dog Animal Rescue and Dr. Sara Pizano, 
Maddies Million Pet Challenge.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal 
and Mr. White. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Ordinance No. 4520 Defining the Terms and 
Conditions of Employment for Sworn Officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 
2023-2024 -- referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. White)  
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of Polk Avenue and north of and adjacent to East Pershing Boulevard -- referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook)  
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AR Agricultural Residential for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located east of Polk Avenue and north of and adjacent to East Pershing 
Boulevard -- referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AR Agricultural Residential to LI Light 
Industrial for land located east of Polk Avenue and north of and adjacent to East Pershing 
Boulevard -- referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the conversion of a portion of the Dutcher Ball Fields,  
located at 4200 Converse Avenue, Cheyenne Wyoming from Perpetual Public Outdoor Recreation 
use and committing to encumber the Rotary Park property to be donated by the Cheyenne Rotary 
Club Foundation to include a deed restriction for Perpetual Public Outdoor Recreation use pursuant 
to the requirements set forth in the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6373) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing a three (3) percent cost -of-living salary adjustment for all 
permanent full and part -time employees of the City of Cheyenne . Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6374) 
        
 RESOLUTION – Permitting the possession of open containers within the Downtown 
District Boundaries for New Years Eve on December 31, 2023. Mr. White moved to adopt , 
seconded by Mr. Roybal. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, and Mr. Segrave voting “no” . Public comment was 
made by: Domenic Bravo, Visit Cheyenne. Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn. (#6375) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2024 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§16 -4-112 and 16-4-113 -- referred to Finance Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. White)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds  -- referred 
to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White)  
 
 
 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the will of the Governing Body directing the Mayor to hire a 
Special Projects Manager to assist the City of Cheyenne in managing and coordinating 6th Penny 
Tax projects and other city project priorities as directed by the Mayor  -- referred to Finance 
Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – In accordance with Section 2D of the second amended and restated 
Project Development and Administration Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, the 
Cheyenne-Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development and Granite Peak 
Development Limited Partnership, and pursuant to W.S. §15-1-112(b), authorizing the sale of the 
rails, ties and related rail equipment in the Swan Ranch Industrial Park to Granite Peak 
Development Limited Partnership upon determining that the sale benefits the economi c 
development of the community -- referred to Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of the Capital Construction Loan application to 
the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne 
for the construction of water, sewer and road infrastructure to support housing for F.E. Warren Air 
Force Base and for economic development – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. 
White)   
 
[CA] Minimum Revenue Guaranteed Payment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
the Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team (CRAFT) for Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2024 
(2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( in an amount 
not to exceed $500,000.00). (#7873) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and GSG Architecture, 
Inc for the Municipal Building Spatial Analysis Project (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund). 
Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $115,027.00, seconded by Mr. Roybal. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comment was made by the 
following member of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn. (#7874)    
 
[CA] Purchase and Sale Agreement for property located at 813 West 23 rd Street for the Reed 
Avenue Corridor Project (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $161,000.00). (#7875) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Lance & Hall, LLP for 
public defense services – referred to Finance Committee. (General Fund)  
 
[CA] Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Taurus Holdings, LLC 
for approximately 2.10 acres of vacant land west of Snyder Avenue at 7th Street and more 
particularly described in Exhibit A  -- referred to Finance Committee. (2023- 2026 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund)  
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7770 between the City of Cheyenne and Z and Z 
Sealcoating, Inc. for additional material required for the 2023 Crack Seal #1 Project (2019- 2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$90,667.16). (#7770) 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7775 between the City of Cheyenne and Sunrise 
Engineering for additional design services for the 7th Street Drainage and Access Improvements 
Project -- referred to Finance Committee.  (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7561 between the City of Cheyenne and HDR 
Engineering, Inc. for additional engineering services related to the Pedestrian Traffic Safety Study 
and HAWK System Design Project  – referred to Finance Committee. (2019- 2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund) 
 
 Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Dowdle Studios for the 
Commissioned Painting and Puzzles Project (General Fund Reserves) . Mr. White advised there 
was no recommendation from Finance Committee.  Mr. White moved to approve in an amount of 
$150,000.00, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion failed. Voting “no” all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne voting “yes”. Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, 
Dr. Rinne and Mr. White. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Meridian Rapid Defense 
Group LLC, for the purchase of an Anti -Vehicle Barrier and Trailer System for the Community 
Recreation and Events Department  -- referred to Finance Committee.  (2019-2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund, 2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund and Wyoming Department of Homeland 
Security) 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Axon Enterprise, Inc., for 
the purchase of Axon Body 4, Body Worn Video Cameras for the City of Cheyenne Police 
Department -- referred to Finance Committee. (General Fund Reserves and Future Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund Ballot)  
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
  
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held December 21, 2023 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic 
conference meeting regarding the required sale of real property and related equipment in Swan 
Ranch Industrial Park to Granite Peak Development Limited Partne rship upon a finding of 
beneficial economic development. 
  
Announcement was made that due to the Christmas holiday schedule, the regularly 
scheduled City Council meeting on Monday, December 25, 2023, will instead be held on 
Thursday, December 21, 2023 at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, 
Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting.  
 
Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting the Breast Cancer Initiative of 
Wyoming, will be held on January 5 – January 6, 2024 at Peppermill Bar, 1618 Stillwater Avenue, 
Cheyenne, WY. 
 
 
Mr. Segrave noted the motion to adopt the following Ordinance -  Amending Subsections 
6.6.3.b.3, 6.7.5.c, and 6.9.3.e of the Unified Development Code (UDC), changing the building 
façade design requirements for multifamily residential development, failed at the November 27, 
2023 City Council meeting.  Having voted on the prevailing side and pursuant to Chapter 2.04 of 
City Code, Mr. Segrave moved to reconsider the vote taken on the ordinance, seconded by Roybal.  
Motion to reconsider carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body.  Dr. Rinne moved 
to postpone to December 21, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to postpone carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. 
 
Mr. Johnson moved to meet in executive session Pursuant to Wyoming Statute s §§16-4-
405(a)(iii) and 16 -4- 405(a)(vii), seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body.  Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive 
session, not open to the public and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as 
a result of the executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially 
conclude at the close of the executive session. The following staff members were in attendance: 
Stephanie Boster, City Attorney, Robin Lockman, City Treasurer, TJ Barttelbort, Purchasing 
Manager, Tom Cobb, City Engineer, Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk and Jason Sanchez, Director 
of Community Recreation and Events.  Also present: Attorney Mark Stewart.   
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 10:14 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        Deputy City Clerk, CMC 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 20, 2023 