MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2023-12-21 | CLIP_ID: 933 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 933

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 21, 2023  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, (via Zoom), Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Cook, and pursuant to support received 
by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Johnson, item #20 was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request 
by Mr. Johnson, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Cook, item #21 was 
removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve remaining items, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Mayor Collins who declared a conflict due to a business affiliation with agenda item #18. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 11 , 2023.  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing regarding the required sale of real property and 
related equipment in Swan Ranch Industrial Park to Granite Peak Development Limited 
Partnership upon a finding of beneficial economic development. Public comment was made by Joe 
Stephenson, Granite Peak Development, Limited Partnership. Comment was made by the 
following member of the governing body:  Mayor Collins.  There being no further comments or 
input, and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending subsection 6.7.5.b of the Unified 
Development Code (UDC), changing building façade design requirements to reduce required 
windows on urban loft multifamily residential and mixed-use residential development. Reporting 
for Public Services Committee, Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to postpone to January 8, 2024, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion to postpone carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. Johnson.   
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending subsection 5.1.5 of the Unified Development 
Code (UDC), removing minimum lot area requirements for detached dwellings, semi -attached 
dwellings, attached dwellings, and multi -dwelling buildings . Mr. Cook advised there was no 
recommendation from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final 
reading, seconded Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave voting “no” .  Public comment was 
made by Jason Stephen, Gateway Construc tion, Brenda Birkle, My Front Door, Sam Weinstein, 
Southeast Wyoming B uilders Association and Eric Adams, Gateway Construction.  Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body:   Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave. (#4535) 
  
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending subsection 5.1.5 of the Unified Development 
Code (UDC), removing density requirements for multi-dwelling buildings. Mr. Cook advised there 
was no recommendation from Public Services Committee. Mr. Cook moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.   
Public comment was made by:  Jason Stephen, Gateway Constru ction, Brenda B irkle, My Front 
Door, Ansley Mouw, Winters Griffith Architects, Sam Weinstein,  Southeast Wyoming Builders 
Association, Wendy Volk, #1 Properties and Eric Adams, Gateway Construction.  Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave. (#4536) 
  
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending subsection 6.2.4 of the Unified Development 
Code (UDC), amending Table 6- 2, required automobile parking for multi -family development. 
Mr. Cook moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Laybourn and Mr. 
Segrave voting “no”.  Public comment was made by:  Jason Stephen, Gateway Construc tion, 
Brenda B irkle, My Front Door , Ansley Mouw, Winters Griffith Architects, Sam Weinstein,  
Southeast Wyoming Builders Association, Wendy Volk, #1 Properties and Eric Adams, Gateway 
Construction.  (#4537) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Title 6, Animals, of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, regarding the registration, control, impoundment and general 
care of animals and birds within the city.  Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. Roybal.  Mr. Cook moved to postpone to  January 8, 2024, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  
Motion to postpone carried. Voting “yes”- all members of the governing body.   Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body:  Mr. Johnson and Mr. Laybourn.     
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Ordinance No. 4520 Defining the Terms and 
Conditions of Employment for Sworn Officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 
2023-2024. Reporting for Finance Committee , Mr. White moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body.   
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of Polk Avenue and north of and adjacent to East Pershing Boulevard. Mr. Cook 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” -
all members of the governing body. 
 
 
 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AR Agricultural Residential for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located east of Polk Avenue and north of and adjacent to East Pershing 
Boulevard. Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body.   
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AR Agricultural Residential to LI Light 
Industrial for land located east of Polk Avenue and north of and adjacent to East Pershing 
Boulevard. Mr. Cook moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body.   
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Subsections 6.6.3.b.3, 6.7.5.c, and 6.9.3.e of 
the Unified Development Code (UDC), changing the building façade design requirements for 
multifamily residential development (Reconsidered from December 11, 2023).  Mr. Cook moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Cook moved to amend by substitute 
dated December 18, 2023, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend  by substitute  carried.  
Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook 
and Mr. Roybal voting “no”.  Main motion  as amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes” -  all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”. 
         
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2024 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§16- 4-112 and 16- 4-113. Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6376) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds .  Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6377) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Expressing the will of the Governing Body directing the Mayor to hire a 
Special Projects Manager to assist the City of Cheyenne in managing and coordinating 6th Penny 
Tax projects and other city project priorities as directed by the Mayor.  Mr. White moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. White moved to amend by substitute dated December 13, 2023, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” - all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”.  Main motion  as amended by 
substitute carried.  Voting “yes” -  all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. 
Rinne voting “no”.  Comments were made by the following members of the Governing Body: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal, Mr. 
Segrave and Mr. White. (#6378) 
 
 RESOLUTION – In accordance with Section 2D of the second amended and restated 
Project Development and Administration Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, the 
Cheyenne-Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development and Granite Peak 
Development Limited Partnership, and pursuant to W.S. §15-1-112(b), authorizing the sale of the 
rails, ties and related rail equipment in the Swan Ranch Industrial Park to Granite Peak 
Development Limited Partnership upon determining that the sale benefits the economic 
development of the community.  Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comment was made by the following 
member of the governing body: Mayor Collins.  (#6379) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of the Capital Construction Loan application to 
the State Loan and Investment Board on behalf of the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne 
for the construction of water, sewer and road infrastructure to support housing for F.E. Warren Air 
Force Base and for economic development. Mr. White moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  
Motion carried. Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body.  Public comment was made 
by: Rob Graham, Coldwell Banker, Dale Steenbergen,  President/CEO, Greater Cheyenne 
Chamber of Commerce , Wendy Volk, #1 Properties, Brenda Birkle, My Front Door  and Sam 
Weinstein.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, 
Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal. (#6380) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Settlement Agreement with Rodney 
and Joyce Stone and Dean and Jayne Fertig to resolve a lawsuit regarding increased flooding 
following the development of the Thomas Heights Subdivision -- referred to Finance Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. White) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Lance & Hall, LLP for 
public defense services (General Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7884) 
 
[CA] Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Taurus Holdings, LLC 
for approximately 2.10 acres of vacant land west of Snyder Avenue at 7th Street and more 
particularly described in Exhibit A  (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $155,000.00). (#7885) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7775 between the City of Cheyenne and Sunrise 
Engineering for additional design services for the 7th Street Drainage and Access Improvements 
Project (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried ( in an 
amount not to exceed $13,300.00). (#7775) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7561 between the City of Cheyenne and HDR 
Engineering, Inc. for additional engineering services related to the Pedestrian Traffic Safety Study 
and HAWK System Design Project  (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $10,420.00). (#7561) 
 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7782 between the City of Cheyenne and DHM 
Design Corporation, for utility locating services for the Reed Avenue Rail Corridor Design Project 
(2017 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) -- referred to Finance Committee.    
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Meridian Rapid Defense 
Group LLC, for the purchase of an Anti -Vehicle Barrier and Trailer System for the Community 
Recreation and Events Department  (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund, 2021 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund and Wyoming Department of Homeland Security).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $100,059.34). 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Axon Enterprise, Inc., for 
the purchase of Axon Body 4, Body Worn Video Cameras for the City of Cheyenne Police 
Department (General Fund Reserves and Future Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund Ballot) . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $800,797.50). 
 
[CA] Request to extend the time period in which Wyoming Horse Racing LLC d/b/a Horse 
Palace has to become operational for an additional year for their retail license, located at 5640 
High Plains Road, Cheyenne, Wyoming -- referred to Finance Committee. 
 
Appointment of Anthony Laird and Darrell Hibbens to the Planning Commission; and 
Mark Moody to the Board of Adjustment.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion carried. Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor 
Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
Reappointments of James W. Hearne to the City/County Joint Powers Board; Darin Westby 
to the Cheyenne Frontier Days Joint Powers Board;  Donald Pierson to the Police Civil Service 
Commission; Mark C. Hardee to the Fire Civil Service Commission ; Joe Patterson and Chandler 
Carroll to the Contractor Licensing Board; David Benner, Amber Conwell and Elizabeth Bales to 
the Cheyenne  Historic Preservation Board ; Kristian Richardson and Jared Dixon to the Mayor’s 
Council for People with Disabilities ; Gabriel Herrera and William Casey to the Building Code 
Board of Appeals; Dustin Brown and Curtis Clabaugh to the Board of Adjustment; Pete Laybourn 
to the Downtown Development Board; and Bryan Thomas to the  Planning Commission. Mayor 
Collins announced Mr. Laybourn requested his name be withdrawn for reappointment to the 
Downtown Development  Board.  Mr. White moved t o approve  the reappointments with the 
exception of Mr. Laybourn’s reappointment, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” - all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no” and 
Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing  to be held January 8, 2024 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference 
meeting to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute 
§ 15- 1-402 exist for about 9.39 acres of land at 5419 Ridge road (located northeast of the 
intersection of Douglas St. and Ridge Rd.) 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing  to be held January 8, 2024 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference 
meeting to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by Wyoming Statute 
§ 15- 1-402 exist for about 29.61 acres of land east of Converse Avenue and south of Storey 
Boulevard.    
 
Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting the Make-A-Wish, Wyoming, will be 
held February 2 – February 3, 2024 at the Red Lion Hotel and Conference Center, 204 W. Fox 
Farm Road.      
 
Announcement was made that due to the New Years Day holiday on Monday, January 1, 
2024, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held as follows:  
Finance Committee will meet at Noon on Tuesday, January 2, 2024 and Public Services 
Committee will meet at Noon on Wednesday, January 3, 2024.  Both meetings will be held at 2101 
O’Neil Avenue, Room 104 and via electronic conference meeting.        
 
The following member of the governing body made comment  under other business: Mr. 
Laybourn.   
 
Mr. Johnson moved to meet in executive session Pursuant to Wyoming Statute s §16-4- 
405(a)(vii), seconded by  Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open 
to the public and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the 
executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close 
of the executive session. The following staff members were in attendance:  Stefanie Boster, City 
Attorney; Charles Bloom, Planning & Development Director; Kris Jones, City Clerk; Seth Lloyd, 
Planning & Development; Brenda Moureaux, Deputy City Treasurer  and Jason Sanchez, 
Community Recreation and Events Director.      
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 8:35 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
         Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 29, 2023 
   