MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2024-01-22 | CLIP_ID: 937 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 937

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 22, 2024  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook (arriving at 6:01 
p.m.), Ken Esquibel , Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal , Tom 
Segrave and Jeff White. Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to 
be routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no 
separate discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support 
by two other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered 
in its normal sequence on the agenda).  Mr. Esquibel moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 8, 2024 .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Title 6, Animals, of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, regarding the registration, control, impoundment and general 
care of animals and birds within the city .  Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve  on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
amend by substitute  dated January 11, 2024, seconded by Mr.  Johnson.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
amend both Page 7, Section 6.08.020 (B) and Page 15, Section 6.08.150 to strike “animals” and 
replace with “livestock, birds, or nonhuman primates”, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion to amend 
the substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Motion to amend by 
substitute, as amended, carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Main motion 
as amended by substitute, as amended carried. Voting “yes”- all members of the governing body.  
Public comment was made by:  Amber Ash, Director of Strategic Initiatives, Cheyenne Animal 
Shelter.  Comment w as made by the following member of the governing body: Mayor Collins . 
(#4544) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located northeast of the intersection of Douglas Street and Ridge Road.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” –  all 
members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AR Agricultural Residential for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located northeast of the intersection of Douglas Street and Ridge Road.  
Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
         ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of Converse Avenue and south of Storey Boulevard.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve 
on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. 
                           
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural and LR Low -Density 
Residential for land annexed to the City of Cheyenne located east of Converse Avenue and south 
of Storey Boulevard.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.      
                           
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AG Agricultural and LR Low -Density 
Residential to CB Community Business and MR Medium-Density Residential for land located east 
of Converse Avenue and south of  Storey Boulevard.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from NB Neighborhood Business to CB Community 
Business for land located southeast of and adjacent to the intersection of Dell Range Boulevard 
and Bluegrass Circle.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Public comment was made 
by: Chris Lovas, Lovas Engineering, agent for the owner. 
      
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed- Use Business Emphasis to CB 
Community Business for land located north of and adjacent to Pershing Boulevard between 
McCann Avenue and College Drive.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Ordinance No. 4431, which established a new 
compensation schedule for members of the City Council of the City of Cheyenne, to clarify the 
manner in which compensation is to be computed and providing for an effective date – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying Planning Commission action amending the Future Land Use 
maps of PlanCheyenne  changing the land use category from Urban Residential to Community 
Business for property generally located east of Converse Avenue and south of Storey Boulevard.  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6382) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for The 
Bluffs, 12 th Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located East of Converse 
Avenue and South of Storey Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the efforts of the Cheyenne Soccer Club to raise funds toward 
design, construction, management, and on-going maintenance of an indoor soccer complex to be 
located on a portion of the City owned North Cheyenne Community Park – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Cook) 
 
 Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie 
County to provide funding to community agencies and monitor performance of community 
programs (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund).  Dr. Aldrich moved to approve in an amount 
not to exceed $197,524.00 for the period of 2 years, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Mayor Collins and Mr. Johnson. (#7894)        
 
 Cooperative Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, and United Way 
of Laramie County to create a Human Services Advisory Council and to coordinate and refine 
human services funding and delivery systems ( 2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $42,000.00 for the period of 4 years, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with 
the exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. (#7895) 
 
[CA] Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Sunflower Ridge LC3 
for the purchase of the BEAST Foundation Facility located at 2900 Sunflower Road, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming (General Fund Reserves).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in a purchase amount 
not to exceed $4,250,000.00 and a donation to the City in the amount of $750,000.00). (#7896)      
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and TDSi for Professional 
Design Services for the Cheyenne Depot Museum Improvements Project (2021 Specific Purpose 
Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7717 between the City of Cheyenne and TDSi for 
the Gymnastics Facility Site Development Project for additional construction services and  
extending the term of the contract (Recreation Program Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #3920 between the City of Cheyenne and Charles E. 
Bales regarding street improvements located adjacent to 3618 Charles Street  – referred to Public 
Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7728 between the City of Cheyenne and AVI for 
additional design elements for the Dell Range Design Services Project for the reconstruction of a 
portion of Dell Range Boulevard (between Van Buren Avenue and Whitney Road) (2023- 2026 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -9-24 for the Cheyenne Civic Center LED Lighting Retrofit 
Equipment Project (General Fund and Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Consolidated Electrical Distributors, 
Cheyenne, WY, in an amount not to exceed $331,500.00).   
                    
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-10-24 for two (2) five (5) deck rough mowers for the Community 
Recreation and Events Golf Division (Golf Facilities Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from LL Johnson, Denver, CO, in an amount not to exceed $172,816.60).        
                     
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-6-24 for the City of Cheyenne Community Recreation and Events 
Gymnastics Facility (Real Property Revolving Fund, Ice & Events Center Fund, General Fund 
Reserves, and ARPA Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Richardson 
Construction, Inc., Cheyenne, WY, in an amount not to exceed $5,434,182.00). (#7897) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-9-24 for the Spiker Parking Garage Restroom Renovation (2021 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Reappointment of Milo Vigil to the Building Code Board of Appeals.  Mr. Roybal moved 
to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointment). 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Comment was made by the following member of the governing body on the Revenue 
Report: Mr. Johnson.  
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins and Mr. Johnson. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:24 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
         Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 27, 2024 
   