MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2024-04-08 | CLIP_ID: 947 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 947

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 8, 2024  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Pete Laybourn (via Zoom), Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White.  Absent: 
Richard Johnson.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on March 25, 2024.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a retail liquor license transfer of location 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Scooters Scoreboard LLC d/b/a Scooter’s 
Scoreboard Bar, from 507 E. Lincolnway to 619 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY.  Comment was 
made by the following member of the governing body: Mr. Segrave.  There being no further 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing 
and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for  a retail liquor license transfer of ownership 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Wyoming Pipe Dreams, Inc. d/b/a The Lamp 
Lounge & Drive Through Package Liquor Store, 101 W. 6th St., Cheyenne, WY (license currently 
held by W.W. Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a The Lamp Lounge & Drive Through Package Liquor Store).  
Public comment was made by: Jon Coverdale.  Comment was made by the following member of 
the governing body: Dr. Aldrich.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the 
hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statue §15-1-402 exist for High Plains Road beginning at South 
Greeley Highway and terminating at Division Avenue. Public comment was made by: Brad 
Emmons, AVI. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mayor Collins.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing 
having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statue §15- 1-402 exist for about 7.3 acres of land and the 
Laramie Street right- of-way located between Saratoga St. and Whitney Road. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook and Mr. Esquibel.  
There being no further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor 
Collins closed the hearing. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statue §15- 1-402 exist for about 1.60 acres of land located 
northeast of the intersection of Dell Range Blvd. and Griffith Ave .  There being no comment or 
input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MR Medium -Density Residential to NR -2 
Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density for land located south of West 5th Street between 
Patton Avenue and Snyder Avenue. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved 
to approve on thir d and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Motion carried. Voting “yes” –  
all members of the governing body present. (#4556) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located southwest of the I-25 and I-80 Interchange adjacent to Roundtop Rd.  Mr. Roybal moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present. (#4557) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural, LR Low-Density Residential, 
MR Medium -Density Residential, HI Heavy Industrial, and CB Community Business for land 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne located southwest of the I -25 and I-80 Interchange adjacent to 
Roundtop Road.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Cook.  
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4558) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural, LR Low -Density Residential, 
MR Medium -Density Residential, HI Heavy Industrial, and CB Community Business to AG 
Agricultural and LI L ight Industrial for land located southwest of the I -25 and I -80 Interchange 
adjacent to Roundtop Rd.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by 
Mr. Cook.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4559) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed- Use Business Emphasis to CB 
Community Business for land located at Lot 2, Block 1, Q -B Subdivision – referred to Public 
Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)       
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, High 
Plains Road beginning at South Greeley Highway and terminating at Division Avenue  – referred 
to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)       
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of Saratoga Street and west of Whitney Road – referred to Public Services Committee.   
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)       
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AR Agricultural Residential for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located east of Saratoga Street and south of and adjacent to Laramie Street 
– referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located at 4204 Dell Range Boulevard – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal)       
    
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of City MR Medium Density Residential for land 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne located at 4204 Dell Range Boulevard – referred to Public 
Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)    
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to P Public District 
for land located at Lot 1, Cheyenne Ice & Events Center, 2 nd Filing located at 1530 West 
Lincolnway – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)       
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Cheyenne Terrace, 2nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of 
Converse Avenue and south of Storey Boulevard). (CLERK’S NOTE: the location of this Final 
Plat is in fact “south of West 5 th Street between Patton Avenue and Snyder Avenue.  A substitute 
correcting the entitlement language will be presented prior to final approval). Mr. Roybal moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. White. Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated April 1, 2024, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” –  all 
members of the governing body present. (#6397) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Requiring the study and submittal of a report to the Governing Body 
analyzing the best avenue for correcting deficiencies and improving and maintaining the west 
entryway to the Municipal Building to enhance public perception and experience.   Mr. Roybal 
advised there was no recommendation from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion fail ed.  Voting “ no” – all members of the governing 
body present.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Cook and Mr. Segrave.  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the adoption of the 
Cheyenne/Laramie County Emergency Operations Plan – referred to Public Services Committee. 
(Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Carey 
Cottages, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southeast of the intersection of 
Grove Drive and Cheyenne Street)  – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Sun 
Rise Hills North Subdivision, 3rd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)   
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Atmos Technologies 
for a supply of alternative daily cover foam for the City of Cheyenne Happy Jack Landfill  (Solid 
Waste Fund) .  Reporting for Finance Committee, Dr. Aldrich advised there was no 
recommendation from Finance Committee . Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the governing body present.  
 
[CA] Grant Agreement for Wyoming Outdoor Recreation grant funds between the City of 
Cheyenne and State of Wyoming, Department of State Parks and Cultural Resources, Division of 
State Parks, Historic Sites and Trails for the Belvoir Ranch Trail (Belvoir Ranch Recreation Fund 
and Wyoming Outdoor Recreation Grant).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7949) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and DHM Design PC for 
engineering services for the 15 th Street Master Plan Project  (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #7531 between the City of Cheyenne and Waste 
Management of Colorado, Inc. for recycling services through April 15, 2025 (Solid Waste Fund).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $250,000.00). (#7531) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-11-24 for six (6) trucks for the City of Cheyenne (mid-size, 1 ton, 
cab & chassis) (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund, 2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund, 
and Weed & Pest Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid from Ken Garff 
Cheyenne in an amount not to exceed $364,251.00).  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-13-24 for three (3) motorcycles for the City of Cheyenne Police 
Department (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted the bid from PS CO1, LLC, d/b/a Northern Colorado Powersports in an amount not to 
exceed $76,493.34).   
                     
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -8-24 for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group Inc. d/b/a Knife River, for the Powderhouse & Carlson Intersection Signal Project  (2019-
2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid in an 
amount not to excced $1,229,369.00). (#7950) 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Atmos 
Technologies, for providing daily cover on the active working face of the City of Cheyenne Happy 
Jack Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-2-24 for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Asphalt 
Preservation, LLC, for the 2024 Surface Seal Project #1 (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-14-24 for 1.5 cubic yard rear-load dumpsters (Solid Waste Fund) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-15-24 for furnishing Bituminous Asphalt Hot Mix, Tack Oil, and 
Cold Mix on an annual basis, for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019-2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
                     
[CA] Restaurant liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Rebecca Andrew 
Ventures, Inc. d/b/a Mr. Jim’s Pizza, 4001 Laramie St., Unit A, Cheyenne, WY.  Motion (per 
consent agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Request to extend the time period in which The Blue Stem Wine House LLC has to become 
operational for an additional year for their winery license located at 1909 Warren Ave., Cheyenne, 
WY.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
  
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held April 22, 2024 at 6:00 p.m. in 
City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference 
meeting, for the City’s Annual Action Plan for Program Year 2024 prepared by the Cheyenne 
Housing and Community Development Division.    
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business:  Dr. 
Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. 
 
Mr. Esquibel moved to meet in executive session Pursuant to Wyoming Statute s §16-4- 
405(a)(vii), seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Mayor Collins announced members would meet in executive session, not open 
to the public and stated there would be no action taken by the governing body as a result of the 
executive session, and that the regular City Council meeting would officially conclude at the close 
of the executive session. The following staff members were in attendance: Stefanie  Boster, City 
Attorney; Robin Lockman, City Treasurer; Andrew Dykshorn, Deputy Chief, Cheyenne Fire 
Rescue; Kipp Sanders, Battalion Chief, Cheyenne Fire Rescue;  Charles Bloom, Planning & 
Development Director and Kris Jones, City Clerk.  
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:06 p.m. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
         Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  April 17, 2024 
   