MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2024-04-22 | CLIP_ID: 949 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 949

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
April 22, 2024  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich (via Zoom), Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn (arriving at 6:01 p.m.), Dr. Mark Rinne, Tom Segrave 
and Jeff White.  Absent: Scott Roybal .  Also present: Kris Jones , City Clerk.   The pledge of 
allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda).  Mr. Esquibel moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on April 8 , 2024.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for the City’s Annual Action Plan for Program Year 
2024 prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Division.  There being no 
further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the 
hearing.  Public comment was made by: Dan Dorsch, Executive Director, Habitat for Humanity of 
Laramie County, Angie Dorsch, Executive Director, Equal Justice Wyoming and Kristin-Erin 
Balderaz, Executive Director, Needs, Inc.  Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Esquibel. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed- Use Business Emphasis to CB 
Community Business for land located at Lot 2, Block 1, Q -B Subdivision. Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.       
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, High 
Plains Road beginning at South Greeley Highway and terminating at Division Avenue.  Dr. Rinne 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present. 
       
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of Saratoga Street and west of Whitney Road.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AR Agricultural Residential for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located east of Saratoga Street and south of and adjacent to Laramie Street.  
Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.   
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located at 4204 Dell Range Boulevard.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.       
    
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of City MR Medium Density Residential for land 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne located at 4204 Dell Range Boulevard . Dr. Rinne moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” –  all 
members of the governing body present.       
 
 ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from CB Community Business to P Public District 
for land located at Lot 1, Cheyenne Ice & Events Center, 2 nd Filing located at 1530 West 
Lincolnway.  Dr. Rinne moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Comment was made by the 
following member of the governing body: Dr. Rinne. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Sections 1.4.3 Defined Terms and 5.8.8 
Accessory Buildings of the Unified Development Code, clarifying Detached Buildings – referred 
to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)         
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Ordinance No. 4519 amending the Official 
Zoning Map of the City of Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from HI Heavy Industrial, 
AG Agricultural, and County A-2 to LI Light Industrial for land located west of Burlington Trail 
and south of and adjacent to HR Ranch Road – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor 
– Mr. Roybal)         
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Subsections 6.5.4.b.3 Incentives / Bonus, 
6.5.4.b.4 Creative Sign Program, and 6.5.8.j Billboards of the Unified Development Code, to 
restructure sign incentives and bonuses by modifying allowances for signs near interstate 
highways, al lowances for shared signs, eliminating the Creative Sign Program, and clarifying 
applicability of certain billboard allowances – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – 
Mr. Roybal)   
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending Section 5.1.5 of the Unified Development 
Code to allow for up to three stories for detached dwellings, semi-attached dwellings, and attached 
dwellings – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)         
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending and updating the Solid Waste Fee Schedule 
in accordance with Section 8.44.010 of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
and repealing Ordinance No. 4503 – referred to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich)          
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Sections 10.82.030 and 10.82.040 of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, modifying the term of Dockless Vehicle 
licenses, specifying an effective date and making other conforming amendments  – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsors – Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the adoption of the 
Cheyenne/Laramie County Emergency Operations Plan.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
(#6398) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Carey 
Cottages, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southeast of the intersection of 
Grove Drive and Cheyenne Street).  Dr. Rinne moved to adopt with staff recommendations 1 (a) 
and (b) and 2 (a) and (b) which includes acknowledgements of r elief of access to a street for lots 
less than 36’ wide (Subdivision Standards Waiver) and a r eduction in a rear setback 
(Administrative Adjustment); and prior to r ecording a 10- foot utility easement be added along 
Cheyenne Street and a public access easement be added along Cheyenne Street for a 6 -foot 
attached sidewalk, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  Public comment was made by: Brandon Swain, applicant and Dan 
Dorsch, Vice Chair, Affordable Housing Task Force. (#6399) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Sun 
Rise Hills North Subdivision, 3rd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming.  Dr. Rinne 
moved to adopt with staff recommendation to grant the exception to maximum block size, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. Public comment was made by: Elizabeth 
Stapel, Rebecca M urchie, Mark Christensen, AVI, representative for the applicant and Dan 
Dorsch, Vice Chair, Affordable Housing Task Force.  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. 
(#6400) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Adopting the City of Cheyenne 2024 Program Year Annual Action Plan 
prepared by the City of Cheyenne Housing & Community Development Office – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving water and/or sanitary sewer service, by Outside User 
Agreement, for Robert GrandPre, for the property at Lot 1, Block 1, Green Subdivision, 4th Filing, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (east of Ridge Road and north of and adjacent to Green Court)  – 
referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)       
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and DHM Design PC for 
engineering services for the 15 th Street Master Plan Project  (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund). Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$153,055.00, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Mr. White moved to amend the funding to come from 
general reserves, seconded by Mr. Laybourn.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Cook and  Dr. Rinne voting 
“no”. Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present 
with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”. (#7958) 
[CA] Improvement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and DB Cheyenne, LLC for 
acceptance of cash-in-lieu for public improvements including a turn lane, as required by the UDC 
and Traffic Impact Study for the development – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Univerus, Inc., for the 
Sanitation Rerouting and Optimization Project  (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #2 to Contract #7775 between the City of Cheyenne and Sunrise 
Engineering for additional engineering services for the 7 th Street Drainage and Access 
Improvements Project (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.    
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7897 between the City of Cheyenne and Richardson 
Construction, Inc. for the Gymnastics Facility Project (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration to Purchase for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Atmos 
Technologies, for providing daily cover on the active working face of the City of Cheyenne Happy 
Jack Landfill (Solid Waste Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $270,000.00). (#7959) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-2-24 for an agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Asphalt 
Preservation, LLC, for the 2024 Surface Seal Project #1 (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $1,791,141.00). (#7960) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-14-24 for 1.5 cubic yard rear-load dumpsters (Solid Waste Fund).  
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (accepted the bid from Kois Brothers Equipment, Commerce 
City, CO, in an amount not to exceed $78,360.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-15-24 for furnishing Bituminous Asphalt Hot Mix, Tack Oil, and 
Cold Mix on an annual basis, for the City of Cheyenne, Street & Alley Division (2019-2022 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) .  Motion (per consent agenda) carried (accepted the bid from JTL 
Group Inc. d/b/a Knife River, Cheyenne, for hot mix and cold mix in the amount of $438,250.00 
and from Simon Contractors, Cheyenne, for tack oil in the amount of $14,400.00 for a total bid of 
$453,150.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-12-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and JTL 
Group Inc. d/b/a Knife River, for the 2024 City Overlay #1 Project (2021 Specific Purpose Option 
Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
                            
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-13-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors, for the 2024 City Overlay #2 Project  (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund)  – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
                               
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -15-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Asphalt Preservation, LLC, for the 2024 Surface Seal Project #2 (2021 Specific Purpose Option 
Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
                     
[CA] Retail liquor license transfer of location application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for 
Scooters Scoreboard LLC d/b/a Scooter’s Scoreboard Bar, from 507 E. Lincolnway to 619 E. 
Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Retail liquor license transfer of ownership application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for Wyoming Pipe Dreams, Inc. d/b/a The Lamp Lounge & Drive Through Package Liquor Store, 
101 W. 6th St., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by W.W. Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a The Lamp 
Lounge & Drive Through Package Liquor Store). Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Public 
comment was made by: Jon Coverdale.  Comments were made by the following members of the 
governing body: Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Johnson. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business: Mr. 
Laybourn, Mr. Johnson and Mr. White. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:31 p.m. 
 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
         Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  May 1, 2024 
   