MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2024-05-28 | CLIP_ID: 955 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 955

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
May 28, 2024  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne (arriving at 6:02 p.m.), Scott Roybal, and Jeff 
White. Absent: Tom Segrave.  Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was 
recited. 
 
 Expression of Appreciation of the 2023- 2024 Mayor’s Youth Council and State of the 
Youth Address was made. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda).  Mr. Johnson declared a conflict of interest  due to items related 
to his employment.  Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Johnson 
and Dr. Rinne, item #33(c) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve 
remaining items, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mr. Johnson who did not vote.  
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on May 13, 2024.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing regarding the City’s intent to apply for a 2024 
Wyoming Business Council Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for a 
Community Readiness Project for essential infrastructure at the Precision Industrial Park.   There 
being no comments or input and purpose of the public hearing having been met, Mayor Collins 
closed the public hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Sections 1.4.3 Defined Terms and 5.8.8 
Accessory Buildings of the Unified Development Code, clarifying Detached Buildings. Reporting 
for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. White.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated May 21, 2024, seconded by Dr. 
Rinne. Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich  voting “no”. Main motion as amended by substitute 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mayor Collins. (#4567) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Ordinance No. 4519 amending the Official 
Zoning Map of the City of Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from HI Heavy Industrial, 
AG Agricultural, and County A-2 to LI Light Industrial for land located west of Burlington Trail 
and south of and adjacent to HR Ranch Road.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on thir d and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. (#4568) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Subsections 6.5.4.b.3 Incentives / Bonus, 
6.5.4.b.4 Creative Sign Program, and 6.5.8.j Billboards of the Unified Development Code, to 
restructure sign incentives and bonuses by modifying allowances for signs near interstate 
highways, al lowances for shared signs, eliminating the Creative Sign Program, and clarifying 
applicability of certain billboard allowances .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on thir d and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated May 21, 2024, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present.  Main m otion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” –  all 
members of the governing body present. (#4569) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 5.1.5 of the Unified Development 
Code to allow for up to three stories for detached dwellings, semi-attached dwellings, and attached 
dwellings.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comment was 
made by: Brenda Birkle, Affordable Housing Task Force and Brandon Swain. (#4570)   
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending and updating the Solid Waste Fee Schedule 
in accordance with Section 8.44.010 of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
and repealing Ordinance No. 4503. Reporting for  Finance Committee , Dr. Aldrich moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr . White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” –  all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”. (#4571)  
    
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Sections 10.82.030 and 10.82.040 of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, modifying the term of Dockless Vehicle 
licenses, specifying an effective date and making other conforming amendments .  Dr. Aldrich 
moved to approve on thir d and final reading, seconded by Mr . White.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present.  (#4572) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Approving and establishing revised water and sewer 
rates, tap and system development fees, administrative fees, service charges and penalties, and 
septic and commercial waste dump rates, as recommended by the Board of Public Utilities .  Dr. 
Aldrich moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Roybal.  Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. 
White voting “no”.  Public comment was made by: Brenda Birkle, Affordable Housing Task Force.  
Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich.  
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Chapter 5.78, Towing and Wrecker Recovery 
Operations, of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, modifying provisions governing towing and wrecker recovery operation 
licensure and the Police Department’s towing and wrecker recovery operation rotation list .  Mr. 
Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comment was made by: Dave Rose, 
Big Al’s Towing.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich and Mr. White. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Appropriating moneys for the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming for the various purposes in conducting the municipal government of said City and fixing 
the amount of general and special taxes as part of the revenue required to meet the said 
appropriation, all for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2024 and ending June 30, 2025.  Reporting 
for Committee of the Whole, Mr. Esquibel moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
Roybal.  Mr. Esquibel moved to amend by substitute dated May 23, 2024 (by increasing the City 
Council Department’s Ward I Discretionary Account by $11,666.67, the Ward II Discretionary 
Account by $11,666.67 and the Ward III Discretionary Account by $11,666.66 and by decreasing 
the Miscellaneous Department’s Insurance and Bonding line item by $35,000.00) , seconded by 
Mr. Roybal.  Motion to amend carried.  V oting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
Dr. Rinne moved to amend by increasing the Mayor’s salary to $125,000.  Motion died due to lack 
of a second.  Main motion as amended carried.  V oting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present with the exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”. Public comment was made by: Erin LeBlanc, 
Director, Laramie County Senior Services.   Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Defining the Terms and Conditions of employment for 
sworn officers of the Cheyenne Police Department for Fiscal Year 2024- 2025, repealing and 
replacing Ordinance Nos. 4520 and 4539 –  referred to Finance Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. 
WHITE) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Sections 1.4.3 Defined Terms and 2.2.6 
Temporary Use Approval of the Unified Development Code, adding a minimum of fourteen days 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. ROYBAL)           
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 1.4.4.c Service Uses, Table 5- 1 
Zoning District Uses, Section 5.7.4 Child Care Uses, and Table 6 -2 Required Parking of the 
Unified Development Code, changing Child Care Requirements  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (SPONSOR – MR. ROYBAL) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Creating Section 10.24.190, Critical Traffic Control 
Areas; Creation and Administration; Enhanced Penalties, of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, authorizing the designation of Critical Traffic Control Areas and authorizing 
enhanced penalties as specified  – referred to Public Services Committee.  (SPONSORS – DR. 
ALDRICH, MR. COOK, MR. ESQUIBEL, MR. JOHNSON, MR. ROYBAL, MR. SEGRAVE 
AND MR. WHITE)           
 
 RESOLUTION – Adopting the fee schedule setting the approved towing service rates for 
towing charges related to calls for service by the Cheyenne Police Department made pursuant to 
the tow rotation list.  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present .  Public comment was made by: Dave Rose, 
Big Al’s Towing and Jerry Hargraves, Wrecker’s Towing.  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Roybal. 
(#6403) 
 RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the submission of an 
application by the Cheyenne Transit Program to the Wyoming Department of Transportation for 
grant funding under the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program .  Dr. Aldrich  moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr. White.  Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by substitute dated May 20, 2024, seconded 
by Mr. White.  Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”. (#6404)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the submission of an application to the Wyoming Business 
Council under the Wyoming Business Ready Community Grant and Loan Program for an 
Enhancement Grant in support of the development of the Precision Industrial Park.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6405) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Cheyenne Business Parkway, Thirteenth Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming 
(located west of Christensen Road and south of and adjacent to Campstool Road) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6406) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Centennial Heritage, 3 rd Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located east of 
Savannah Drive and south and north of Raleigh Drive) .  Mr. Roybal  moved to adopt with staff 
conditions #1 & 2, seconded by Dr. Rinne .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#6407) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving sanitary sewer service, by Outside User Agreement, for 
Laramie County, for the property known as the Archer Complex (south of the I -80 and Archer 
Parkway Interchange).  Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Public comment was made by: Molly 
Bennett, Laramie County Public Works and Ben Hornok.  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White. (#6408)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board for the 
for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2024 and ending June 30, 2025.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#6409) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving the budget of the Cheyenne Downtown Development 
Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2024 and ending June 30, 2025.  Dr. Aldrich moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Laybourn. (#6410) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities to discharge 
uncollectible debts pursuant to Wyoming Statute 16- 4-502 – referred to Finance Committee.  
(SPONSOR – DR. RINNE)  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the adoption of a Vision Zero Policy to eliminate fatalities 
and serious injuries that are a result of crashes on city streets within the City of Cheyenne by 2040 
– referred to Public Services Committee.  (SPONSOR – DR. ALDRICH)  
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Landmark Aquatics, 
for the Johnson Pool Evaluation and Design Project (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) .  
Dr. Aldrich advised there was no recommendation from Finance Committee.  Dr. Aldrich moved 
to approve in an amount not to exceed $236,957.00.  Motion died due to lack of a second.  
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and TPT Trails, LLC for 
the Belvoir Ranch, Phase 2 Design Build Trail Project  (Belvoir Recreation Fund) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $219,672.93). (#7975) 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and the U.S. 
Department of Transportation for a Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Section 5307 Transit 
Capital Grant for the replacement of transit vehicles over the next three-year period (FTA Section 
5307 Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO) and Quandel Consultants, Inc., for the Passenger Rail Station Site 
Selection Study (MPO Funds, County Funds and 2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax) – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and The Design Studio, 
Inc. (TDSi), for the Johnson Pool Evaluation and Design Project  (2021 Specific Purpose Option 
Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Just Be You, Inc. d/b/a 
Star Playgrounds, for the Saddle Ridge Playground Design and Installation Project (Development 
Impact Fees) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Section 20 LLC for land 
located at the northeast corner of Powderhouse Road and East Carlson Street  (Public Safety 
Infrastructure Fees) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and William H. Smith and 
Associates (WHS), for design services for the Cheyenne - Three Alleyway Project (2021 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, and Laramie County School District No. 1 for the School Resource Officers Program 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #7535 between the City of Cheyenne and Blue Cross Blue Shield of 
Wyoming for Third Party Administrator Services and Group Health Insurance benefits for City 
employees (Self Insurance Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7535)       
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #6837 between the City of Cheyenne and Delta Dental for Group 
Dental Insurance benefits for City employees (Various City Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6837) 
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #7523 between the City of Cheyenne and VSP Vision Insurance 
benefits for City employees (Various City Funds).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#7523)         
 
[CA] Renewal of Contract #7536 between the City of Cheyenne and Granular Insurance 
Company for Stop Loss Insurance for City employees (Self Insurance Fund).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7536) 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7769 between the City of Cheyenne and Terracon 
Consultants, Inc., for landfill leachate system maintenance services to extend the contract for 2 
years (Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.          
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7760 between the City of Cheyenne and Miller & 
Sons Construction Inc. for the 2023 Miscellaneous Concrete Project for additional concrete curb, 
gutter, sidewalk and valley pans  (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund)  – referred to Finance 
Committee.           
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -10-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Reiman Corp for the HAWK Signals Construction Project (2019- 2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda)  carried (accepted the bid in an amount not to exceed 
$831,294.75). (#7976) 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S-20-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Simon 
Contractors for the Public Works Improvements Project (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund, 
Solid Waste Fund, & Fleet Maintenance Fund).  Dr. Aldrich moved to accept the bid in an amount 
not to exceed $2,377,017.25, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Dr. Aldrich moved to amend to include 
funding the amount of $124,140.50 from General Fund Reserves for maintenance repairs to the 
Municipal Building, seconded by Mr.  Roybal.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present.  Main motion as amended carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. 
White voting “no”.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. 
Rinne and Mr. White. (#7977)  
 
 Consideration of Bid #S-21-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Spire 
Building Group for the Municipal Building Restroom Renovations Project (2021 Specific Purpose 
Option Tax Fund) . Dr. Aldrich moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $625,850.00, 
seconded by Dr. Rinne .  Motion failed.  Voting “yes” – Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Roybal.  Voting 
“no” – Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. White.  Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. 
Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White.  
 
 
                               
 [CA] Consideration of Bid #S -22-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Richardson Construction, Inc. for the Hitching Post Storm Sewer and Paul Smith Way Project  
(2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $1,693,498.45). (#7978) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -17-24 for the Cheyenne Junior League Bleachers Replacement 
(equipment only) Project (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.       
                               
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-14-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and S & 
S Builders, LLC, for the 2024 Dell Range Concrete Repair for Overlay Project  (2023-2026 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund and 2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
            
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -16-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Asphalt Preservation, LLC, for the 2024 Crack Seal #1 Project (2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
                               
[CA] Consideration of Bid E-19-24 for one (1) new sliding axle transportation trailer for the City 
of Cheyenne Street & Alley Division  (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund)  – referred to 
Finance Committee.        
                            
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-20-24 for one (1) new 2024-2025, 19,500 GVWR, cab & chassis 
with 45 foot aerial device body for the City of Cheyenne Traffic Division (2019-2022 Optional 
1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
                               
[CA] Request to amend a previously approved outdoor seating area for consumption by adding 
an additional area relating to City of Cheyenne Bar & Grill liquor license held by Paris West 
Restaurant and Bar, located at 1719 Carey Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Request to extend the time period in which Cheyenne Regional Airport Board d/b/a Cloud 
Nine Restaurant & Bar has to become operational for an additional year for their retail license, 
located at 300 East 8th Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Appointment of Elisabeth DeGrenier to the Historic Preservation Board and Christopher 
Mickey to the Cheyenne Housing Authority Board. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by 
Mr. Roybal.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the 
exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (Mayoral appointments). 
  
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Comment was made by the following member of the governing body related to the 
Revenue Report: Mr. Johnson.  
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 10, 2024 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
for proposed budgets for the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities for Fiscal Year 2025.   
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held June 10, 2024 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
to receive comments and input for the Jolly Roger Urban Renewal Plan and Project as required by 
Wyoming Statute § 15-9-109.  
 
Announcement was made of a Committee of the Whole meeting to be held on Monday, 
June 3, 2024 at 6:30 p.m. in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and 
via electronic conference meeting. 
 
Public comment was made by the following under other business: Brandon Swain. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business:  Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Johnson. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:57 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
         Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  June 6, 2024 
   