MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2024-07-08 | CLIP_ID: 964 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 964

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
July 8, 2024  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel, 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne , Tom Segrave and Jeff White . Absent: Scott 
Roybal Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda ). Mr. Segrave moved to approve  remaining items, seconded by 
Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the 
exception of Mr. Johnson voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on June 24, 2024.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from MUB Mixed-Use Business to CB Community 
Business for land located northeast of the intersection of Cheyenne Street and Ridge Road.  
Reporting for Public Services Committee Dr. Rinne moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Mr.  Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
present. (#4580) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 10.16.150, Parking Violation 
Hearings and Appeal Procedures, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
modifying the procedures governing the Administrative Review of Parking Citations, making 
conforming amendments and repealing an obsolete provision. Dr. Rinne moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. 
  
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Creating Section 10.60.015, Paid On- Street Parking 
Districts; Establishment, Administration, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, establishing the Paid On- Street Parking Districts Program and making conforming 
amendments as sp ecified. Dr. Rinne  moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend item A3 under 10.04.020 changing the central business 
district boundaries by extending it north to 24 th Street and limiting it to Warren on the e ast, 
seconded by Dr. Rinne. Amendment failed. Voting “ no” – all members of the governing body  
present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “yes” . Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present.  Public comment was made by: Matt Hanger. Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
Laybourn, and Mr. Segrave.  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the submission of an application by the City of Cheyenne 
for federal funding through the Transportation Alternatives Program administered by the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation for the purpose of construction for a Greenway path for 
pedestrians and bicycles from the Sun Valley Open Space into Kiwanis Community Park. Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6416)   
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the Cheyenne Regional Airport Board in the application for 
and acceptance of federal assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration under the 
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to assist in the rehabilitation of the air traffic control tower. Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6417) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of tracts of land situate in portions of Sections 4 and 5, T13N, R67W, 6th 
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (also known as ‘North Range Business Park’, located northwest 
of the I-80 and Roundtop Road interchange) – referred to Public Services Committee. (SPONSOR 
– MR. ROYBAL) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the submission of a 
petition by the Governing Body to the Downtown Development Authority for inclusion of property 
in the Downtown Development District – referred to Public Services Committee.  (SPONSORS – 
MR. LAYBOURN, MR. ROYBAL, MR. SEGRAVE AND MR. WHITE) 
 
[CA] Grant of Utility Easement between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Light, Fuel and 
Power Company d/b/a Black Hills Energy located on a portion of Lot 8, Block 1, Centennial 
Heritage 2nd Filing, City owned property. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#8002)    
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne Frontier 
Days, Inc., for the use of City-owned land and buildings for parking, camping, and other activities 
during the 2024 Cheyenne Frontier Days Celebration (Revenue to the City) Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#8003)   
 
[CA] Minimum Revenue Guaranteed Payment Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
the Cheyenne Regional Air Service Focus Team (CRAFT) for Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 2025.  
(2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Juvenile Housing Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County for the 
housing of juvenile detainees in the Laramie County Juvenile Services Center located at the Archer 
Complex.  (General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County Sheriff’s Department and 
Laramie County for housing prisoners at the Laramie County Detention Center.  (General Fund) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Improvement Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Brakes Plus, LLC for 
Pedestrian Connectivity Improvements Cash- In-Lieu of Right -Of-Way Improvements for 
development of a Brakes Plus. – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Land Lease between the City of Cheyenne and Swan Ranch Cheyenne Rail, L.L.C. which 
supersedes and replaces the Railcar Storage Agreement, City Contract #7665, by and between 
Cheyenne Rail Hub, LLC. – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 for the Cheyenne Transmission, Pump Station and Tank 2020 
Project Agreement.  (Drinking Water SRF and Wyoming Water Development and ARPA Grants) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -25-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Wescom, Inc. for the Norris Viaduct Lighting Modifications & I -180 Pedestrian Bridge Lighting 
Project (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund)  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an 
amount not to exceed $181,249.20). (#8004) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-17-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Miller 
& Sons Construction, Inc. for the 2024 Miscellaneous Concrete Project.  (2023-2026 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -23-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Streamline Markings for the 2024 Epoxy Striping Project.  (2023- 2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax 
Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -21-24 for or one (1) new 2024 to 2026 Low Ground 
Pressure/Waste Handling Dozer (42,000 lb min. operating weight) for the Landfill Division.  
(Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-22-24 for one (1) new 2024 to 2026 Low Ground Pressure/Waste 
Handling Dozer (50,000 lb min. operating weight) for the Landfill Division.  (Solid Waste Fund)  
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Appointment of Jennifer Godonis to the Cheyenne Housing Authority Board. Mr. Segrave 
moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Aldrich . Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (Mayoral 
appointments). 
 
 Appointments of Scott Homar, Jason Wasserburger and Nate Nicholas as Municipal Court 
Magistrate Hearing Judges. Mr. Segrave  moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne . Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor 
Collins who did not vote (Mayoral appointments). 
 
 DDA Plan of Development Update. Comments were made by the following members of 
the governing body: Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, and Mr. Segrave.    
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made that the July 22, 2024 City Council meeting will be held in City Council 
Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic conference meeting at 
Noon instead of 6:00 p.m. 
 
Public comment was made by the following under Other Business: Mareon Stolp. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under other business:  Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, and Mr. White. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:44 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  July 12, 2024 
   