MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2024-08-12 | CLIP_ID: 967 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 967

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 12, 2024  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Ken Esquibel, Richard Johnson, 
Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne (joined via Zoom at 6:01 p.m.) , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and 
Jeff White. Absent: Bryan Cook. Also present: Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk.  The pledge of 
allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda ).  Mr. Segrave requested item #15 be removed from the consent 
agenda. Support was received by only one member, Mr. Esquibel, so the item remained on the 
Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried. Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Collins and Mr. 
Segrave voting “no”. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on J uly 22, 2024.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for 307 Racing Management, Inc. d/b/a 307 Racing, 
3310 Ridge Road, Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by Keg, Inc d/b/a D.T.’s Liquor Mart & 
Tusker Bar).  Public comment was made by: Kyle Ridgeway, President, 307 Racing Management, 
Inc.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. There being no  
further comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the 
public hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statue § 15-1-402 exist for about 8.80 acres of land located west 
of Converse Avenue and north of Dell Range Blvd. There being no comments or input and purpose 
of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statue § 15-1-402 exist for about .035 acres of land located east 
of US 30 and north of and adjacent to E. Pershing Blvd. Public comment was made by: James 
O’Connor, landowner. Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: 
Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins and Mr. Johnson.  There being no further comments or input and 
purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing. 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located west of Converse Avenue and north of Dell Range Boulevard – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural for land annexed to the City  
of Cheyenne located west of Converse Avenue and north of Dell Range Boulevard – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AG Agricultural to NR -3 Neighborhood 
Residential - High Density for land located west of Converse Avenue and north of Dell Range  
Boulevard – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of US -30 and north of and adjacent to East Pershing Boulevard – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
            ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of MUR Mixed-Use Residential for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located east of US-30 and north of and adjacent to East Pershing Boulevard 
– referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to CB Community Business 
for land located northeast of the intersection of Hutchins Drive and Industry Drive  – referred to 
Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LR Low-Density Residential to CB Community 
Business for land located at 3501 Forest Drive (located southeast of the intersection of Pershing 
Boulevard and Forest Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 2.76.040, Designation of Downtown 
Development District, of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, 
Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
expand the Downtown Development District – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsors 
– Mr. Laybourn, Mr. Roybal, Mr. Seagrave, and Mr. White)    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Supporting the Clean Crow Creek Initiative on behalf of the Governing 
Body for the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6420) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending the City of Cheyenne 2023 Program Year Annual Action 
Plan, prepared by the Cheyenne Housing & Community Development Office .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6421) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing submission of an application to the Wyoming State Loan 
and Investment Board for a loan from the Wyoming Drinking Water State Revolving Fund for the 
Hypochlorite Generation Project in the amount of four million dollars and authorizing the Director 
of the Board of Public Utilities to execute the application and all related documents . Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6422) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County 
to provide probation/diversion services to youth appearing in both the Laramie County Circuit 
Court and the Municipal Court for the City of Cheyenne  (Revenue to the City) . Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#8025) 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and Laramie County 
to provide services to the Laramie County Juvenile Crisis Shelter  (Revenue to the City) . Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. (#8026) 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Lotus Engineering & 
Sustainability, LLC, for the Comprehensive Climate Action Plan (CCAP) Preparation for 
Cheyenne, Wyoming (EPA Climate Pollution Reduction Grant (CPRG))  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and the Laramie 
County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for case management services and 
substance abuse prevention and evaluation (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the US Endowment for Forestry and 
Communities for a National Forests Grant for protecting source water and reducing wildfire risk 
for rural communities (US Endowment for Forestry and Communities Grant) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization 
(MPO) and the US Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration to develop a 
Comprehensive Safety Action Plan (Federal Highway Administration SS4A Grant and 2021 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
    
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7975 between the City of Cheyenne and TPT Trails 
for additional design-build services and trail maintenance for the Belvoir Ranch, Phase 2 Design-
Build Trail Project (Belvoir Recreation Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -18-24 for SCBA (Self Contained Breathing Apparatus) 
Compressors for Cheyenne Fire Rescue  (Homeland Security, Assistance to Firefighters Grant) . 
Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $399,829.08).   
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-29-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Miller 
and Sons Construction, Inc. for the Vandehei Repair and Restoration Project  (General Fund 
Reserves). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $180,652.10). 
(#8027)  
 Appointment of Robert R. Rose as Municipal Court Magistrate Hearing Judge. Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (Mayoral 
appointments). 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
Notice of Emergency Procurement  was given. In accordance with the City of Cheyenne 
Purchasing Policy, an Emergency Procurement has been authorized by Mayor Collins for the Civic 
Center Roof Drain Failure Repair.  The emergency repair has been authorized to Master 
Mechanical, Inc. for a total of $100,000.00 (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund and General 
Fund).  Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, 
Mayor Collins, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Roybal.  
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Segrave.  
  
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:55 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        Deputy City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  August 21, 2024 
   