MEETING: Special City Council Meeting | DATE: 2024-08-12 | CLIP_ID: 972 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 972

   
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 12, 2024 
 
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in special session on this date beginning 
at 7:01 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting, for the purpose of 
collective labor bargaining with the Cheyenne Professional Firefighters, International Association 
of Firefighters, Local No. 279.  Present were: MAYOR – Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS 
– Dr. Michelle Aldrich,  Ken Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne  (via 
Zoom), Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White.  Absent: Bryan Cook.  Also  present: Kylie 
Soden, Deputy City Clerk, Amber Ash, Chief of Staff, Stefanie Boster, City Attorney, John Brodie, 
Deputy City Attorney, Robin Lockman, City Treasurer and Chief John Kopper, Cheyenne Fire 
Rescue.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
   
Mayor Collins advised the special session was for the purpose of re-negotiating the existing 
contract labor agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Fire Union. He briefly provided 
details relating to the proposed Ground Rules for the special session and the Ground Rules were 
agreed upon and signed by the City and Union. Vincent McQueeney , spokesperson for the 
Cheyenne Professional Fire fighters, International Association of Fire fighters, Local No. 279, 
expressed appreciation to the City for their continued collaboration in working with the Union to 
address and update the contract. Mayor Collins advised the only sections that would be opened for 
re-negotiation are Section 2 – Definitions, Section 4 – Terms of Agreement, Section 13 – 
Management Rights, Section 15 – Department Staffing, Section 21 – Classification of 
Employment and Basic Wages and Section 27 – Sick Leave.  Mayor Collins provided information 
on the City’s and Union’s requested changes for each section of the contract which include: Section 
2 – Definitions – acceptable fire-training academy, Cadre/Training Instructor, Ladder Company 
and Squad/Support Company; Section 4 – Terms of Agreement – update term date; Section 13 – 
Management Rights – additional management right to address organizational risk; Section 15 – 
Staffing – update department staffing level to 100, increase how many firefighters are assigned to 
each shift to 29, remove Front Range Fire Academy, increase staffing of Suppression, Community 
Risk Reduction and Support and Administration divisions to 98; Section 21 – Classification of 
Employment and Basic Wages – update to reflect current compensation program, table updated to 
reflect Cost -of-Living Adjustment and Section 27 – Sick Leave – update to reflect proper 
conversion requirements outlined in Section 24 for sick leave for daytime personnel.  The City and 
Union announced acceptance of the proposal .  Mayor Collins noted the revised contract would 
come before the governing body at the next City Council meeting.    
 
  There bein g no fur ther business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:13 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
   
       Submitted by, 
        
        
        
       Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk  
 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  Wednesday, August 21, 2024  
  
 
 