MEETING: City Council | DATE: 2024-08-26 | CLIP_ID: 973 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 973

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 26, 2024  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich (via Zoom), Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk.  The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr White and Dr. Rinne, item # 17(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 12, 2024.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Special Meeting of the Governing Body on August 12, 2024.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located west of Converse Avenue and north of Dell Range Boulevard.  Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural for land annexed to the City  
of Cheyenne located west of Converse Avenue and north of Dell Range Boulevard.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AG Agricultural to NR -3 Neighborhood 
Residential - High Density for land located west of Converse Avenue and north of Dell Range  
Boulevard.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body. Public c omment was made by:  
Bracken Atkinson, Wasatch Development Group.  Comment was made by the following member 
of the governing body: Mr. Cook. 
 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of US-30 and north of and adjacent to East Pershing Boulevard.  Mr. Roybal moved 
to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. 
 
            ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of MUR Mixed-Use Residential for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located east of US -30 and north of and adjacent to East Pershing 
Boulevard. Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to CB Community Business 
for land located northeast of the intersection of Hutchins Drive and Industry Drive .  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LR Low-Density Residential to CB Community 
Business for land located at 3501 Forest Drive (located southeast of the intersection of Pershing 
Boulevard and Forest Drive).  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave. Mr. Roybal moved to postpone to September 9, 2024, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion 
to postpone failed  due to a tie vote .  Voting “yes” – Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Roybal, Mr. 
Segrave and Mr. White.  Voting “no” – Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn 
and Dr. Rinne. Main m otion failed.  Voting “ no” – all members of the governing body. Public 
comment was made by: Nancy L oomis, David Evans and Victoria Pike.  Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal 
and Mr. Segrave.  
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 2.76.040, Designation of Downtown 
Development District, of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, 
Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
expand the Downtown Development District .  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, 
seconded by Mr . Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body 
with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no” . Comments were made by the following members 
of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Cook and Mr. Laybourn. 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2024 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16- 4-112 & 16- 4-113 – referred to Finance Committee. 
(Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Approving sanitary sewer service, by Outside User Agreement, for Oh 
Hail No LLC, for land located south of Robert Avenue and west of South Greeley Highway – 
referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Lotus Engineering & 
Sustainability, LLC, for the Comprehensive Climate Action Plan (CCAP) Preparation for 
Cheyenne, Wyoming (EPA Climate Pollution Reduction Grant (CPRG)) .  Reporting for Finance 
Committee, Mr. White moved to approve in an amount not to exceed $299,985.00, seconded by 
Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn. 
(#8036)  
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and the Laramie 
County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for case management services and 
substance abuse prevention and evaluation (Revenue to the City) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $176,252.00). (#8037) 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the US Endowment for Forestry and 
Communities for a National Forests Grant for protecting source water and reducing wildfire risk 
for rural communities  (US Endowment for Forestry and Communities Grant) .  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $250,000.00). (#8038) 
 
[CA] Grant Agreement between the City of Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization 
(MPO) and the US Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration to develop a 
Comprehensive Safety Action Plan (Federal Highway Administration SS4A Grant and 2021 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) .  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to 
exceed $250,000.00). (#8039) 
  
 2023-2025 Collective Labor Agreement re-negotiation between the City of Cheyenne and 
Cheyenne Firefighters, Local Union No. 279, International Association of Firefighters.  Mr. White 
advised the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the August 19, 2024 Finance 
Committee meeting, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code have been met. Mr. White moved 
to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#8040)  
 
[CA] Contract between the City of Cheyenne Police Department and Tyler Technologies for 
maintenance and support services of the Police Department’s records management software 
(General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] License Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the United States of America 
Western Area Power Administration (WAPA) for the construction of the Terry Ranch Road-
Cheyenne 230-kV and the Owl Creek -Cheyenne 115kV transmission lines  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres Associates for 
the 19th Street Drainage and Intersection Improvements Project (2019 -2022 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and The Design Studio, 
Inc. (TDSi), for the restoration and remodel of the Cheyenne Pumphouse (General Fund Reserves) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
[CA] Drainage Easement Agreement granted by Kenrich, LLC to the City of Cheyenne to ensure 
maintenance of a storm water conveyance system along the Christensen Road corridor  (2017 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Interagency Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the State of Wyoming, 
Department of State Parks and Cultural Resources, to outline projects, responsibilities, and special 
provisions at the High Plains Research Station and Arboretum  (Revenue to City)  – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7975 between the City of Cheyenne and TPT Trails 
for additional design-build services and trail maintenance for the Belvoir Ranch, Phase 2 Design-
Build Trail Project (Belvoir Recreation Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $216,000.00). (#7975) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-2-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp. for the Depot Renovation Project  (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund)  – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
Transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office 
for 307 Racing Management, Inc. d/b/a 307 Racing, 3310 Ridge Road, Cheyenne, WY (license 
currently held by Keg, Inc d/b/a D.T.’s Liquor Mart & Tusker Bar).  Mr. White moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Cook. Public comment was made by: Kyle Ridgeway.  Comments were made by 
the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Dr. Rinne 
and Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the 
exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Dr. Rinne voting “no”. 
 
 Appointments of Alane West and Brandon Gilchrist to the Housing and Community 
Development Advisory Council.  Mr. Segrave moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel . 
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. 
Johnson voting “no” and Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments). 
 
 Reappointment of Rita Meyer to the Revolving Loan Fund Committee; and Joseph 
Bainbridge and Justin Huntley to the Housing and Community Development Advisory Council.   
Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral 
appointments). 
  
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 9, 2024 at 6:00 p.m. in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, for a 
transfer of ownership of retail liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for 1734 Partners, 
LLC d/b/a 1734 Partners, 1734 Meadowland Dr., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by Old Chicago 
Taproom II, LLC d/b/a/ Old Chicago #74). 
 
Announcement was made that due to City offices being closed for the Labor Day holiday on 
Monday, September 2, 2024, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held in 
the Municipal Building, Room 104, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic 
conference meetings as follows:  Finance Committee will meet Tuesday, September 3, 2024 at Noon and 
Public Services Committee will meet Wednesday, September 4, 2024 at Noon.  
 
Public comment was made by the following under Other Business: Seth Lloyd and Johnny 
Campbell.   
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Johnson and Mr. White.  
  
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:18 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 4, 2024 
   