MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2024-09-09 | CLIP_ID: 975 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 975

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
September 9, 2024  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: COUNCIL 
MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich (via Zoom), Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel , Richard Johnson, 
Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White. Absent: Patrick 
Collins, Mayor. Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda.  (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Cook and Mr. Roybal, item #20 (c) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve remaining items, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 26, 2024.  Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
President Esquibel opened a Public Hearing for a transfer of ownership of retail liquor license 
application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for 1734 Partners, LLC d/b/a 1734 Partners, 1734 
Meadowland Dr., Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by Old Chicago Taproom II, LLC d/b/a/ 
Old Chicago #74).  Public comment was made by: John Johnson, principle 1734 partner . 
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson 
and Dr. Rinne. There being no further comment or input and the purpose of the hearing having 
been met, President Esquibel closed the hearing and referred the application to Finance Committee. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located west of Converse Avenue and north of Dell Range Boulevard. Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr . 
Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4583) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural for land annexed to the City  
of Cheyenne located west of Converse Avenue and north of Dell Range Boulevard.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4584) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AG Agricultural to NR -3 Neighborhood 
Residential - High Density for land located west of Converse Avenue and north of Dell Range  
Boulevard.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4585) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located east of US-30 and north of and adjacent to East Pershing Boulevard. Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#4586) 
 
            ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of MUR Mixed-Use Residential for land annexed 
to the City of Cheyenne located east of US -30 and north of and adjacent to East Pershing 
Boulevard. Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4587) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of  
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from LI Light Industrial to CB Community Business 
for land located northeast of the intersection of Hutchins Drive and Industry Drive . Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body present. (#4588) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 2.76.040, Designation of Downtown 
Development District, of Chapter 2.76, Downtown Development Authority, of Title 2, 
Administration and Personnel, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
expand the Downtown Development District. Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final  
reading, seconded by Mr . Segrave. Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute maps provided in 
staff memo dated August 27, 2024, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend by substitute maps 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present  with the exception of Dr. 
Aldrich voting “no”. Main motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body  
present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no” . Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn. (#4589) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) of the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to create BP Business Park Zone District and making conforming 
amendments to locations throughout the UDC referencing zone districts; and amending the UDC 
to correct references associated with the SS Support Services District – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2024 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16- 4-112 & 16- 4-113. Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6423) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Approving sanitary sewer service, by Outside User Agreement, for Oh 
Hail No LLC, for land located south of Robert Avenue and west of South Greeley Highway. Mr. 
Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Mr. Roybal moved to amend by substitute dated 
August 30, 2024, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body present. Main motion as amended by substitute carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mr. Laybourn 
voting “no”. Public comment was made by:  Brad Emmons, AVI, agent for applicant. Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. 
Rinne, Mr. Segrave, and Mr. White. (#6424) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Scenic 
Development, 5th Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located west of Converse 
Avenue and north of Dell Range Boulevard) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Andiamo Subdivision Second Filing, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located 
southeast of the intersection of West 19th Street and O’Neil Avenue) – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Granting an exception to the ‘201 Agreement’ for the owner of the 
property located at 4614 East Pershing Boulevard to allow installation of a small wastewater 
system (septic system) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)  
 
 Contract between the City of Cheyenne Police Department and Tyler Technologies for 
maintenance and support services of the Police Department’s records management software 
(General Fund). Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave. Motion carried in an amount not to exceed $735,215.00. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body present. Comments were made by the following member of the governing 
body: Mr. Johnson. (#8044) 
 
[CA] License Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the United States of America 
Western Area Power Administration (WAPA) for the construction of the Terry Ranch Road-
Cheyenne 230-kV and the Owl Creek -Cheyenne 115kV transmission lines . Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#8045) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Ayres Associates for 
the 19th Street Drainage and Intersection Improvements Project (2019 -2022 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund). Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried in an amount 
not to exceed $712,446.00. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Comments 
were made by the following member of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn. (#8046) 
 
 Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and The Design Studio, 
Inc. (TDSi), for the restoration and remodel of the Cheyenne Pumphouse (General Fund Reserves). 
Mr. White moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried in an amount not to exceed 
$424,200.00. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body: Mr. Johnson and Mr. Laybourn. (#8047) 
 
[CA] Drainage Easement Agreement granted by Kenrich, LLC to the City of Cheyenne to ensure 
maintenance of a storm water conveyance system along the Christensen Road corridor  (2017 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried in an amount not to 
exceed $424.00. 
 
[CA] Interagency Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the State of Wyoming, 
Department of State Parks and Cultural Resources, to outline projects, responsibilities, and special 
provisions at the High Plains Research Station and Arboretum  (Revenue to City) . Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried.  
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7960 between the City of Cheyenne and Asphalt 
Preservation LLC, for additional materials required to complete the 2024 Surface Seal #1 Project. 
(2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 [CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7968 between the City of Cheyenne and Asphalt 
Preservation LLC, for additional materials required to complete the 2024 Surface Seal #2 Project. 
(2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
 Consideration of Bid #S-2-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Reiman 
Corp. for the Depot Renovation Project  (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) . Mr. White 
declared a conflict of interest and vacated council chambers.  Mr. Johnson moved to approve, 
seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion carried in an amount not to exceed $1,426,265.00. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body present in council chambers . Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Segrave. (#8028) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -4-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and S&S 
Builders LLC, for the Dutcher Athletic Complex Restroom and Concession Building Project. 
(2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund, Lottery Proceeds and Recreation Mill Grant) – referred 
to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-24-24 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Traffic 
Safety Services, Inc., for the 2024 Thermoplastic Markings #1 Project . (2019-2022 Optional 1% 
Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -1-25 for 2 greens mowers and 3 tee box mowers for the Golf 
Division. (Golf Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S-1-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Orion 
Environmental Inc., for the Cheyenne Railcar Project, Bid Package No. 1, Asbestos and Lead Paint 
Abatement Project. (General Fund Reserves and Economic Development Administration Grant) – 
referred to Finance Committee. 
  
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting the Wyoming Breast Cancer Initiative, 
will be held October 4 – October 6, 2024 at Peppermill Bar, 1618 Stillwater Ave., Cheyenne, WY 
(10% of proceeds go to the charity). 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Dr. 
Aldrich, Mr. Johnson and Mr. White. 
  
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:42 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 13, 2024 
   