MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2024-10-14 | CLIP_ID: 979 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 979

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
October 14, 2024  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel , 
Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White . 
Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.  Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Johnson and Mr. Cook, item #18(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda.  Upon request 
by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Cook, item #19(b) was 
removed from the Consent Agenda .  Mr. Esquibel moved to approve remaining items, seconded 
by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on September 23, 2024. Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, to create BP Business Park Zone District and making conforming 
amendments to locations throughout the UDC referencing zone districts; and amending the UDC 
to correct references associated with the SS Support Services District . Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by D r. 
Rinne. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4590) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne adding the Urban Use Overlay District to land located north of East 21st Street and east 
of and adjacent to Warren Avenue  – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 1st READING – Authorizing the Contractor Licensing Board to license 
and otherwise regulate portable fire extinguisher, hose station equipment and hood system cleaning 
and maintenance professionals, making conforming amendments, and repealing obsolete 
provisions of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance  
Committee. (Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich) 
 
 
 
 
 RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2024 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S §§ 16- 4-112 & 16-4-113. Mr. Johnson declared a conflict of 
interest and vacated council chambers.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Dr. Aldrich moved to 
adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present in council chambers. (#6428) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Re-appropriating the Fiscal Year 2025 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S §§ 16- 4-112 & 16- 4-113.  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6429) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for the City Engineer to 
execute certain temporary construction easements on behalf of the City of Cheyenne associated 
with the Storey Boulevard and Summit Drive Extension Project and the East Dell Range 
Construction Project. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6430) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
VOANR Cheyenne East, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located between 
Maxwell Avenue, Seymour Avenue, East 26th Street and East 25th Street)  – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate 
in northeast Cheyenne generally located north of Bevans Street, west of College Drive, and south 
of Dell Range Boulevard – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Certifying compliance with Wyoming Statute § 15 -1-402 for the City-
initiated annexation of various tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate 
in northeast Cheyenne generally located east of Ridge Road, west of Whitney Road and along Dell 
Range Boulevard – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Expressing the support of the Governing Body for acceptance of real 
property from Stephanie White – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Expressing the determination by the Governing Body of the City of 
Cheyenne for the repeal of enacting Resolutions and dissolution of specific City Committees, 
Commissions and Councils due to inactivity – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – 
Mr. Johnson) 
 
 An appeal of the Planning Commission denial of the Preliminary Plat for Edgar 
Subdivision, a replat of a portion of Lot 9, Block 4, View Point North, 2nd Filing, City of Cheyenne, 
Laramie County, Wyoming (located at 5192 Panorama Drive)  (Appeal by applicant pursuant to 
UDC 2.1.2.c.6.b).  Mr. Roybal moved to overturn the Planning Commission’s decision to deny the 
preliminary plat and to include the exception to block size, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Downtown 
Development Authority to coordinate repair of sidewalks identified as trip hazards (2021 Specific 
Purpose Option Tax Fund) .  Dr. Aldrich moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$100,000.00, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried.   Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Mr. 
Laybourn. (#8065) 
 
 Development Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, South Cheyenne Water and Sewer 
District, Cheyenne Fox Farm Village LLC and Cheyenne Fox Farm LLC, for sanitary sewer 
services.  Mr. Roybal advised the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at the 
October 8, 2024 Public Services Committee, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been 
met. Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. Public comment was made by: Jason Stephen, Gateway 
Construction.  Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. Rinne. 
(#8066) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Habitat for Humanity 
of Laramie County, Inc. for management of grant funds for the Pronghorn Crossing affordable 
housing project.  Mr. Roybal advised the item was reviewed under other items for the agenda at 
the October 8, 2024 Public Services Committee, therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code had 
been met. Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body.  Public comment  was made by: Dan Dorsch, Executive 
Director, Habitat for Humanity of Laramie County. (#8067) 
 
[CA] Agreement between the City of Cheyenne, Transit Division, and the Wyoming Department 
of Health, Aging Division to provide transportation support services to persons 60 years or older 
under the Title III-B Program Grant for FY 2025 (Title III-B Division of Aging Grant) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Urban Renewal Development Agreement to award Tax Increment Financing (TIF) for a 
development in the West Downtown Plan and Project urban renewal area  – referred to Public 
Services Committee. 
 
[CA] Urban Renewal Development Agreement to award Tax Increment Financing (TIF) for a 
development in the Jolly Rogers Plan and Project urban renewal area – referred to Public Services 
Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7829 between the City of Cheyenne and GBP, LLC 
to extend the lease agreement for up to an additional 12 months for the property located at 6725 
Faith Drive. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $16,100.00 per 
month). (#7829) 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7989 between the City of Cheyenne  and William 
H. Smith and Associates for design services addressing one additional alleyway for the Cheyenne 
Three Alleyway Project (2021 Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund). Dr. Aldrich moved to approve 
in an amount not to exceed $39,639.67, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body with exception of Mr. Cook voting “no”.  Comment was made 
by the following member of the governing body: Mr. Laybourn. (#7989) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-11-24 for two (2) trucks for the City of Cheyenne, Weed & Pest 
Division (Weed & Pest Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$86,514.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-3-25 for four (4) trucks (mid- size, regular cab, crew cab) for the 
City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department (2019-2022 & 2023-2026 Optional 1% Sales 
Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed $324,622.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-2-25 for ten (10) new four-door 2024/2025 Model Utility Police 
Interceptors for the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department  (2019-2022 & 2023- 2026 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$703,288.39). 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S-5-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and S & S 
Builders, LLC for the Pronghorn Crossing Site Infrastructure Project  (American Rescue Plan 
Federal Recovery Funds & other funding to be determined) . Dr. Aldrich moved to accept the bid 
in an amount not to exceed $2,039,808.00, with the funding not covered by ARPA funds coming 
from the 2021 6th Penny Large Project Land Fund, seconded by Mr. White.  Dr. Aldrich moved to 
amend funding not covered by ARPA funds be funded by Habitat for Humanity of Laramie 
County, Inc., seconded by Mr. Roybal.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body. Main motion  as amended  carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body.  Public comment was made by: Dan Dorsch, Executive Director, Habitat for 
Humanity of Laramie County.  Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Johnson. (#8068) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -6-25 for an Agreement the City of Cheyenne and Pine Bluffs 
Gravel & Excavating, Inc. for the Childs Draw South Tributary Drainage Enchantments 
Project (General Fund, General Fund Reserves) – referred to Finance Committee. 
  
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
  
 An announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting Make -A-Wish Wyoming will be 
held on November 8 – November 9, 2024 at Red Lion, 204 W. Fox Farm Rd., Cheyenne, WY. 
(10% of proceeds go to charity) 
 
 Public comment was made by the following under Other Business:  Else Arntzen, owner, 
Outcast Vintage. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business: Mr. 
Cook, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Johnson.  
 
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:34 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kristina F. Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  October 23, 2024 
   