MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2024-12-09 | CLIP_ID: 987 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 987

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 9, 2024  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook (arrived at 6:08 
p.m.), Ken Esquibel , Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom 
Segrave and Jeff White. Also present: Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance 
was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.  Mr. Esquibel moved to approve, seconded by Mr. White. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on November 25, 2024. Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a bar & grill liquor license application filed with 
the City Clerk’s Office for Rock Ranch LLC d/b/a Nellie’s, 4020 Airport Parkway, Cheyenne, 
WY.  Public comment was made by: Kathy Brent. Comment was made by the following member 
of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich.  There being no further comments or input and purpose of the 
hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referr ed the application to 
Finance Committee. 
 
 Mayor Collins opened a public hearing to determine whether compliance of annexation 
conditions required by Wyoming Statute § 15-1-402 exist for about 0.13 acres of land located north 
of Cheyenne Street and west of and adjacent to Ridge Road.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn.  There being no further 
comments or input and purpose of the hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public 
hearing. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, tracts of 
land situate in portions of Sections 4 and 5, T13N, R67W, 6th P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming 
(also known as ‘North Range Business Park’, located northwest of the I -80 and Roundtop Road 
interchange).  Reporting for Public Services Committee , Mr. Roybal moved to approve on thir d 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. (#4593) 
 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of LI Light Industrial and BP Business Park for 
tracts of land being annexed to the City situate in portions of Sections 4 and 5, T13N, R67W, 6th 
P.M., Laramie County, Wyoming (also known as ‘North Range Business Park’, located northwest 
of the I -80 and Roundtop Road interchange) .  M r. Roybal moved to approve on thir d and final 
reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body. Public comment was made by: Daunte Rushton, Cheyenne LEADS (#4594) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from AG Agricultural and HI Heavy Industrial to AG 
Agricultural for land located south of Campstool Rd and north of Interstate 80.  Mr. Roybal moved 
to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. (#4595)  
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in northeast Cheyenne generally 
located north of Bevans Street, west of College Drive and south of Dell Range Boulevard.  M r. 
Roybal moved to approve on thir d and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  (#4596) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of MR - Medium-Density Residential, HR - High 
Density Residential, and CB -  Community Business for land annexed to the City of Cheyenne 
generally located north of Bevans Street, west of College Drive, and south of Dell Range 
Boulevard.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on thir d and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  
Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4597)   
  
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, various 
tracts of land completely surrounded by current City limits situate in northeast Cheyenne generally 
located east of Ridge Road, west of Whitney Road and along Dell Range Boulevard.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4598)  
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AR - Agricultural Residential, LR Low-Density 
Residential, MR -  Medium-Density Residential, and MUR Mixed- Use Residential for land 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne generally located east of Ridge Road, west of Whitney Road and 
along Dell Range Boulevard.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4599) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from P Public and MUR Mixed- Use Residential to 
MUB Mixed-Use Business for land located northeast of the intersection of Morrie Avenue and 
East Lincolnway.  M r. R oybal moved to approve on thir d and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Public comment 
was made by: Brandon Swain and Dan Dorsch, Executive Director, Habitat for Humanity of 
Laramie County. (#4600) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Amending Section 8.60.080, Non- Compliant Vehicles 
as a Nuisance, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, declaring oversized 
vehicles as a nuisance, providing for their regulation, clarifying provisions and making conforming 
amendments.  Reporting for Committee  of the Whole , Mr. Esquibel moved to approve on thir d 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson. Mr. Esquibel moved to approve by substitute dated 
December 4, 2024, seconded by M r. Johnson.  Motion to amend by substitute carri ed.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and 
Mr. Segrave v oting “no”. Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by substitute dated December 5, 2024, 
seconded by Mr. Johnson. Motion to amend by substitute failed due to a tie vote.  Voting “yes” – 
Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Segrave. Voting “no” – Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Cook, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Roybal and Mr. White. Mr. White moved to amend page 4, item 
#8 by changing the width requirement from 7 ft. to 8.5 ft., seconded by Dr. Rinne. Motion to amend 
carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook voting 
“no”. Dr. Rinne moved to amend page 8, Section 10.52.020(B) by adding the restriction that no 
person shall park where any part of the vehicle extends onto or over any sidewalk or extends onto 
or over the travel lane of a street, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting 
“yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Johnson and Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  Dr. Rinne moved to amend Section 10.52.020(B) by 
including to the prior amendment – “for a period of not more than 8 hours and only during daylight 
hours”, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion to amend carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”. Main motion as  
amended by substitute, as amended (3 amendments) carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Mr. Cook and Mr. Laybourn voting “no”.  Public comment 
was made by the following:  Donald Jones, Lee Filer,  Gary Everett, Joseph McCord, Katelyn 
Wilson, Steve Manning, Ed Melko, Alisa Krishtal, Tom Fuller, Daryl Frank, Gregory Barrow, 
James Wenzinger, Terese Johnston, Alan Sheldon, Wayne Gizinski , Georgia Broyles, John Puls, 
Cathy Deister, David Cook, Vicki Nemecek, Nathan Stoner and Jeff Kling.  Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White. (#4601) 
  
 Mayor Collins reconvened the meeting at 8:23 p.m. after a brief recess. 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Creating Chapter 13.32, Stormwater Runoff 
Management System, of Title 13, Public Services, of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, establishing the Stormwater Runoff Management System, imposing a user fee for 
necessary funding and repealing obsolete provisions.  Mr. Esquibel moved to approve on third and 
final reading, seconded by Mr . Laybourn. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”.  Public comment was made by Tim 
Bradshaw, Director of Aviation, Cheyenne  Regional Airport, Kevin Paintner, Cheyenne Airport 
Board, Seth Lloyd, Ken Richardson, Cathy Deister, Jon Puls and Alan Sheldon. Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and 
Mr. Segrave. (#4602) 
 
 ORDINANCE – 3rd READING – Specifying the monthly Stormwater Runoff Management 
System User Fee in accordance with Section 13.32.050 of the Municipal Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming.  Mr. Esquibel moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. 
Laybourn.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception 
of Dr. Aldrich voting “no”.  Public comment was made by: Cathy Deister. Comments were made 
by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Johnson and Mr. 
Segrave. (#4603) 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending subsections 6.6.3.b.3, 6.7.5.c, and 6.9.4.e of 
the Unified Development Code (UDC), changing building façade design requirements for 
multifamily residential development.  Mr. Roybal advised there was no recommendation from 
Public Services Committee. Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr . 
Johnson.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing body. Public comment 
was made by: Dan Dorsch, Executive Director, Habitat for Humanity of Laramie County.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor 
Collins, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” 
– all members of the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. 
Segrave voting “no”. 
  
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Chapter 2.16.010 of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, requiring the City Treasurer to annually evaluate and report to 
the Governing Body any outstanding debt owed the City by any City Board, Council or 
Commission Membe r.  Reporting for Finance Committee , Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on 
second reading, seconded by Mr . White.  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body. Public comment was made by: Alan Sheldon.  Comment was made by t he 
following member of the governing body: Mr. Johnson. 
 
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Chapter 8.68, Camping on Public Property, 
of the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, expanding the general prohibition on 
camping to all public property of the City, creating a permitting process, making conforming 
amendments and repealing obsolete provisions.  Mr. Roybal advised there was no recommendation 
from Public Services Committee. Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by 
Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body.  Public comment 
was made by: Cathy Deister and Mark Moody.  Comments were made by the following members 
of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn and Dr. Rinne. 
  
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Cheyenne Street and west of and adjacent to Ridge Road – referred to Public 
Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)    
  
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of MR Medium -Density Residential for land 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne located north of Cheyenne Street and west of and adjacent to 
Ridge Road – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)    
  
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural for land being annexed to the 
City at Lot 1, Block 1, North Range Substation, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of 
Happy Jack Road, west of Bruns Way) – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal)    
  
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural for land located northeast of 
the intersection of West Allison Road and Walterscheid Boulevard – referred to Public Services 
Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)    
  
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from Planned Unit Development (PUD) (Ordinance 
#4274) to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density for land located north of West College 
Drive, south of West Allison Road, and west of Walterscheid Boulevard – referred to Public 
Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)    
  
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending Section 10.12.020 of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, clarifying that failure to maintain liability coverage is a jailable 
offense – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)    
  
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing a one-time payment from Fiscal Year 2024 budget savings 
given to full-time and permanent part-time employees of the City of Cheyenne (excluding elected 
officials and employees of the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities) .  Dr. Aldrich moved to adopt, 
seconded by Mr.  White.  Dr. Aldrich moved to amend by substitute dated November 21, 2024, 
seconded by Mr. White. Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” –  all members of 
the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body. Comment was made by the following member of the governing body: Dr. 
Aldrich. (#6442) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Encouraging City staff to solicit public comment on changes to the 
administration of sanitation pickup locations and further directing City staff to coordinate with 
Univerus, Inc. to schedule a meeting before the Governing Body regarding the Sanitation 
Rerouting and Optimization Project .  Mr. Roybal advised there was no recommendation from 
Public Services Committee. Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr . Laybourn. Motion 
failed.  Voting “no” – all members of the governing body with the exc eption of Mr. Laybourn 
voting “yes”.  Public comment was made by: Mark Moody and Carey Anson.  Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Esquibel, 
Mr. Johnson, Mr. Laybourn, Dr. Rinne, Mr. Segrave and Mr. White.  
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending the City of Cheyenne 2024 Program Year Annual Action 
Plan, prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Division – referred to 
Finance Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Esquibel) 
 
 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 5th 
Street Towns, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southeast of the intersection 
of West 5th Street and Snyder Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee.  (Sponsor – Mr. 
Roybal) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Edgar 
Subdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Sullivan St and 
adjacent to Panorama Drive) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal)    
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds  – referred 
to Finance Committee.  (Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – To effectuate appropriate property record corrections, authorizing the 
Mayor to execute all necessary documents related to amending and extinguishing certain easement 
agreements affecting a portion of the Belvoir Ranch and the properties directly north and south of 
that portion of the Belvoir Ranch – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Roybal) 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and the Laramie County 
Board of Commissioners to allow the County to continue to review and inspect active development 
applications and permits in areas annexed by the City.  Mr. Roybal advised the item was heard 
under other items for the agenda at the December 3, 2024 Public Services Committee meeting, 
therefore, provisions of Title 2 of City Code had been met.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Mr. Roybal moved to amend by subs titute dated December 4, 2024, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body.  Main motion as amended by substitute carried.  Voting “yes” - all members 
of the governing body. Public comment was made by: Lee Filer.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins and Mr. Segrave. (#8097) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
Wyoming to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College and 
for an area of Laramie County immediately adjacent to the City  (Revenue to the City) – referred 
to Finance Committee.       
   
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, Memorial Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional Medical Center, 
Volunteers of America, Healthworks, Community Action of Laramie County, Wyoming 
Department of Corrections, Laramie County Sheriff’s Office, District Attorney, Drug Court and 
Treatment Court Programs, Laramie County and the Office of the State Public Defender for the 
Laramie County Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) Program Policy Coordi nating 
Group – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #4 to Contract #7437 between the City of Cheyenne and Brandon 
Swain for a Purchase and Sale Agreement for the sale of surplus land located northeast of the 
intersection of Morrie Avenue and Lincolnway, to add a requirement that the buyer of the land 
provide required parking for development, regardless of zone or overlay.  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried. (#7437) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -7-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Fencetrak Inc. d/b/a Full Tilt Services for the Belvoir Ranch Trailhead and Access Roads Project  
(Belvoir Ranch Recreation Fund and Wyoming Outdoor Recreation Grant).  Motion (per Consent 
Agenda) carried (in an amount of $672,507.50). (#8098) 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Spieth Gymnastics, for the 
purchase of gymnastics equipment for the new Cheyenne Gymnastics Facility (Recreation Fund 
& Lotto Proceeds) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Public comment was made by the following under Other Business: Jason Sanchez.  
 
 Comments were made by the following members of the governing body under other 
business: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Johnson. 
 
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 10:13 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        Deputy City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  December 18, 2024 
   