MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2024-12-23 | CLIP_ID: 989 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 989

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
December 23, 2024  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting.  Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins, COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken Esquibel , 
Richard Johnson, Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White. Absent: Pete 
Laybourn. Also present: Kris Jones, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor 
Collins who declared a conflict due to a business affiliation on agenda item #18.   
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 9, 2024. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending subsections 6.6.3.b.3, 6.7.5.c, and 6.9.4.e of 
the Unified Development Code (UDC), changing building façade design requirements for 
multifamily residential development. Reporting for Public Services Committee, Mr. Roybal 
advised there was no recommendation from Public Services Committee. Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present with the exception of  Mr. Segrave voting “no”.  Public 
comment was made by: Jason Stephen, Gateway Construction, Brandon Swain, and Dan Dorsch, 
Executive Director, Habitat for Humanity  of Laramie County.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Dr. Rinne and Mr. Segrave.  
(#4604) 
  
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Chapter 2.16.010 of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, requiring the City Treasurer to annually evaluate and report to 
the Governing Body any outstanding debt owed the City by any City Board, Council or 
Commission Member.  Reporting for Finance Committee, Dr. Aldrich moved to approve on third 
and final reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the 
governing body present. (#4605) 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Chapter 8.68, Camping on Public Property, of 
the Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, expanding the general prohibition on 
camping to all public property of the City, creating a permitting process, making conforming 
amendments and repealing obsolete provisions.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on third and final  
2 
 
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. (#4606) 
  
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Cheyenne Street and west of and adjacent to Ridge Road. Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body present.  
  
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of MR Medium -Density Residential for land 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne located north of Cheyenne Street and west of and adjacent to 
Ridge Road. Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
  
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural for land being annexed to the 
City at Lot 1, Block 1, North Range Substation, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of 
Happy Jack Road, west of Bruns Way). Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded 
by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present. 
  
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural for land located northeast of 
the intersection of West Allison Road and Walterscheid Boulevard. Mr. Roybal advised there was 
no recommendation from Public Services Committee.  Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second 
reading, seconded by Mr. Johnson. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White voting “no”.  Public comment was 
made by John Sayers, Agent for Tru Grit and Lee filer.  Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body:  Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Johnson and Dr. Rinne.    
  
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from Planned Unit Development (PUD) (Ordinance 
#4274) to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density for land located north of West College 
Drive, south of West Allison Road, and west of Walterscheid Boulevard. Mr. Roybal moved to 
approve on second reading, seconded by Dr. Rinne.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members 
of the governing body  present.  Public comment was made by John Saye rs, Agent for Tru Grit.  
Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  Dr. Rinne and Mr. 
Segrave.     
  
 ORDINANCE –2nd READING – Amending Section 10.12.020 of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, clarifying that failure to maintain liability coverage is a jailable 
offense. Mr. Roybal moved to approve on second reading, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Mr. Johnson and Mr. Segrave.    
 
3 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Amending the City of Cheyenne 2024 Program Year Annual Action 
Plan, prepared by the Cheyenne Housing and Community Development Division. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6443) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for the 5th 
Street Towns, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located southeast of the intersection 
of West 5th Street and Snyder Avenue) . Mr. Roybal moved to adopt  with acknowledgement of 
relief in a) reducing the number of parking spaces per unit from 2 to 1 and b) reducing the rear 
setback, seconded by Mr. Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body present. Public comment was made by : Brandon Swain.  Comments were made by the 
following member of the governing body, Mr. Segrave. (#6444) 
 
 RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for Edgar 
Subdivision, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located north of Sullivan St and 
adjacent to Panorama Drive) . Mr. Roybal moved to adopt, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present.  Comments were made by the 
following member of the governing body: Mr. Johnson.  (#6445) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Designating local banks as depositories for municipal funds. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. (#6446) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – To effectuate appropriate property record corrections, authorizing the 
Mayor to execute all necessary documents related to amending and extinguishing certain easement 
agreements affecting a portion of the Belvoir Ranch and the properties directly north and south of 
that portion of the Belvoir Ranch. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6447) 
 
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County 
Wyoming to provide public transportation services to Laramie County Community College and 
for an area of Laramie County immediately adjacent to the City (Revenue to the City). Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried, in an amount not to exceed $93,000.00. (#8109) 
   
[CA] Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police 
Department, Memorial Hospital of Laramie County d/b/a Cheyenne Regional Medical Center, 
Volunteers of America, Healthworks, Community Action of Laramie County, Wyoming 
Department of Corrections, Laramie County Sheriff’s Office, District Attorney, Drug Court and 
Treatment Court Programs, Laramie County and the Office of the State Public Defender for the 
Laramie County Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) Program Policy Coordinating 
Group. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#8110) 
 
 Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives, and the Laramie 
County Community Juvenile Services Joint Powers Board for a Juvenile Diversion Coordinator to 
provide diversion related services. (Revenue to the City) . Dr. Aldrich moved to approve in an 
amount not to exceed $156,251.30, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body present. (#8111) 
 
4 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WYDOT for a Wyoming Rural Public 
Transportation grant to assist in providing local match for operating funds for the Transit Program 
or Fiscal Year 2025. (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Cattle Company for the Belvoir 
Ranch Grazing Lease. (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Contract Modification #1 to Contract #7772 between the City of Cheyenne and State of 
Wyoming, Office of State Lands & Investments to increase the grant award from $1,000,000.00 
to $1,421,212.00 for the Van Buren Avenue Storm Sewer Interceptor Project. (Wyoming State and 
Local Fiscal Recovery Funds (ARPA)). Dr. Aldrich moved to approve in an amount not to exceed 
$421,212.00, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the 
governing body present. (#7772) 
 
[CA] Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Spieth Gymnastics, for the 
purchase of gymnastics equipment for the new Cheyenne Gymnastics Facility (Recreation Fund 
& Lotto Proceeds). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried, in an amount not to exceed $200,518.00. 
 
[CA]  Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Zivaro for Quest Netvault 
Software for the City of Cheyenne IT Department. (General Fund) – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-7-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Alco 
Fence Co. Inc. for the Happy Jack Landfill Litter Fence Maintenance and Repair Services Project. 
(Solid Waste Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Bar & grill liquor license application filed with the City Clerk’s Office for Rock Ranch 
LLC d/b/a Nellie’s, 4020 Airport Parkway, Cheyenne, WY. Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA]  Request to extend the time period in which Scooters Scoreboard, LLC d/b/a Scooters 
Scoreboard Bar has to become operational for an additional year for their retail liquor license, 
located at 619 East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 Re-appointments of Kevin Paintner to the Cheyenne Airport Board; Scott Homar to the 
Fire Civil Service Commission; Don Herrold, Milward Simpson, Josh Chrysler and Gary Sims to 
the Historic Preservation Board; Boyd Wiggam and Meghan Connor to the Planning Commission; 
Erin LeBlanc and Linda Burt to the Board of Adjustment; Jason Powell, Jason Stephen and Paul 
Pomeroy to the Contractor Licensing Board; and Randy Byers and Josh Morris to the Building 
Code Board of Appeals. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion carried. 
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor Collins 
who did not vote (mayoral appointment). 
 
 Appointments of Tom Roberts to the Police Civil Service Commission; Daniel Meyer to 
the Building Code Board of Appeals, Brian Fenimore to the Contractor Licensing Board; and 
Rebecca Millett, Tom Gallagher, Gregory Smith and Daisha Hunter to the Mayor’s Council for 
People with Disabilities.  Dr. Aldrich moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Esquibel.  Motion 
5 
 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body present with the exception of Mayor 
Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointment). 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 Revenue Report.  Comment way made by the following member of the governing body:  
Mr. Johnson.   
 
 An announcement was made that the Sine Die and First Regular Meetings of the Governing 
Body will be held Monday, January 6, 2025, beginning at 10:00 a.m. in Council Chambers, 2101 
O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming and via electronic conference meeting. 
 
 An announcement was made that for calendar year 2025, starting Monday, January 6, 2025, 
the Public Services Committee will meet on the first and third Mondays of the month at 12:00 p.m. 
(Noon) and the Finance Committee will meet on the first and third Tuesdays of the month at 12:00 
p.m. (Noon) in Room 104 of the Municipal Building at 2101 O’Neil Avenue. 
 
 An announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting Make -A-Wish Wyoming will be 
held on January 31-February 1, 2025 at Red Lion, 204 W. Fox Farm Rd, Cheyenne, WY. (10% of 
proceeds go to the charity) 
  
 Comments were made by the following members of the governing body under other 
business:  Mayor Collins, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, and Dr. Rinne.   
 
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 7:07 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kris Jones, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 1, 2025  
   