MEETING: First Regular Meeting | DATE: 2025-01-06 | CLIP_ID: 991 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 991

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
            
January 6, 2025 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne assembled for its First Regular Meeting for 
2025 on this date in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Prior to the meeting 
being officially convened The Honorable Justice Kate Fox, Wyoming Supreme Court, 
administered the oath of office to Mayor Patrick Collins and to the following newly elected and 
re-elected members of City Council: Pete Laybourn and Jeff White, Ward I; Dr. Kathy Emmons  
and Tom Segrave, Ward II, and Dr. Michelle Aldrich and Mark Moody, Ward III. Welcoming 
comments were made by Mayor Collins. 
 
 Mayor Collins officially called the First Regular Meeting of the governing body to order 
at 10:48 a.m. Those present were: MAYOR –  Patrick Collins ; COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. 
Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark 
Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff White.  Also present was Kylie  Soden, Deputy City 
Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Approval of appointment of City Officials (pursuant to Title 2 of the Code of the City of 
Cheyenne) as follows: Charles W. Bloom  Planning & Development Director, Bradley M. 
Bowen Assistant City Treasurer (Board of Public Utilities), John A. Brodie City Attorney, Thomas 
D. Cobb City Engineer, Mark Francisco Chief of Cheyenne Police Department,  Ronnald J. 
Jeffrey Juvenile Court Judge, John B. Kopper Chief of Cheyenne Fire Rescue Department,  Robin 
L. Lockman City Treasurer, Vicki Nemecek Director of Public Works, Jason M. Sanchez Director 
of Community Recreation & Events, David E. Singleton Senior Municipal Court Judge, Kylie 
Soden City Clerk/Assistant City Treasurer . Mr. Esquibel moved to approve the appointees “en 
masse”, seconded by Mr. White .  Motion carried.  Voting “yes” -  all members of the governing 
body with the exception of Mayor Collins who did not vote (mayoral appointments).  Following 
announcement of the vote, Honorable Justice Kate Fox, Wyoming Supreme Court, administered 
the oath of appointed office to the City Officials. Comments were made by the following members 
of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
 Election of City Council President for 2025.  Mayor Collins  stated that, pursuant to City 
Code, the mayor conducts the election for Council President but does not cast a vote.  Mr. Roybal 
moved to nominate and elect Dr. Rinne  as City Council President for 20 25, seconded by Mr. 
Segrave.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” - all members of the governing body with the exception of 
Mayor Collins who did not vote. Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Dr. Aldrich. 
 
 Election of City Council Vice President for 2025.  Dr. Rinne moved to nominate and elect 
Mr. Roybal as City Council Vice President for 20 25, seconded by Mr. Esquibel. Motion carried.  
Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body with the exception of Mayor Collins  who did 
not vote.  
 
 There being no further business previously noted for the First Regular Meeting and purpose 
of the meeting have been met, the meeting was officially adjourned at 10:55 a.m. 
 
       Submitted by, 
 
 
       Kylie Soden, 
       City Clerk 
 
 This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
   
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 11, 2025 