MEETING: Sine Die | DATE: 2025-01-06 | CLIP_ID: 993 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 993

 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
 OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
 Office of City Clerk 
 
 January 6, 2025 
           
 The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in “Sine Die” Session on this date at 
10:00 a.m. in Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting .  Those present were: 
MAYOR: Patrick Collins ; COUNCIL MEMBERS: Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Bryan Cook, Ken 
Esquibel, Richard Johnson, Pete Laybourn, Dr. Mark Rinne, Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kylie Soden, Deputy City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
 Following the pledge of allegiance, Mayor Collins stated the purpose of the session was 
ceremonially recognize the outgoing Council members as well as recognize the outgoing City 
Council President for 2024. 
 
 Ceremonial Resolution in Recognition of the Honorable Bryan Cook for his Dedication and 
Outstanding Contributions to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and its Residents .  Mayor Collins 
expressed appreciation to Mr. C ook for his years of service.  Mr. Segrave moved to adopt, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried.  Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Mr . 
Cook expressed appreciation to his colleagues, constituents, city staff and family and friends for 
their support over the last 12 years. (#6448)  
 
Ceremonial Resolution in Recognition of the Honorable Richard Johnson for his 
Dedication and Outstanding Contributions to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and its Residents.   
Mayor Collins expressed appreciation to Mr. Johnson for his years of service.   Dr. Aldrich moved 
to adopt, seconded by Mr. White.  Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing 
body.  Mr. Johnson commented on his years of service as a City Council member and expressed 
appreciation to his colleagues for their support. (#6449) 
  
Mayor Collins expressed appreciation to Mr. Esquibel  for his leadership as City Council 
President for 2024. 
 
 Mayor Collins announced the First Regular Meeting of the governing body would convene  
 in City Council Chambers following the closure of the “Sine Die” session. 
 
 There being no further business previously noted for the “Sine Die” Session, Mayor Collins 
adjourned the meeting at 10:34 a.m. 
 
 
       Submitted by, 
 
 
       Kylie Soden 
       Deputy City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
PUBLISHED: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 11, 2025 