MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-01-13 | CLIP_ID: 996 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 996

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 13, 2025  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons , Ken 
Esquibel, Pete Laybourn (via Zoom), Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne  (via Zoom), Scott Roybal, 
Tom Segrave and Jeff White. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was 
recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by 
Mr. Roybal and Mr. White, item #16(b) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request by 
Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Esquibel and Mr. White, item #18(a) was 
removed from the Consent Agenda. Dr. Aldrich moved to approve remaining items, seconded by 
Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on December 23, 2024. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Sine Die Session of the Governing Body on January 6, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
[CA] Minutes from First Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 6, 2025. Motion 
(per Consent Agenda) carried.   
  
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land 
located north of Cheyenne Street and west of and adjacent to Ridge Road. Reporting for Public 
Services Committee, Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Dr. 
Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4607) 
  
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of MR Medium -Density Residential for land 
annexed to the City of Cheyenne located north of Cheyenne Street and west of and adjacent to 
Ridge Road. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich.  
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4608) 
  
 
 
2 
 
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural for land being annexed to the 
City at Lot 1, Block 1, North Range Substation, Laramie County, Wyoming (located south of 
Happy Jack Road, west of Bruns Way). Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, 
seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
(#4609) 
  
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne establishing the zoning classification of AG Agricultural for land located northeast of 
the intersection of West Allison Road and Walterscheid Boulevard. Mr. Segrave moved to approve 
on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of 
the governing body with the exception of Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody voting “no”.  Public 
comment was made by: Kathy Deister and Randy Bonic. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Moody and Dr. Rinne. (#4610)    
  
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of 
Cheyenne changing the zoning classification from Planned Unit Development (PUD) (Ordinance 
#4274) to NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density for land located north of West College 
Drive, south of West Allison Road, and west of Walterscheid Boulevard . Mr. Segrave moved to 
approve on third and final  reading, seconded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. (#4611)  
  
 ORDINANCE –3rd READING – Amending Section 10.12.020 of the Municipal Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, clarifying that failure to maintain liability coverage is a jailable 
offense. Mr. Segrave moved to approve on third and final reading, seconded by Mr. White. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. (#4612)    
   
[CA] RESOLUTION –Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2025 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16- 4-112 & 16- 4-113 – referred to Finance Committee.  
(Sponsor – Mr. Laybourn) 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Holliday Park, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection 
of East Lincolnway and Morrie Avenue) – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Segrave) 
 
[CA]  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and WYDOT for a Wyoming Rural Public 
Transportation grant to assist in providing local match for operating funds for the Transit Program 
or Fiscal Year 2025 (Revenue to the City) . Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $300,000.00). (#8115)  
 
  Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Wyoming Cattle Company for the Belvoir 
Ranch Grazing Lease. (Revenue to the City) . Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Roybal 
moved to approve in an amount of $210,000.00 annually for three years, seconded by Mr. White. 
Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. 
Segrave. (#8116) 
3 
 
[CA] Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie 
County to provide funding to community agencies and monitor performance of community 
programs (2019-2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee.  
 
[CA]  Consideration to purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Zivaro for Quest Netvault  
Software for the City of Cheyenne IT Department (General Fund).  Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried (in an amount not to exceed $125,000.00). (#8117) 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #E-7-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Alco 
Fence Co. Inc. for the Happy Jack Landfill Litter Fence Maintenance and Repair Services Project 
(Solid Waste Fund). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount not to exceed 
$381,800.00). (#8118) 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -10-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Cheyenne Tile and Stone for the Kiwanis Community House – Hardwood Floor Replacement 
project (One Time State Distribution Funds) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E -8-25 for a 15,000 GVWR, Gasoline Powered, 4- Wheel Drive 
Regular Cab and Chassis Truck With A 14- Foot Stake Bed for the Sanitation Division (Solid 
Waste Fund / Equipment) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-10-25 for One (1) Front Load Refuse Truck, and Three (3) Dual 
Arm Refuse Trucks for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund / Equipment)  – referred to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-11-25 for Two (2) Solid Waste Transfer Trailers (Walking Floor) 
for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund / Equipment) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  Request to extend the time period in which Scooters Scoreboard, LLC d/b/a Scooters 
Scoreboard Bar has to become operational for an additional year for their retail liquor license, 
located at 619 East Lincolnway, Cheyenne, Wyoming. Mr. Roybal moved to approve, seconded 
by Mr. Moody. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments 
were made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Dr. Rinne. 
 
 Governing body comment s were made by Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Moody on the Voucher 
Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made that due to the Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday on Monday, 
January 20, 2025, the regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will instead be held 
in the Municipal Building, Room 104, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic 
conference meeting as follows: Public Services Committee will meet Tuesday, January 21, 2025 
at Noon and Finance Committee will meet Wednesday, January 22, 2025 at Noon. 
 
 Public comments were made by the following under Other Business: Corey Lynn Loghry, 
Sam Galeotos, Bryan Grzegorczyk, Glenn Garrett, Steve Borin, Astrid, Susan Allen, Sandy Inniss 
and Virginia Dandy Brinkerhoff.  
  
4 
 
 Comments were made by the following members of the governing body under other 
business: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. Moody and Mr. Segrave.   
 
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:59 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  January 18, 2025  
   