MEETING: City Council Meeting | DATE: 2025-01-27 | CLIP_ID: 998 | SOURCE: cheyenne.granicus.com MinutesViewer clip 998

1 
 
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
January 27, 2025  
  
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in Council Chambers and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: MAYOR 
– Patrick Collins , COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle  Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons , Ken 
Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody,  Dr. Mark Rinne , Scott Roybal, Tom Segrave and Jeff 
White. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda. Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Esquibel and Mr. Roybal, item #11(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Segrave 
moved to approve the remaining items, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – 
all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on January 13, 2025. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending various sections of Chapter 15.08, 15.09,  
15.10, 15.12, 15.16, 15.22, 15.24 and 15.26 of Title 15, Buildings and Construction, of the 
Municipal Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, updating specified Building Code 
requirements and making technical corrections as further specified  – referred to Public Services 
Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING –  Amending various sections within Chapter 8.12, 
International Fire Code adopted, of Title 8, Health and Safety, of the Municipal Code of the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming, updating the edition of the International Fire Code adopted by the City 
and further amending as specified – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. 
Segrave) 
 
 ORDINANCE –1st READING – Amending section 8.24.020 of the Municipal Code of the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, clarifying and further regulating the installation of above -ground 
tanks and containers as specified – referred to Public Services Committee. (Sponsor – Mr. Segrave) 
   
[CA] RESOLUTION –Reappropriating the Fiscal Year 2025 Budget of the City of Cheyenne 
according to the provisions of W.S. §§ 16- 4-112 & 16- 4-113. Motion (per Consent Agenda) 
carried. (#6450) 
 
2 
 
[CA] RESOLUTION – Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign a Final Plat for 
Holliday Park, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming (located northeast of the intersection 
of East Lincolnway and Morrie Avenue). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried. (#6451) 
 
 Human Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and United Way of Laramie 
County to provide funding to community agencies and monitor performance of community 
programs (2019- 2022 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) . Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. 
Laybourn moved to approve in an amount of  $100,000.00, s econded by Dr. Aldrich. Motion 
carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Mr. Laybourn. (#8124) 
 
[CA] Lease Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Girl Scouts of Montana and 
Wyoming, for 45.93 acres of city- owned real property located near the former Roundtop Water 
Treatment Facility to be used for the purposes of conducting activities consistent with the By-Laws 
and Articles of Incorporation of the Girl Scouts of Montana and Wyoming (Revenue to the City)  
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8070 with Wyoming Department of Health, Aging 
Division to provide transportation support services to persons 60 years or older under the Title 
IIIB Program Grant for FY25 (IIIB Division on Aging Grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #S -10-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Cheyenne Tile and Stone for the Kiwanis Community House – Hardwood Floor Replacement 
project (One Time State Distribution Funds). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried (in an amount 
not to exceed $85,950.00). (#8125) 
 
 Consideration of Bid #E -8-25 for a 15,000 GVWR, Gasoline Powered, 4- Wheel Drive 
Regular Cab and Chassis Truck with a 14-Foot Stake Bed for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste 
Fund / Equipment) . Mr. Laybourn moved to approve  the bid from Ken Garff, Cheyenne, in an 
amount not to exceed $75,924.00, seconded by Dr . Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all 
members of the governing body. Comments were made by the following members of the governing 
body: Mr. Esquibel and Dr. Rinne. 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-10-25 for One (1) Front Load Refuse Truck, and Three (3)  Dual 
Arm Refuse Trucks for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund / Equipment) . Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried (accepted bid from Cheyenne Peterbilt Inc. Jackson Group Peterbilt, 
Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed $2,038,492.00). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #E-11-25 for Two (2) Solid Waste Transfer Trailers (Walking Floor) 
for the Sanitation Division (Solid Waste Fund / Equipment). Motion (per Consent Agenda) carried 
(accepted bid from Ameri -Tech Equipment Company, Cheyenne, in an amount not to exceed 
$275,968.22). 
 
[CA] Consideration of Bid #  S-11-25 for an Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and 
Academy Sports Turf, Inc., for the Pioneer Park Baseball Field Synthetic Turf Replacement 
Project (One Time State Distribution Funds, Community Facility Fees)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
3 
 
  Appointment of Michael O’Donnell to the Board of Adjustment. Mr. Roybal  moved to 
approve, seconded by Mr. White. Motion carried. Voting “yes” –  all members of the governing 
body present with the exception of Mr. Moody voting “no” and Mayor Collins who did not vote 
(mayoral appointment). Comments were made by the following members of the governing body:  
Dr. Aldrich, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Moody. 
 
 Governing body comments were made by Mr. Moody on the Voucher Report as presented. 
 
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held on February 10, 2025, in City 
Council Chambers, 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, WY, and via electronic conference meeting, 
in accordance with Wyo. Stat. §15- 9-208(c) on the Plan of Development for the Downtown 
Development Area. 
 
 Public comments were made by the following under Other Business: Brandon Swain.  
  
 There being no further business to come before the  governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:16 p.m. 
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  February 5, 2025  
   