 
 
 
 
 
MEMO 
 
TO:   Honorable Mayor Patrick J. Collins, City of Cheye nne 
Members of the City Council, City of Cheyenne 
 
FROM:  Wesley D. Bay, P.E., City Drainage Engineer 
 
DATE:  June 4, 2025 
 
SUBJECT: Professional Service Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and HDR 
Engineering, Inc., for the 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project.  
 
 
Please find the attached Professional Service Agreement between the City and HDR Engineering, 
Inc., for the 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project.   
 
The project is located along 18 th  Street Between Snyder Avenue and House Avenue. The project 
consists of the design of a storm sewer interceptor  to protect the historic downtown area from 
flooding, water transmission system design, sanitar y sewer component replacement, ADA 
upgrades bringing this section of 18 th  Street into full ADA compliance, roadway design, a nd 
streetscape design.   
 
Engineering Staff evaluates fee proposals for engin eering services based on time and material 
estimates for the specific project.  Those costs ar e readily tracked and verified during design 
operations and the City only pays for the actual ti me expended. We believe this agreement will 
provide the required services to complete analysis and preliminary design portion of the project. 
 
Funding for this project will come from the 23 – 26 Optional 1% Tax Fund (5 th  Penny), a Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP) grant and 
the Board of Public Utility. The total professional  services will be a cost not-to-exceed 
$1,100,562.00. We respectfully request your approval of this professional services agreement. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
CITY ENGINEER ’S OFFICE  
2101 O’Neil Avenue  
Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001  
 
Page 1 of 8 
City Contract No. ____________ 
 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
for 
18th Street Reconstruction Project 
 
This Professional Services Agreement (“Agreement”) is  made and entered into by and 
between the City of Cheyenne, located at 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 
(“City”), and HDR Engineering, Inc., located at 7350 Stockman Street, Suite A, Cheyenne, WY 
82009 (“Consultant”). This Agreement shall become effective upon the date of the last signature 
affixed hereto. 
 
RECITALS 
 
In consideration of the mutual covenants and obligations herein expressed, it is agreed by 
and between the parties as follows: 
 
1. SCOPE OF WORK 
The Consultant agrees to provide services as described for the above-mentioned project, in 
accordance with the Scope of Work attached hereto as Exhibit A, incorporated by reference 
and expressly made a part hereof. 
 
2. TIME OF PERFORMANCE 
The work included in this Scope of Work extends until the work described in Exhibit A is 
completed. 
 
3. COMPENSATION 
In consideration of the services to be performed pursuant to this Agreement, the Consultant 
will bill the City and the City agrees to pay Consultant a not to exceed amount of  One 
Million One Hundred Thousand Five Hundred Sixty -Two Dollars ($1,100,562.00) as 
stated in Exhibit A. 
 
4. CONSULTANT RESPONSIBILITY 
In providing services under this Agreement, the Consultant shall perform in a manner 
consistent with that degree of care and skill ordinarily exercised by members of the same 
profession currently practicing under similar circumstances. Upon notice to the Consultant, 
the Consultant will, without additional compensation, correct those services not meeting 
such a standard. 
 
5. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS 
The Parties agree that they will perform their obligations as provided in this Agreement in 
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances. 
 
 
Page 2 of 8 
6. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE 
In compliance with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of November 1988, the City of Cheyenne 
has established an Alcohol and Controlled Substance Policy that pertains to alcohol and 
drug usage by City Employees. All architects, engineers , and other consultants under 
contract with City of Cheyenne, and their employees and sub -consultants, are required to 
comply with the provisions of the City’s Alcohol and Controlled Substance Policy for drug 
and/or alcohol usage on City property or other s ites occupied by the Consultant while 
performing the duties and responsibilities of the Agreeme nt. It is the responsibility of the 
Consultant to familiarize themselves with the requirements of this policy and to inform all 
their employees and sub -consultants of the requirements and ensure their compliance. If 
the Consultant, their employees or sub-consultants are found in violation of this policy, the 
Agreement may be terminated. 
 
7. INDEMNIFICATION/HOLD HARMLESS 
The Consultant agrees to indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the City from and against 
any and all liabilities, claims, penalties, forfeitures , and suits, and the cost and expenses 
incident thereto, including reasonable attorney’s fees, which may hereafter arise as a result 
the performance of the Consultant’s duties, including death or bodily injury to any person, 
destruction or damage to any pro perty, contamination of or adverse effects on the 
environment, or any violation of governmental laws, regulation s, or orders to the extent 
caused by (1) the Consultant’s breach of any term or provision of this Agreement; or (2) 
any negligent or wrongful act, error , or omission by the Consultant, or its employees or 
sub-consultants in the performance of this Agreement. The Consultant acknowledges that 
it may incur a financial obligation to the City pursuant to the terms of this paragraph. 
 
8. INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
The Consultant must provide proof of the following insurance coverages: 
 
 Commercial General Liability Insurance 
For claims arising out of bodily injury, illness, or death, or from damage to or destruction 
of property of others, including loss or use thereof, with minimum limits of $1,000,000 per 
occurrence, $2,000,000 aggregate for the entire term of the Agreement. 
 
 Workers’ Compensation 
Workers’ compensation coverage shall be in effect for the entire term of the Agreement, 
as required by Wyoming law, for all employees or agents providing services under this 
Agreement. Consultant shall provide the City with proof of workers’ compensation o r 
employer’s liability insurance coverage. 
 
 Professional Liability Insurance 
The Consultant shall provide proof of professional liability insurance or errors and 
omissions liability insurance in an amount not less than $500,000 to protect from any and 
all claims arising from the Consultant’s negligence in the performance of duties under this 
Agreement. The City prefers that this liability insurance coverage be provided pursuant to 
an “occurrence” policy. 
 
Page 3 of 8 
 
If this coverage is provided pursuant to a “claims made” policy: 
  a. Consultant shall, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, 
provide the City with a certificate of insurance demonstrating that such 
coverage is or shall be in effect at the time the Consultant begins the 
provision of services under this Agreement; and 
  b. In the event the Consultant’s services extend into a future policy period, the 
Consultant shall, prior to the policy expiration date, provide the City with a 
new certificate of insurance demonstrating that such coverage is or shall be 
in effect during  all periods of time that Consultant will provide services 
under this Agreement; and 
  c. Consultant shall maintain said “claims made” coverage for a period of five 
(5) years following the last date that Consultant has provided services under 
this Agreement; and 
  d. In the event the Consultant or the insurer terminates “claims made” 
coverage prior to the expiration of the periods provided in subparagraphs a., 
b., or c. of this paragraph, the Consultant shall provide to the City advance 
written notification of the termination of said coverage and shall provide the 
City with an endorsement for an extended reporting period (“tail coverage”) 
which shall be in effect for a period of time not less than five (5) years 
following the last date that Consultant has provided services under this 
Agreement.  
 
 Additional Insurance Information 
 
The Consultant shall name the City of Cheyenne as an Additional Insured  by 
endorsement on its insurance policies and shall provide the City with a copy of the 
endorsements. This requirement does not apply to workers’ compensation and professional 
liability insurance policies. 
 
Consultant shall provide the City with certificates of insurance acknowledging the above -
stated coverages prior to beginning any work under this Agreement. 
 
It is understood and agreed that these policies are primary and not contributory. All policies 
required under this Agreement shall be in effect for the duration of the Agreement. It shall 
be an affirmative obligation upon Consultant to immediately notify in writing the city risk 
manager, city clerk, and city attorney of any fact, circumstance, or occurrence that has 
resulted in or may result in the cancellation of, or substantive change to any insurance 
coverage required by this Agreement, and failure to do so shall be construed to be a breach 
of this Agreement. 
 
If requested by the City, the Consultant shall provide the City with copies of insurance 
policy endorsements listing the City of Cheyenne as an additional insured. The City’s 
failure to request or review such endorsements or certificates shall not affect t he City’s 
rights or Consultant’s obligation hereunder. 
 
Page 4 of 8 
 
Any insurance company providing coverage under this Agreement shall have a minimum 
A. M. Best rating of A- (excellent). 
 
9. MINORITY AND DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES  49 C.F.R. Part 26  
All parties to this Agreement assure that no person will be excluded from participation in, 
denied the benefits of, or otherwise discriminated against, in connection with the award 
and performance of this Agreement on the grounds of age, race, color, disab ility, national 
origin, or sex. 
 
10. MONTHLY REPORT 
With every monthly billing, Consultant shall provide the City Representative with a written 
statement of the status of the work with respect to the Scope of Work, time sheets, and 
work schedule. Failure to provide the required monthly report will delay processing of any 
payment request until the report is submitted. 
 
11. INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT 
The Consultant shall function as an independent consultant for the purposes of this 
Agreement. The Consultant shall assume sole responsibility for any debts or liabilities that 
may be incurred by the Consultant in fulfilling the terms of this Agreement. Nothing in this 
Agreement shall be interpreted as authorizing the Consultant or its agents or employees to 
act as an agent or representative of or on behalf of the City or to incur any obligation of 
any kind on the behalf of the City. 
 
12. TAXES 
The Consultant agrees to pay all valid taxes, excises, license fees, permit fees, bills, debts, 
and obligations incurred by and in connection with its operations under this Agreement. 
 
13. DEFAULT 
Each and every term and condition in this Agreement shall be deemed to be a material 
element of the Agreement. In the event either party should fail or refuse to perform 
according to the terms of this Agreement, such party may be declared in default. 
 
14. REMEDIES 
In the event a party has been declared in default, such defaulting party shall be allowed a 
period of fifteen (15) days within which to cure the default. In the event the default remains 
uncorrected, the non-defaulting party declaring default may elect to: 
  a. Terminate the Agreement and seek damages, which damages shall not 
exceed the contract amount; or 
  b. Treat the Agreement as continuing and require specific performance. 
 
15. TERM AND TERMINATION 
The term of this  Agreement shall be f rom date of execution through the completion of 
services. The parties may by mutual written agreement renew or extend this Agreement. 
 
 
Page 5 of 8 
The City may, without cause, and upon thirty days’ written notice to the Consultant, 
terminate this Agreement in whole or in part at any time, for the City’s convenience. Upon 
receipt of such notice, the Consultant shall: 
  a. Discontinue all services affected; and 
  b. Deliver to the City within five (5) days all data, drawings, specifications, 
reports, estimates, summaries, and such other information and materials as 
may have been accumulated by the Consultant in performing this 
Agreement, whether completed or in process. 
  c. In the event of termination for convenience, the City will pay the Consultant 
for accepted work done and expenses incurred to the date of termination. 
Such acceptance shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
 
16. ADDITIONAL REMEDIES 
In the event the Consultant fails to strictly perform in accordance with this Agreement, the 
City may elect to correct the deficiencies and charge the Consultant. In the event of default 
of any of the conditions by either party which shall require the part y not in default to 
commence legal or equitable action against the defaulting party each party shall bear its 
own costs and expenses, including without limitation, attorney’s fees.  
 
17. GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND VENUE 
The construction, interpretation, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by 
the laws of the State of Wyoming. The courts of the State of Wyoming shall have 
jurisdiction over any action arising out of this Agreement and over the parties, and the 
venue shall be the First Judicial District, Laramie County, Wyoming. 
 
18. GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY 
The City of Cheyenne, along with its officials and employees, does not waive its 
governmental immunity by entering into this Agreement, except to the extent necessary for 
the parties to pursue a contract action to clarify or enforce the written terms of th e 
Agreement. Furthermore, the City specifically retains all immunities and defenses 
available to it as a sovereign or governmental entity pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 1 -39-101, et 
seq., and all other relevant state and federal law. Designations of venue, choic e of law, 
enforcement actions, and similar provisions should not be constructed as a waiver of 
governmental immunity. The parties agree that any ambiguity in this Agreement shall not 
be strictly construed, either against or for either party, except that an y ambiguity as to 
governmental or sovereign immunity shall be construed in favor of governmental 
immunity. 
 
19. MONITORING ACTIVITIES 
The City shall have the right to monitor all activities related to this Agreement that are 
performed by the Consultant or its sub -consultants. This shall include, but not be limited 
to, the right to make site inspections at any time and with reasonable notice; to bring experts 
and consultants on site to examine or evaluate completed work or work in progress; to 
examine the books, ledgers, documents, papers, and records pertinent to this Agreement; 
and to observe personnel in every phase of performance of the related work. 
 
Page 6 of 8 
 
20. OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS AND WORK PRODUCT 
All deliverables by the Consultant, all work product of the Consultant, all notes, 
calculations, memoranda, or any other documentation generated by the Consultant 
pursuant to the scope of this Agreement, shall be the property of the City of Cheyenne and 
shall be provided to the City of Cheyenne immediately upon request. 
 
21. NON-DISCRIMINATION 
The Consultant shall comply with the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Wyoming Fair 
Employment Practices Act (Wyo. Stat. § 27 -9-105, et seq .), the Americans With 
Disabilities Act (ADA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 12101, et seq ., and the Age 
Discrimination Act of 1975 and any properly promulgated rules and regulations thereto, 
and shall not discriminate against any individual on the grounds of age, sex, creed, color, 
race, religion, national origin, ancestry, pregnancy or qualif ying disability in connection 
with the performance under this Agreement. 
 
22. FORCE MAJEURE. 
The performance of the Agreement by either party shall be subject to force majeure 
including, but not limited to, acts of God, fire, flood, natural disaster, war or threat of war, 
acts or threats of terrorism, civil disorder, unauthorized strikes, governmental regulation or 
advisory, recognized health threats as determined by the World Health Organization, the 
Centers for Disease Control, or local government authority or health agencies (including, 
but not limited to, the health threats of COVID-19, H1N1, or similar infectious diseases), 
curtailment of transportation facilities, or other similar occurrence beyond the control of 
the parties, where any of those factors, circumstances, situations, or conditions or similar 
ones prevent, dissuade, or unreasonably delay the performance required by this Agreement. 
The Agreement may be cancelled by either party, without liability, damages, fees, or 
penalty, and any unused deposits or amounts paid shall be refunded, for any one or more 
of the above reasons, by written notice to the other party. 
 
23. PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION 
The Consultant shall endorse, as required by law, plans and reports prepared under this 
Agreement, and shall affix thereto his or her seal of professional registration, showing that 
he or she is licensed to practice in the State of Wyoming, if necessary. 
 
24. SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL CONDITIONS 
In consideration of the mutual covenants and obligations herein expressed, it is further 
agreed by and between the parties as follows: 
 
Standard of Care. The standard of care for all professional consulting and related services 
performed or furnished by Consultant under this Agreement will be the care and skill 
ordinarily used by members of the subject profession practicing under similar 
circumstances at the same time and in the same locality. The Consultant makes no 
warranties, express or implied, under this Agreement or otherwise, in connection with any 
services performed or furnished by Consultant.  
 
Page 7 of 8 
 
Technical Accuracy. The City shall not be responsible for discovering deficiencies in the 
technical accuracy of Consultant’s services. Consultant shall correct deficiencies in 
technical accuracy without additional compensation unless such corrective action is 
directly attributable to deficiencies in City-furnished information. 
 
Conflicts within the Agreement. If there is a conflict within this Agreement, the order of 
priority of the documents which make up this Agreement, from highest to lowest, will be: 
(a) Agreement. 
(b) Any supplementary conditions to the General Conditions. 
(c) General Conditions. 
(d) Exhibit A – Scope of Work with Attachments 1 and 2 
(e) Other schedules to this Agreement. 
 
Any changes in the Consultant’s or Subconsultant’s staff or fee structure will be presented 
in writing to the City for approval prior to initiating any changes or performing any work. 
 
Overhead and Normal Business Expenses.  The Consultant shall include customary 
overhead costs and statutory benefits as part including, but not limited to, social security 
contributions, unemployment, excise and payroll taxes, workers’ compensation, health and 
retirement benefits, bonuses, sick leave, vacation , and holiday pay, as applicable, within 
the billing rates furnished in Exhibit A. Additionally, the cost of general and administrative 
overhead which includes salaries and wages of employees engaged in business operations 
not directly chargeable to projects, plus non -Project operating costs, including but not 
limited to, business taxes, legal, rent, utilities, office supplies, insurance, and other 
operating costs shall not be directly billed to project and assumed to be included within the 
billing rates furnished. 
 
Design Process Documentation. To document the design process, the consultant will be 
required to provide a Decision and Design Log for the project duration. This log shall be 
furnished to the City of Cheyenne in conjunction with the project meetings. The purpose 
of the log is to docum ent and track major decisions during the design and development 
process. The log shall generally follow the format outlined in Table 1. Design and Decision 
Log: 
 
 
 
 
 
[REMAINDER OF PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK] 
  
 
Page 8 of 8 
 
Table 1. Design and Decision Log 
No. Date Decision Alternatives 
Considered Reasons Decision 
Made By 
Additional 
Task 
Required 
Sequenced 
log 
number. 
Date the 
decision 
was made. 
A one-
sentence 
summary of 
the decision 
made. 
A list of the 
other 
approaches 
considered. 
A two to three 
sentence 
summary of why 
the decision was 
made. A link to 
additional 
documentation, 
if required and 
[Title]. 
Who made 
this 
decision? 
If applicable, 
a list of 
additional 
tasks required 
by the design 
or follow-up 
required. 
 
25. ENTIRETY OF AGREEMENT 
This Agreement consisting of eight (8) pages, and Exhibit A consisting of forty-seven (47) 
pages, contain the entire understanding of the parties. There are no other terms or 
conditions, written or oral, concerning or controlling this matter.  
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties to this Agreement, through their duly authorized 
representatives, have executed this Agreement on the days and dates set out below and certify that 
they have read, understood, and knowingly and voluntarily agreed to the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement. This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be 
deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
 
      City of Cheyenne 
 
 
      By: ______________________________________ 
(SEAL)      Patrick Collins, Mayor 
 
Attest: 
 
________________________________ Date: _____________________________________ 
Kylie Soden, City Clerk 
 
 
      Consultant 
 
      By: ______________________________________ 
 
      Print Name: _______________________________ 
 
      Date: _____________________________________ 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
Project Name:  18th  Street Reconstruction Project  
 
Page 1 of 8 
 
Exhibit A – Scope of Work 
Table of Contents 
A.1 Overview  ............................................................................................................................................ 2 
A.2 Project Description  ............................................................................................................................. 2 
A.2.a Overview  ..................................................................................................................................... 2 
A.2.b Project History and Existing Facilities  ........................................................................................ 2 
A.2.d Proposed Improvements  .............................................................................................................. 3 
A.2.e Right-Of-Way  .............................................................................................................................. 3 
A.2.f Project Funding and Timing  ........................................................................................................ 3 
A.3 General Conditions  ............................................................................................................................ 4 
A.4 Environmental Clearances  ................................................................................................................. 4 
A.5 Public Involvement  ............................................................................................................................ 4 
A.6 General Design  ................................................................................................................................... 5 
A.6.a Design and Construction Standards  ............................................................................................ 5 
A.6.b Surveying  .................................................................................................................................... 5 
A.6.c Utilities  ........................................................................................................................................ 5 
A.6.d Drainage Impact Study  ................................................................................................................ 6 
A.6.e Geotechnical Investigation  .......................................................................................................... 6 
A.6.f Surfacing Recommendations  ....................................................................................................... 6 
A.7 Plan Submittals  .................................................................................................................................. 6 
A.7.a General  ........................................................................................................................................ 6 
A.7.b Preliminary Plans  ........................................................................................................................ 7 
A.7.c 60% Plans  .................................................................................................................................... 7 
A.7.d 90% Plans  .................................................................................................................................... 7 
A.7.e Final Plans  ................................................................................................................................... 8 
 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
Project Name:  18th  Street Reconstruction Project  
 
Page 2 of 8 
 
A.1 Overview  
 
Consultant services for the 18th  Street Reconstruction Project are the design and development of a complete 
set of construction documents, including plans, specifications, and estimates. Any innovative solutions that 
are cost effective and meet project goals will be i ncorporated during project scoping negotiations and  
included in the design.  Work required for this pro ject will include project management; hydrologic an d 
hydraulic analysis; storm and sanitary sewer design ; water transmission system design; roadway design;  
geotechnical investigation; right-of-way surveying; and utility location, coordination, and design. 
The project requires a professional design team tha t includes a Civil Engineer licensed in the State o f 
Wyoming with a minimum of 10 years of project desig n experience in  one or more of the following 
disciplines: storm and sanitary sewer design; hydrologic and hydraulic analysis; water transmission system 
design; roadway design; with the ability to provide in-house or capacity to sub-consult for survey services, 
geotechnical investigation and those disciplines required for the project.  
 
A.2 Project Description 
 
A.2.a Overview 
 
The project is located along 18 th  Street and extends from House Avenue west to Snyde r Avenue, or 
potentially Crow Creek, as vetted through the storm sewer design. The 18 th  Street Reconstruction project is 
comprised of roadway design, storm sewer design, sa nitary sewer design, and water transmission system 
design. 
The project will include the design of a storm sewe r interceptor mainline and inlets along 18 th  Street. The 
outfall may be done via a tie-in with the existing 19 th  Street 60” steel reinforced polyethylene (SRPE) 
interceptor pipe and/or extend to Crow Creek under 18 th  Street. This will require determining if the 19 th  
storm main has sufficient capacity to take on storm water from the proposed 18 th  Street system. Included in 
the hydrologic and hydraulic analysis of this portion of the Capitol Basin will be the evaluation of additional 
storm infrastructure that has been constructed within the last decade. These systems include the 26 th  Street 
Interceptor, Civic Commons storm system and detention pond, and the 19 th  Street Interceptor. 
This project also includes the replacement of the e xisting water main from Snyder Ave to House Ave 
including a new casing under the Reed Ave railroad tracks. The new water main will be relocated to the  
typical ROW alignment where possible and eliminate parallel mains.  The replacement will include all 
branch water mains, fire hydrant leads, fire hydrants, and water service lines within the ROW.  This project 
also includes the replacement of the existing manholes and lampholes in the ROW. 
A.2.b Project History and Existing Facilities 
 
18 th  Street within the proposed project limits is a min or collector. The 18th Street roadway corridor has a 
multitude of both wet and dry utilities, most of which are in need of replacement. There is insufficient storm 
sewer to protect the central and eastern downtown area during significant storm events.. The cast iron water 
main in the corridor dates from the 1940’s to 1960’ s and is corroded and undersized for adequate water  
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
Project Name:  18th  Street Reconstruction Project  
 
Page 3 of 8 
 
pressure and volume for fire protection. The water lines will need to be adjusted to accommodate the 
increased storm sewer main size and inlet laterals. 
A.2.d Proposed Improvements 
 
Proposed improvements include roadway reconstruction, storm sewer construction, sanitary sewer 
upgrades, water transmission system upgrades, ADA upgrades, and utility relocation.  
At a minimum, the following should be expected as tasks for the project: 
• Roadway geometric design. 
o Vertical and horizontal alignment of 18th  Street. 
 Establishment of a tie between roadway and wet utilities components. 
 Constraints from existing buildings, intersections, and overall area topography 
will allow for only minimal changes to the vertical and horizontal alignments of 
18 th  Street. 
 ADA facility upgrades in the ROW. 
• Storm sewer design 
o Hydrologic and hydraulic evaluation  
 Evaluation of added infrastructure to the west and central portions of the Capitol 
Drainage Basin. 
o Interceptor sizing, inlet locations, and associated elevations. 
• Potable water transmission system design. 
o Mains, fire hydrant leads, fire hydrants, and service lines in the ROW. 
• Sanitary sewer design. 
o Manhole and lamphole replacement in the ROW. 
A.2.e Right-Of-Way 
 
Right-of-way acquisition is not anticipated for this project.  
 
A.2.f Project Funding and Timing 
 
There is sufficient funding allocated toward the design of the project. The storm sewer design will be 
partially funded by a FEMA grant. Roadway design will be funded by the 5 th  Penny Optional Sales tax. 
Sanitary sewer wand water transmission design will be funded by the Board of Public Utilities (BOPU). 
This will require invoicing breakouts of each of the three funding mechanisms for design services and bid 
items. 
The design phase of the project is anticipated to be completed within fourteen (14) months from the date 
of execution of a Professional Services Agreement with the selected firm, or by August 1 st , 2026. 
The construction of the project will be postponed until sufficient funding is available. An additional RFP 
will be released for construction management and/or engineering assistance at that time. 
 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
Project Name:  18th  Street Reconstruction Project  
 
Page 4 of 8 
 
A.3 General Conditions 
 
The following items are included as part of the basic compensation for this project: 
• Normal business expenses - phone, postage, etc. 
• Cost of insurance. 
• In-house computer time and service. 
• Word processing, accounting, and man-hour records. 
• Permits and license fees. 
• Mileage. 
• Travel fees, room and board, per diem. 
• Printing costs for all standard review, bidding, and as-constructed plans and other correspondence 
and contract documents. 
• Film and processing. 
 
Additional items which will be addressed: 
 
All subconsultant fees at cost, which may include: 
• Surveying. 
• Utility investigation. 
• Geotechnical Investigation. 
 
Other items: 
• Overtime engineering and inspection. 
• Special inspections, including vacuum excavation potholing. 
• Survey materials, stakes, etc. 
• Coordination with franchised utilities. 
• Additional required services. 
 
Any changes in the Consultant’s or Subconsultant’s staff or fee structure will be presented in writing to the 
City for approval prior to initiating any changes or performing any work. 
 
All pay invoices will include a summary comparing t he proposed schedule and actual work completed, 
actions items outstanding for both the City and Con sultant, a summary of work completed during the pay  
period, and commentary associated with impacts to the schedule. 
 
A.4 Environmental Clearances 
 
Environmental clearances are not anticipated for the project. 
 
A.5 Public Involvement 
 
Three public meetings will be held for the project.   The Consultant will provide public notice and med ia 
releases with assistance from the city; coordinate the venue of the meeting; prepare exhibits, handouts, and 
comment cards; and correlate public comments. A pre liminary public meeting will be held to gain public  
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
Project Name:  18th  Street Reconstruction Project  
 
Page 5 of 8 
 
input on the preferred intersection and roadway con figuration. Two additional meetings will be held af ter 
the 30% and 60% plan issuances. 
 
A.6 General Design 
 
A.6.a Design and Construction Standards 
 
All design and construction will be done in accordance with the latest edition of the applicable standards 
including, but not limited to, the following:  
• AASHTO Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets. 
• AASHTO LRFD Bridge Design Specifications. 
• AASHTO Roadside Design Guide 
• AASHTO Guide for the Development of Bicycle Facilities 
• Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. 
• City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities Standards and Specifications.  
• WYDOT Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction (structure only).  
• City of Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC). 
• Applicable railroad standards if in railroad ROW.  
 
Conflicts between design and construction standards will be resolved by the City. 
 
A.6.b Surveying 
 
Right-of-way surveying will be completed for the extent of the project as needed to complete the project 
design. Project control points will be established as needed. All surveying, design, and temporary control 
points will be referenced in the City control network.  Property corners necessary to establish the right-of-
way will be monumented as necessary. Existing right-of-way, any required permanent and temporary 
easements, and parcel ownership will be shown in the project plan sheets.  
 
A.6.c Utilities 
 
All known utilities will be investigated and incorporated into the project design. These include, at a 
minimum: 
• Telephone. 
• Internet and cable. 
• Electric and gas. 
• Water and sanitary sewer. 
• Signals, signs, and storm sewer. 
• Fiber optic cable. 
Any conflicts with other utilities, either active or abandoned, will be investigated and resolved.  
Preliminary construction sequencing/phasing and traffic routing plans along with special provisions will 
be developed to facilitate utility work. Locates will be performed for any potential utility conflicts, this 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
Project Name:  18th  Street Reconstruction Project  
 
Page 6 of 8 
 
includes both surface utility locates and non-destructive subsurface utility excavation locates. All utilities 
within the project limits will be shown on the project plan sheets.  
 
A.6.d Drainage Impact Study 
 
A Drainage Impact Study will be performed for the project area in accordance with Section 3.2 of the 
Unified Development Code. The report will document the drainage impacts (if any), both upstream and 
downstream, of the project and present a design to mitigate any negative impacts.  All supporting 
calculations will be included in the report. 
 
A.6.e Geotechnical Investigation 
 
A geotechnical investigation will be performed within the project limits and will include as necessary, but 
not be limited to: 
• Geological strata defining soil and/or bedrock locations and elevations. 
• Soil and/or rock properties. 
• Soil classification. 
• Recommended retaining wall and foundation types for any structures on the project (LRFD 
values). 
• Subsurface drainage characteristics. 
• Groundwater location. 
• Any other characteristics not explicitly stated herein but required for completion of the project. 
The results of the geological investigation and recommendations will be summarized in a geotechnical 
report. All required data, testing, bore hole locations, results, and recommendations, for the afore-
mentioned investigations, will be summarized and included in the report.  
 
A.6.f Surfacing Recommendations 
 
Surfacing recommendations will be prepared based on geotechnical investigations performed throughout 
the project limits. The recommendations will outline surfacing thicknesses and recommended materials 
for subbase, base, and finished grade courses. Surfacing recommendations, material types, mix designs, 
and associated rates of application will be summarized in a pavement design report. All material types 
and rates of application will be included in the design plan summaries.    
 
A.7 Plan Submittals 
 
A.7.a General 
 
Requirements for each formal plan issuance are outlined below and will act as a general guideline for 
submittals. All plan issuances will show utilities on plan and profile sheets. Additional intermediate and 
informal plan issuances may be required due any unforeseen issues encountered during the design 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
Project Name:  18th  Street Reconstruction Project  
 
Page 7 of 8 
 
process. It should be expected that there will be two rounds of reviews and one plan inspection meeting 
for each plan issuance.  
 
A.7.b Preliminary Plans 
 
Preliminary plans will be submitted illustrating the conceptual roadway alignment, wet utility alignments, 
and proposed utility relocation. These plans should be approximately 30% complete. The general layout 
of the roadway, intersections/ADA, and wet utilities be clear and assist in the visualization and 
verification of the recommended design parameters and configurations. At a minimum, this plan submittal 
will include the following design elements: 
• Roadway alignments. 
• Preliminary storm sewer, sanitary sewer, and water transmission system alignments. 
• Preliminary earthwork. 
• Alternative design options that remain undecided.  
• Preliminary Engineer’s opinion of probable cost.  
 
A.7.c 60% Plans 
 
60% plans will be submitted containing the general layout of the roadway, intersection, and structures. 
These elements should be nearly finalized with only minor adjustments needed for utilities and right-of-
way. At a minimum, the plans will include the following design elements: 
• Vertical and horizontal roadway alignments with plan and profile sheets. 
• Roadway typical sections 
• Vertical and horizontal alignments for storm sewer, sanitary sewer, and water transmission 
system alignments with plan and profile sheets. 
• Construction easements. 
• Intersection/ADA layouts. 
• Earthwork. 
• Estimated quantities. 
• Engineer’s opinion of probable costs. 
 
A.7.d 90% Plans 
 
90% plans will be submitted when all right-of-way and utilities have been delineated and proposed 
relocations (if required) are finalized. All design elements required for the previous submittal will be 
finalized and incorporated into this plan set. This submittal will contain a complete set of construction 
documents, including plans, specifications, and estimates. This set of plans will contain the following: 
• Title sheet. 
• Legend sheet. 
• Summary sheets, using City bid items, which will include: 
o Individual summaries for all pay items. 
o Total Estimated Quantities summary. 
• Roadway typical sections. 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
Project Name:  18th  Street Reconstruction Project  
 
Page 8 of 8 
 
• Roadway Plan and Profile sheets. 
• Storm sewer plan and profile sheets. 
• Sanitary sewer plan and profile sheets. 
• Water transmission system plan and profile sheets. 
• Necessary detail sheets for storm sewer, sanitary sewer, and water transmission system. 
• Intersection/ADA layouts and details sheets. 
• In addition to design plans the submittal will contain: 
o Design cross sections. 
o Earthwork. 
o Index of City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utility Standard drawings. 
o Index of Standard WYDOT plans. 
o Index of Supplementary Specifications to the Standard Specifications. 
o Special Provisions to supplement the Standard Specifications. 
o Engineer’s opinion of probable costs. 
 
A.7.e Final Plans 
 
All elements presented in previous plans will be finalized and all required changes from each respective 
plan issuance will be incorporated into this plan set. This submittal will contain a 100% complete set of 
construction documents, including plans, specifications, and estimates. All electronic design and plan files 
will be submitted to the City for archiving. 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  | 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project
Scope of Services – Rev.2 | May 2025
 
1 
 
Scope of Services – Rev.2 
 
May 16 th , 2025 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
HDR has responded to an RFP issued by the City of Cheyenne on March 6 th , 2025; upon selection HDR 
has developed the below scope of services combines the desired and stated Scope of Work and in 
discussion with City Staff as well as HDR’s evaluation and interpretation of the level of effort required and 
the assumptions necessary to complete the enclosed Fee Estimate. 
TASK SERIES 1.0 – General Conditions 
 
Tasks 1.1 through 1.4 
 
• Task Series 1.0 General Conditions has been develo ped to capture overall project administration, 
project management, and quality control costs throughout the duration of the project. 
o Project duration has been estimated at 15 months p er the RFP. 
o Assume attending one (1) on design review meeting per month Assume one (1) budget 
and schedule update per month  
o Assume supplemental progress meetings via phone un less combined with other project 
trips per month as stated above 
 
TASK SERIES 2.0 – Preliminary Design Phase 
 
Task 2.1 – Surveying & Base Mapping  
 
• HDR will perform data collection and field survey as follows: 
o Establish Horizontal and Vertical Control 
o Topographic Survey of roadway centerline, shoulder s, C&G, and other hard surfacing 
features 
o Survey surface features such as utilities (public and private), fences, mailboxes, signs, 
etc. 
o Survey existing utility inverts including photogra ph conditions and measure sizes 
o Property Corners will be recorded based on number of corners able to be found on-site 
during the duration of the data collection and field survey task.  Corners will be found 
using a mag-locator and recorded where discovered 
o Private Utility Locations will be recorded based o n One-Call of Wyoming’s provided field 
markings. 
 Additional coordination with identified utility ow ners is anticipated in order to 
verify what has been field located. 
 Coordination will include post survey mapping revi ew to evaluate significant 
public and private utilities. 
o Subsurface utility exploration is anticipated and will be performed in conjunction with data 
collection efforts. 
o It is assumed that no more than 20 / EA explorator y locations will be required.  This has 
been estimated with City of Cheyenne input (planning on 2/EA per block of project area) 
 
Exhibit A
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  | 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project
Scope of Services – Rev.2 | May 2025
 
2 
 
• Assumptions: 
o Right-of-Way acquisition is NOT anticipated, or wi ll be completed by others, and as such 
legal exhibits are not anticipated 
 
Task 2.2 – Project Kick-off & Conceptual Design  
 
• HDR will attend the scoping meeting with the City to get a good understanding of the project and 
background history on the roadway. 
• 2 - Field visit / on-site investigation – Two peop le will review the site with City Staff  
• Establish Project Limits and estimated project imp act areas for any future cultural resources 
coordination items. 
• Produce typical sections based on existing conditi ons, Cheyenne UDC, and geotechnical 
recommendations 
 
Task 2.3 – Geotechnical Investigation 
 
• HDR has partnered with Terracon to perform Geotech nical Investigation Services.  
o The scope of services from Terracon has been attached for reference.  
o The Geotechnical Report will provide data and alternatives for pavement sections, 
general site soils, groundwater (if encountered), and soil properties to support foundation 
and footing design.   
 
Task 2.4 – Roadway and Intersection Geometrics 
 
• Horizontal Alignment layout will be completed with  City input.  Adjustments to the existing 
alignment are not anticipated.  
o Vertical Alignment will be dictated by ADA complia nce and surface drainage.  
• HDR will evaluate design parameters and identify a reas where improvements cannot be made to 
satisfy roadway geometry as governed by AASHTO Geometric Design of Highways and Streets. 
• Typical sections will be generated for use in publ ic meeting #1 and will be primarily concepts in 
nature at this stage of planning and analysis. 
• HDR will collect input from the public, the City, and others to finalize the preferred alternative for 
the Preliminary Plans Submittal. 
• Additionally, the preferred typical section(s) wil l be used to identify areas where physical site 
constraints will need to be addressed or discussed prior to entering the Final Design Phase. 
 
Task 2.5 – Preliminary Plans (Submittal)  
 
• HDR will provide preliminary design plan and profi le sheets with limited quantities for review by 
City  
o Full quantity take-offs will not be completed duri ng this stage of review  
o Cross Sections will not be completed for this stag e of review  
• Project total quantities will be estimated to deve lop a preliminary cost estimate  
o HDR will follow the American Association of Cost E stimators guidelines during this effort 
• Bid items will be based on Technical Specification s (City of Cheyenne & WYDOT) 
• Preliminary project cost estimate will be provided  at this design review 
o City review time has been estimated to be complete d and returned in 5 working days in 
order to maintain proposed project schedule. 
 
 
 
 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  | 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project
Scope of Services – Rev.2 | May 2025
 
3 
 
 
Task 2.6 – Environmental Resource Review  
 
Task 2.6 has been struck and replaced with Task 4.2 following contract negotiations upon 
selection. 
 
Task 2.7 – Public Involvement (Meeting #1)  
 
• HDR will work with the City of Cheyenne to develop  a public involvement strategy to promote the 
public open house style meeting(s).  Task 2.7 in the Preliminary Design Phase and Task 3.7 in 
the Final Design Phase share the same scope of work, which has been described in its entirety 
below: 
• Public Open House Meeting 1: this will occur early  in the project to announce and discuss goals 
and plans to the public and to gather input on primary design considerations. 
• Public Open House Meeting 2: this will occur AFTER  the submission of ROW & Utility Plans and 
is intended to show the outcomes from previous meeting data collection, alternatives analysis, 
and the preliminary design phase.  
• Two preparation conference calls are anticipated w ith City Engineering Staff; one in advance of 
each of public meeting to solidify content, messaging, and goals for each public meeting 
• The three public open house style meetings 
o 3 – In-Person Meetings 
o Public Meetings are intended to last no longer tha n four (4) hours each and HDR intends 
to utilize one public involvement specialist and two local staff to attend, interface, and 
coordinate with attendees. 
• The deliverable documents stemming from the Public  Meeting(s) are anticipated as follows: 
o Three content documents, one in advance of each pu blic open house meeting, to include 
web text, press releases and news advertisements. 
• Meeting plans and summaries for each public open h ouse meeting. 
• Communication materials for public meetings includ ing:  
o Poster Board Exhibits and Handouts (if in person) 
o 200 double-sided, Color handouts (100 for each mee ting) 
o 12 display boards (6 for each meeting) 
o Printed Comment Cards (if in person) 
o Sign-in sheets and staff nametags 
• HDR will also participate in three (3) additional Stakeholder meetings hosted by the City with 
landowners and affected businesses. 
o This includes a 1 on 1 meeting with the City and e ach business, if desired.  Estimated 
number of meetings is 20 each lasting 1.5 hours with 2 HDR staff. 
• Assumptions: 
o Meeting notifications will be distributed electron ically by the City to be shared and posted 
by stakeholders  
o The City will be responsible for coordinating with  local papers for public notice; HDR will 
provide content. 
o Postage, publication, room rental and refreshments  costs for public involvement activity 
are not included in the fee 
o Web hosting or website construction is not anticip ated 
o The City will secure an appropriate venue for both  public open house meetings 
o If desired, the City will host and maintain a proj ect web page; HDR will provide content 
o If desired, the City will be responsible for secur ing variable message boards for use in 
promoting public meeting 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  | 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project
Scope of Services – Rev.2 | May 2025
 
4 
 
Task 2.8 – Baseline Hydrologic & Hydraulic Analysis & Drainage Impact Study  
• HDR will work within the baseline model that has b een established for the Capitol Basin area to 
understand existing conditions and begin to develop improvements and sizing for new 
infrastructure.  
o Review existing model and understand model logic and linkages.  
o Update based on available information from preceding consultant updates and 
improvements that have been made to the local drainage system.  
o Assess and develop scenarios based upon UDC criter ia & as constructed drawings  
• Model Review and Updates  
o HDR will apply industry standard practices in modelling to perform a comprehensive 
review and update of the existing model.  
o Recommendations will be made for model improvements and implementation.  
• HDR will provide an updated conditions model for t he 18 th  street updates along with the Drainage 
Impact Study for the City’s review. This study will comply with Section 3.2 of the UDC and will 
assess the following: 
o Upstream and downstream impacts  
o Compliance with drainage criteria for storm sewer design.  
o Preliminary Drainage Plan will be provided at this stage.  
o Define minimum project goals 
o Define issues/opportunities/fatal flaws that drive  the concept plan (project goals, utility 
conflicts, grade, ROW/easements, etc). 
o Review the Existing model 
o Update the existing model for recent projects 
o Develop concept design alternative(s) based on inp ut from the City and the results of the 
issues/opportunities/fatal flaw analysis 
 
Task 2.9 – Utility Design & Coordination (BOPU) 
 
• HDR will conduct preliminary utility design for re placement of the existing potable water system & 
water services within the project area, proposed storm sewer interceptor and inlets as determined 
by the hydrologic & hydraulic analysis and for replacement sanitary sewer manholes within the 
project area. 
o The design team will coordinate with Cheyenne BOPU  for design of replacement of water 
mains, fire hydrants & fire hydrant leads and service lines within the ROW of the project 
area. 
o The design team will provide preliminary storm sew er design including storm drain 
interceptor alignment and profile and preliminary placement of inlets. This will be based 
off of the model updates that will be performed in the preceding tasks. Model sizing will 
dictate initial design criteria and will form part of the iterative process for enhancing the 
drainage design for this project. This phase will include coordination with the City’s 
Stormwater Division Manager. Preliminary storm sewer sizing will be back tested using 
the updated model to review system performance.  
o The design team will coordinate with Cheyenne BOPU  for design of replacement sanitary 
sewer manholes within the ROW of the project area.  It is assumed that recent sewer 
CCTV inspection video will be provided to HDR for review and identification of potential 
sewer main defects that should be corrected prior to future CIPP lining planned by 
BOPU.  HDR will provide recommendations for sewer main replacements. 
•  Utility Deliverables include: 
o Storm Drain Alignment and Profile 
o Water Alignment and Profile 
o Sanitary Sewer Manhole Replacement Recommendations  
 
 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  | 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project
Scope of Services – Rev.2 | May 2025
 
5 
 
Task 2.10 – 60% Plans   
 
• HDR will provide 60%Plans as requested in the RFP.   This includes plan and profile sheets with 
limited quantities for review by City  
o Full quantity take-offs will not be completed duri ng this stage of review but shall be 
furthered from the Preliminary Plans Submittal 
o Cross Sections will not be completed for this stag e of review  
• Project total quantities will be estimated to prep are a preliminary cost estimate  
o HDR will follow the American Association of Cost E stimators guidelines during this effort 
• Bid items will be based on Technical Specifications (City of Cheyenne & WYDOT) 
• Preliminary project cost estimate will be provided  at this design review 
o City review time has been estimated to be complete d and returned in 5 working days in 
order to maintain proposed project schedule. 
• It is assumed that intersection geometry and horizontal location of proposed new utilities will be 
largely finalized for this plan review.  Minor adjustments to accommodate ROW limitations and/or 
utility conflicts will be established in the 90% Plans submittal. 
 
TASK SERIES 3.0 – Final Design Phase 
 
Task 3.1 – Traffic Engineering, Lighting, Signalization 
 
• HDR will analyze traffic volumes to provide guidance and recommendations in determining the 
geometry at the intersection. HDR will review available planning studies (i.e., the Connect 2045 
Cheyenne Area Transportation Master Plan) and how they correlate to the prescribed 
configuration stated in the RFP.  
o It is assumed that traffic volumes will be availab le for use and new counts will not be 
required. 
o It is assumed that signal warrants will not be req uired at currently unsignalized 
intersections. 
• HDR will develop traffic signal design, intersecti on, signing, and striping sheets, and quantities. 
The traffic signal design will be for the 18 th  Street and Pioneer Ave. intersection and the 18 th  
Street and Carey Ave. intersection will be designed to City of Cheyenne standards.  
o The signals on Central Ave. and Warren Ave. We ass ume will not be replaced as 
WYDOT has recently upgraded them. 
• The following information will be required to lay out the traffic signal(s) and lighting:  
o Existing topography, subsurface utilities and fina lized intersection geometrics 
o HDR is aware that the City would prefer to reuse t he existing signal elements at the 
intersection.  The signal design will be developed to reuse the existing signal components 
if/where possible. 
• Signing and striping design will include 18 th  Street from Snyder Ave. to House Ave  
o This work will be in accordance with the MUTCD and  the City of Cheyenne Standards 
• HDR will with subconsultant Terracon to perform L- Pile analysis for Signal Footing Design based 
on geotechnical parameters 
 
Task 3.2 a&b – Detailed Underground Utility Design (Water, Sewer, Storm Sewer)  
 
• HDR will evaluate existing utilities and identify potential conflicts with proposed improvements. 
o Public utilities include water, sanitary sewer, and storm sewer 
• HDR will update utility design to address comments  and advance design for replacement of the 
existing potable water system within the project area, proposed storm sewer interceptor and inlets 
and for replacement sanitary sewer manholes within the project area. 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  | 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project
Scope of Services – Rev.2 | May 2025
 
6 
 
o The design team will coordinate with Cheyenne BOPU  for final design of replacement of 
water mains, fire hydrants & fire hydrant leads and service lines within the ROW of the 
project area.   
o The design team will provide final storm sewer des ign including storm drain interceptor 
alignment and profile and final anticipated placement of inlets.  Storm sewer design will 
be completed following the preliminary design effort and the Grading Plans submittal.  A 
reasonably accurate proposed ground surface will be necessary to depict surface 
drainage and design the collection system.  It is assumed that surface drainage will be 
collected in inlets with lateral piping to upgraded storm sewer ‘mains’ OR connected to 
existing storm sewer ‘main’ line piping OR will mimic the existing condition on-site and 
can be discharged into the adjacent Crow Creek drainage basin with appropriate erosion 
and sediment control measures.  
o It is assumed that connection to existing storm se wer will be made without the need for 
additional storm sewer treatment.  
o Inlets will be designed to comply with City of Che yenne design standards 
 
• HDR will provide an updated final conditions model for the 18 th  street updates along with the 
Drainage Impact Study for the City’s review. This study will comply with Section 3.2 of the UDC 
and will assess the following: 
o Upstream and downstream impacts  
o Compliance with drainage criteria for storm sewer design.  
o Development of grading and erosion control permit.  
o Final Drainage Plan will be provided at this stage .  
• The design team will coordinate with Cheyenne BOPU  for final design of replacement sanitary 
sewer manholes within the ROW of the project area.  
• Utility design work for water and sanitary sewer w ill be progressed and communicated with the 
City and the Cheyenne BOPU (with City approval). 
o Assumes no water or sanitary sewer modeling will be required (BOPU will provide) 
 
Task 3.3 – H&H Drainage Model Updates 
 
• HDR will review the available models and create pr oject- speciﬁc SWMM models that analyze the 
proposed 18th Street storm water system, including inlets, laterals, trunk lines and surface ﬂows.  
o This model will be imported into either InfoSWMM o r PCSWMM to facilitate scenario 
management and model updates in accordance with the design process. Both 
InfoSWMM and PCSWMM use the SWMM 5 engine and provides seamless import and 
export functions to go between the two modeling platforms, with the final deliverables to 
be provided in the SWMM 5 format.  
• HDR will update hydraulic & hydrologic model based  on the information gathered in task 2.8. 
o This assumes provision of the existing stormwater model for drainage areas that will 
possibly contribute or interact with the project scope along 18th Street 
• HDR will refine design and model through the progr ession of final design  
o This includes the final model deliverable reflecti ng the final design plans 
 
Task 3.4 – Geotechnical Recommendation(s) Final 
 
• Geotechnical partner Terracon will finalize Geotec hnical Investigation efforts with a final report 
detailing bearing capacities for structural design, surfacing section(s) for use in the intersection & 
roadways, and on-site soil characteristics that will be encountered during construction. 
• HDR will review Terracon’s final deliverable(s) fo r content and applicability  
 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  | 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project
Scope of Services – Rev.2 | May 2025
 
7 
 
Task 3.5 – Preconstruction Structural Assessment  
 
• Task 3.5 has been struck and replaced with Task 4.1 following contract negotiations upon 
selection. 
 
Task 3.6 – Public Involvement (Meeting #2) 
 
• Refer to Task 2.7 
Task 3.7 – 90% Design Plans 
 
• 90% Design Plans will be submitted with accompanyi ng information necessary to finalize design 
review(s) and enter the Final Plan preparation phase 
o It is assumed that legal survey will not be requir ed, and ROW acquisition has been 
completed by the City prior to submission of these plans. 
•  Plans will include drafts for summaries, details of utility adjustments, plan and profile sheets, 
draft set of cross sections, and a 90% set of project special provisions 
• City review time must be completed and returned in  5 working days in order to maintain desired 
project schedule. 
o It is assumed that adjustments to public utilities  will be completed solely with the City of 
Cheyenne and the Cheyenne BOPU 
o No Private Utility Relocations will be designed sp ecifically by HDR.  It is assumed the 
design for these adjustments will be done by the Utility Owner and can take place prior 
to, or during, construction. 
• Project Plan review will be completed between City , BOPU, and HDR.  Other agency review will 
not be required. 
 
Task 3.8 – Public Involvement (Meeting #3) 
 
• Refer to Task 2.7  
Task 3.9 – Final Design (Plans, Specifications, Estimate)  
 
• HDR will provide Final Design plans and Specificat ions for bidding.  
o This includes summary tables for bid items being e ncountered in the work  
o Cross Section Drawings will be provided for pertin ent utility crossing(s) and roadway 
sections  
• Project quantities will be taken from the bid form  to generate an Engineer’s Estimate  
o HDR will follow the American Association of Cost E stimators guidelines during this effort 
• Bid items will be based on Technical Specification s (City of Cheyenne & WYDOT) 
o The City will provide front-end documents for bidd ing (i.e., “front-end” documents such as 
the advertisement, instructions, bid form, agreement, etc.)  
• HDR will provide recommendations to the City on de sired milestones and pertinent data such as 
Contract Time, Liquidated Damages, etc. 
o HDR will provide project Special Provisions to sup plement the Technical Specifications  
o City review time must be completed and returned in  5 working days in order to maintain 
desired project schedule. 
• Hard Copies of Project documents will be provided per the Scope of Work in the RFP 
o Project will go through the HDR QC process for Quality Control prior to bidding.  
o Estimated Total Plan Sheet Count of 80 pages including Title Page, Summaries, P&P 
Sheets, Utility Plans, and Standard Details  
• Cross Sections will be provided on 50-foot interva ls (Est. 20 pages) 
• Final Deliverable will include 
o Stamped / Sealed Plans 
o Project Special Provisions 
o Cost Estimate  
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  | 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project
Scope of Services – Rev.2 | May 2025
 
8 
 
• Quality Assurance/Quality Control Review 
o HDR will review plans, documents, specifications, for accuracy and reasonableness. 
o QA/QC comments, responses, and resolutions for dra wings and special provisions will be 
documented and kept on file. 
o QA/QC Review will be completed by an experienced e mployee with HDR that has had 
limited involvement with the project and can review the project from a fresh perspective  
 
 
Subconsultants 
 
• HDR has partnered with Badger Daylighting, Terracon, and Logan Simpson to provided additional 
services as described herein.  Please refer to proposal(s) from teaming partners for detailed 
scope of services. 
 
TASK SERIES 4.0 – Specialty Services 
 
Task 4.1 – Pre-Construction Structural Existing Condition Assessment 
 
• HDR will perform an existing condition assessment of the buildings along the 18 th  Street Corridor. 
o Existing condition assessment will not evaluate structural competence  
o Condition assessment will be done with two HDR staff, one will be a Wyoming licensed 
Professional Engineer.  
o Effort is anticipated to take approximately 2 weeks of field time followed by 2 weeks of 
documentation and reporting time. 
o Condition assessment will be limited to structure exterior(s) only  
• Final Deliverables will include: 
o Digital Files (photos and/or videos) of existing conditions  
o Technical memorandum/report summarizing existing conditions  
 
Task 4.2 – Cultural Resources Review 
 
• The following tasks outline HDR’s approach to prep aring the project for potential federal funding 
by conducting a resource review that can be utilized in future National Environmental Policy Act 
(NEPA) documentation. While no federal funding is currently secured, this effort aligns reviewed 
data with NEPA process requirements should federal funds be pursued.  
 
• Cultural/Environmental Resource Review Process: HD R proposes a two-step process: 1) 
Resources Overview Report – This document will summarize the environmental conditions within 
the study area and support early decision-making. 2) NEPA Document (if needed) – If federal 
funds are pursued, HDR can coordinate with the federal lead agency to determine the appropriate 
NEPA pathway and prepare the required documentation under an additional scope. 
  
• Study Area and Methodology: HDR will define a stud y area extending 500 feet from the project 
centerline for environmental review and approval. This area will form the basis for desktop and 
field studies, ensuring that findings are adequate for future NEPA compliance. The study area 
review will be documented in a Resources Overview Report to inform project planning and 
potential federal review.  
 
• Resource Categories to be Reviewed:  
o Aquatic Resources and Floodplains: HDR will review  publicly available online resources, 
including the National Wetlands Mapper, National Hydrography Dataset (NHD) maps 
through NREX, and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) floodplain data, to 
determine the presence and extent of water resources and floodplains in the project area. 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  | 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project
Scope of Services – Rev.2 | May 2025
 
9 
 
If any regulated aquatic features are identified, HDR will coordinate with the appropriate 
agencies to confirm jurisdictional status and permitting requirements.   
o Recreation Properties: Section 4(f) and 6(f) prope rties within the study area will be 
identified and documented. No additional coordination is anticipated unless required by 
federal agencies.  
o Cultural Resources:  A Historic Built Environment Survey for the 18th Street Project: HDR 
is providing design and consulting services to the City of Cheyenne for planned 
improvements to 18th Street (Project). In the event the proposed Project is supported 
through a Federal Highways Administration (FHWA) grant, a federal nexus will be 
established and compliance with Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 
1966 (NHPA), as amended, and its implementing regulations at 36 Code of Federal 
Regulations §800, will be required. HDR will provide cultural resource support for NHPA 
compliance as part of its consulting and design services for the Project. Associated tasks 
will include completion of a historic built environment survey and preparation of a Section 
106 determination of eligibility and effects analysis report. The report will include 
recommendations for National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) eligibility for cultural 
resources within the Area of Potential Effects (APE) and management recommendations 
for identified historic properties. The survey report will be conducted in accordance with 
Wyoming State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) standards.  
 Built Environment Survey: HDR will complete an arc hitectural history survey for 
the built environment (buildings, structures, objects) within the proposed APE. It 
is presumed that the APE will consist of the entire extent of 18th Street within the 
study area and all parcels adjacent to 18th Street (one parcel deep on both sides 
of the street) from Snyder Ave. to House Ave. Built environment resources 
encountered during this review will be evaluated for NRHP eligibility by staff 
meeting the SOI Professional Qualification Standards for history or architectural 
history. The review of built environment resources will include a field survey of 
the direct APE, as well as a review of assessor records, historical aerial imagery, 
and historical maps, to identify structures and buildings which are 50 years or 
older.  
 The results of the field survey will be presented in a determination of eligibility 
and effects analysis survey report. The report will be prepared in compliance with 
SHPO guidelines for Class III reports (Format, Guidelines, and Standards for 
Class II and Class III Reports [v. 10/2012]). Forms for cultural resources 
documented during the survey will be submitted via WyoTrack and provided in a 
report appendix.  
o Biological Resources: A desktop survey will be con ducted to assess habitat for federally 
listed threatened and endangered species. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s (USFWS) 
Information for Planning and Consultation (IPaC) tool will be used to generate a species 
list and conduct a determination key analysis as well as a search of the Wyoming Natural 
Diversity Database for Species of Greatest Conservation Need. No species-specific or 
protocol surveys (e.g., for migratory birds, bats, or other special-status species) are 
included in this scope but may be added if required.  
o Hazardous Materials: A desktop survey of publicly available data will be conducted to 
determine the presence or absence of hazardous materials sites such as brownfields, 
underground storage tanks (USTs), and other known contaminated sites. HDR will also 
coordinate with the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality (WDEQ) to identify 
potential environmental concerns specific to the project vicinity.  
o Economic Resources: A desktop review of publicly a vailable socioeconomic data will be 
conducted to assess potential impacts on local businesses and overall community 
cohesion. HDR will evaluate potential disruptions to commercial activity, access to 
services, and neighborhood connectivity.  
• Deliverables  
o Draft and final Resources Overview Report, includi ng:  
o GIS-generated study area map  
o WY SHPO WyoTrack record search results  
o USFWS IPaC species list  
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  | 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project
Scope of Services – Rev.2 | May 2025
 
10  
 
o Agency correspondence and summary  
• HDR Resources Overview Assumptions  
o The study area will not exceed the initially defin ed limits.  
o Archival research (e.g., General Land Office maps,  historical maps, Sanborn Fire 
Insurance maps, assessor records) is not included in this scope.  
o HDR will draft up to three agency coordination let ters and summarize responses from 
those agencies in the Resources Overview Report.  
o No aquatic resources (wetlands or Waters of the U. S.) are present in the project area, so 
a 404 Permit Application is not required.  
o The Resources Overview Report will summarize the f indings but will not constitute a 
NEPA decision.  
o If federal funding is acquired, the appropriate cl ass of NEPA documentation will be 
determined under a separate scope amendment.  
o Changes to the general project alignment may neces sitate an amendment to this scope 
of services.  
o HDR Cultural Resources Assumptions  
o HDR will record and evaluate built environment res ources which are 50 years or older.  
o HDR assumes that any right-of-way (ROW) acquisitio ns requiring survey will be identified 
prior to the commencement of field surveys.  
o HDR assumes right-of-entry to all survey areas wil l be provided prior to the start of 
fieldwork.  
o HDR assumes no significant delays after mobilizati on due to weather or activities beyond 
the control of HDR. In the event of such delays labor will be invoiced as time-and-
materials and expenses will be invoiced as accrued.  
o Should the project have an adverse effect on NRHP- eligible or listed structures, 
buildings, objects, or historic districts identified during the survey, HDR may require 
additional funding for consultation with WYDOT and SHPO to determine and conduct 
appropriate mitigation measures.  
o HDR assumes one review of each of the draft, draft  final, and final cultural resource 
report and site forms will be conducted by WYDOT prior to submittal to SHPO.   
o HDR will not record or consider potential adverse effects to property types listed as 
defined non-sites within the SHPO guidelines (Resource Definitions and Recording 
Guidelines [v. 9/2012]).  
o HDR assumes only parcels which directly overlap th e APE will require survey and that full 
surveys of entire historic districts will not be required.  
o HDR anticipates assessing effects to two NRHP-list ed historic districts, and NRHP 
evaluation and effects analysis for up to 40 privately owned parcels with buildings 50 
years of age or older that overlap the APE and one linear railroad segment that crosses 
the APE.    
o Up to 4 virtual meetings with the SHPO and/or Chey enne Historic Preservation Board 
 
Task 4.3 – Landscaping / Streetscaping 
 
• HDR has partnered with Logan Simpson to perform la ndscape architecture services.  
o The scope of services from Logan Simpson has been attached for reference. 
 
Task 4.4 – Grant Strategy Assistance 
 
• HDR will support the City of Cheyenne in identifyi ng potential available grant funding 
opportunities for construction. 
o This includes a workshop with 2 HDR staff and the City to discuss what types of funding 
they are interested in. 
o The resulting document(s) from the Grant Strategy Assistance task will be a technical 
memorandum or database of available grant opportunities, agency(ies) involved, and 
deadlines to submit. 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming  | 18 th  Street Reconstruction Project
Scope of Services – Rev.2 | May 2025
 
11  
 
o HDR has NOT included any time to help prepare or submit a grant for the City.  Should 
this be desired additional discussion about additional scope will be necessary. 
  
Task 4.5 – Material Management Plan  
 
• Teaming partner Terracon will finalize leverage pa st knowledge of existing PCE Plume combined 
with field efforts to create a “materials management plan”.   See detailed proposal from Terracon 
attached herein. 
• HDR will review Terracon’s final deliverable(s) fo r content and applicability  
o This includes HDR technical experts in hazardous materials handling to review and 
comment on technical approach during report & specification development. 
 
Task 4.6 – BNSF Railroad Coordination 
• HDR will prepare for and participate in a scoping and routing meeting with the City and the BNSF 
Railroad.   
o This includes a potential storm interceptor crossing of the existing railroad tracks at Reed 
Avenue as well as a conceptual discussion about routing south along Reed Avenue. 
 This assumes that any agreements or reimbursements required by the railroad 
will be initiated by the City OR can be combined with existing efforts on the Reed 
Avenue Rail Corridor Project. 
o HDR will prepare two exhibits for the meeting.  This includes meeting attendance by 
three HDR staff.  Meeting may be held virtually or in person. 
• It is assumed that no railroad insurance or right of entry agreements will be prepared or provided 
by HDR. 
 
 
Proposed Work Sequence and Project Schedule 
 
See Estimated Project Schedule(s) from proposal (enclosed) 
 
 
Proposed Fee   
 
See Attached Detailed Fee Estimate 
13 
City of Cheyenne  |  RFP 6-25 - 18th Street Reconstruction Project
F. Schedule
The timeline below identifies the schedule items listed in the RFP, and HDR’s corresponding completion dates, based on 
the scope of work we provided.
2025 2026
TASK DURATION May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug
Notice-To-Proceed 1 Day
Project Kick-Off 1 Week
Data Collection 1 Month
Subsurface Utility Exploration 2 Weeks
Pre-Construction Structural Evaluation  
(Optional) 2 Weeks
Preliminary Design 3 Months
Stakeholder Coordination (BOPU, DDA, PD, 
Fire, Etc.) 2 Weeks
Preliminary Plans 1 Day
Subsurface Utility Exploration 1 Week
Geotechnical Report 1 Day
H&H Model Validation 1 Month
Public Meeting #1 1 Day
Includes Owner & Agency Coordination 2 Weeks 
Prior
Final Design 6 Months
H&H Model Updates & Design Outputs 2 Months
Stakeholder Coordination  
(BOPU, DDA, PD, Fire, Etc.) 2 Weeks
60% Plans 1 Day
Public Meeting #2 1 Day
Drainage Impact Study 1 Month
90% Plans 2 Months
Agency Coordination (NEPA Compliance) 1 Month
Public Meeting #3 1 Day
Final Plans (PS&E) 1 Day
LEGEND: PM Updates Public Meeting             Key DatesMU K
U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U
M
M
M
K
K
K
K
  
Project: 18th Street Reconstruction Project
Subject: Compensation Summary
Task: Contracting
Computed by: HDR Cheyenne Date:5/30/2025
Workbook: Comp.Sched.
Page: 1 of 1
Task Labor Expenses Total
Task 1.0 General Conditions 95,260.00 $         928.00 $          96,188.00 $                     
Task 2.0 Preliminary Design 427,902.50 $       25,366.00 $    453,268.50 $                  
Task 3.0 Final Design 289,057.50 $       2,693.00 $       291,750.50 $                  
Task 4.0 Specialty Services 255,688.00 $       3,667.00 $       259,355.00 $                  
Subtotals 1,067,908.00 $    32,654.00 $    
1,100,562.00$          
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES - DESIGN
Design Total Not-to-Exceed
TOTAL PROJECT (Including Subconsultants) 1,100,562.00 $                              
https://hdrinc-my.sharepoint.com/personal/tomattso_hdrinc_com/Documents/01_PM TOOLS/Fee(s)/18th_St_Fee_Negotiated_Final.xlsx
Level of Effort and Fee Estimate 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming 
18th Street Reconstruction Project 
Subconsultant 
HDR Labor Meal HDR Total
Work Task Total Mileage Lodging Per Diem Copies Mileage GPS Project 
M.Oakley D.Hamilton T.Mattson B.Collamer L. Edwards L. M cQueen T.Cook T. Yerdon J. Christopherson B. Noble J. St arck J.Hellman J. Coronado K.Sisson R.J. DeGaugh 
G. 
Anderson N. Fraser J.Oakley 
D. 
Humphries J.D. Mion A. Mueller H.Spores A. Titus E. Schr amm C. Heer Mile Night $/Day Mile Hour 
Contract Billing Rate 260.00 $        280.00 $        195.00 $          165.00 $              125.00 $            210.00 $          135.00 $            210.00 $       210.00 $                    165.00 $           1 95.00 $           145.00 $       225.00 $           120.00 $           125.00 $           170.00 $     170.0 0 $             145.00 $       145.00 $       195.00 $                150.00 $          225.00 $       130.0 0 $         110.00 $       85.00 $       0.70 $       1 50.00 $       68.00 $         1.00 $            0.75 $       50.00 $          
1.0 General Conditions 12 18 270 0 0 16 0 16 30 78 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 48 28 $95,260 600 0 6 100 0 0 $928 $96,188 
1.1 Project Management 10 140 16 40 4 8 8 $42,320.00 100 100 170.00 $          
1.2 Quality Control 1 16 10 16 8 $11,370.00 - $                 
1.3 Budget & Schedule Updates 1 2 40 40 20 $14,720.00 - $                 
1.4 Progress Meetings 80 30 30 $26,850.00 500 6 758.00 $          
$0.00 - $                 
2.0 Preliminary Design 0 0 86 132 180 22 0 8 108 178 92 32 0 40 478 200 360 262 292 0 0 0 44 0 0 $387,780 $40,123 $1,372 $7,800 $3,604 $465 $1,875 $10,000 $25,366 $453,269 
2.1 Surveying, Base Mapping, S.U.E. 4 8 12 12 8 24 200 360 10 0 40 $125,600.00 $15,263 1250 50 50 75 2500 200 23,725.00 $     
2.2 Project Kick-off & Conceptual Design 8 24 40 2 4 8 8 32 3 2 4 $23,820.00 - $                 
2.3 Geotechnical Investigation 4 16 4 $4,480.00 $24,860 - $                 
2.4 Roadway & Intersection Geometrics 4 40 80 $17,380.00 - $                 
2.5 Preliminary Plans (Submittal) 10 24 40 4 10 16 60 80 16 $37,910.00 60 150 192.00 $          
2.7 Public Involvement (Meeting #1) 44 34 4 2 40 2 2 40 $25,900.00 500 2 2 200 1,236.00 $       
2.8 Baseline Hydraulics & Hydrology Analysis / Drainage Impact Study 8 90 120 24 120 $58,860.00 - $                 
2.9 Utility Design & Coordination (BOPU) 8 16 16 200 160 $55,520.00 10 10.00 $             
2.10 60% Plans (Submittal) 4 2 8 16 16 40 40 80 40 $38,310.00 150 1 30 203.00 $          
3.0 Final Design 0 8 68 124 322 122 60 8 82 56 52 8 0 0 226 40 40 294 2 04 0 0 0 48 0 0 $269,670 $19,388 1450 4 11 330 0 0 $2,693 $291,751 
3.1 Traffic Engineering, Lighting, Signalization 120 6 0 12 16 40 40 24 $54,720.00 300 6 618.00 $          
3.2aDetailed Underground Utility Design (Water, Sewer, BOPU) 12 8 20 2 32 8 40 $19,620.00 $8,388 - $                 
3.2bDetailed Underground Utility Design (Storm) 4 16 2 0 2 2 8 8 32 8 40 $20,600.00 - $                 
3.3 H&H Drainage Model Updates 8 8 72 8 80 4 $30,100.00 - $                 
3.4 Geotechnical Recommendations (Final) 16 40 80 $19,720.00 $11,000 - $                 
3.6 Public Involvement (Meeting #2) 2 2 2 2 2 24 $4,710.00 500 2 2 30 816.00 $          
3.7 90% Plans (Submittal) 16 16 120 6 4 4 200 40 $57,980.00 150 1 173.00 $          
3.8 Public Involvement (Meeting #3) 2 2 2 2 4 24 $4,920.00 100 100.00 $          
3.9 Final Design Plans, Specifications, Quantities, Cost Est. 8 8 40 80 40 80 60 80 $57,300.00 500 2 2 200 986.00 $          
4.0 Specialty Services 18 16 48 28 44 0 0 0 8 8 0 14 100 40 60 0 0 60 8 84 40 24 0 0 0 $106,110 $149,578 680 12 12 500 100 0 $3,667 $259,355 
4.1 Pre-Construction Structural Existing Condition Assessment 8 10 100 60 $33,010.00 240 10 10 150 2,498.00 $       
4.2 Cultural Resources Review 4 40 20 84 40 $30,860.00 60 250 292.00 $          
4.3 Landscaping/Streetscaping (Logan Simpson) 8 24 40 40 $16,320.00 $142,978 80 56.00 $             
4.4 Grant Strategy Assistance 16 16 8 $10,200.00 50 100 125.00 $          
4.5 Material Management Plan (Haz. Mat.) 8 4 24 $7,460.00 $6,600 150 2 2 541.00 $          
4.6 BNSF Railroad Coordination 2 12 4 8 8 4 8 $8,260.00 150 50 155.00 $          
$0.00 - $                 
Total Labor Hours per Team Member 30 42 472 284 546 160 60 32 228 320 144 54 100 80 764 240 400 616 504 84 40 28 92 48 28 858, 820 209,088 32,654 
Total Labor Charges per Team Member 7,800 $               11,760 $             92,040 $               46,860 $                    68,250 $                 33,600 $                8,100 $                   6,720 $             47,880 $                          52,800 $                28,080 $                7,830 $              22,500 $                 9,600 $                  95,500 $                 40,800 $         68,000 $                  89,320 $           73,080 $            16,380 $                      6,000 $                6, 300 $              11,960 $              5,280 $              2,380 $           
1,100,562 $               
CAD 
Roadway - 
Cadd 4 
Land 
Surveyor 4 
Structural 
Evaluation 
Drainage Eng. - 
Eng 4 
H&H Lead - Eng 7 H&H QC - 
Eng 7 GIS 4 
Traffic & 
Lighting - Eng 
7
Traffic Eng. - 
Eng 2 Utility Design 
Lead - Eng 6 RES/ROW 1 
Subconsultant 
Total Project 
Project 
Accountant 
Strategic 
Comm. 2 
CAD Utilities 
- Cadd 4 
Project Team 
Total Direct 
Expenses 
Expenses 
Prj. Principal PM 2 
Roadway 
Design Lead - 
Eng 4 
Engineering 
Tech. - Eng 1 
Land Surveyor 
4
Environmental 
PM - 5 
Cultural 
Resources - 
Env 3 
Haz. 
Materials - 
Env 7 QA/QC 
Civil Designer - 
Eng 1 
Admin 
Assistant 
 
 
 
HDR Engineering 
2025 Hourly Billing Rates 
Billing Title Billing 
Rate 
 Billing Title Billing 
Rate 
Managing Principal 245  Right of Way 4 195 
Project Manager 5 235  Right of Way 3 175 
Project Manager 4 225  Right of Way 2 155 
Project Manager 3 210  Right of Way 1 120 
Project Manager 2 195  Right of Way Coordinator  105 
Project Manager 1 180  Environmental/Hydrologist/Geologist 6 210 
Engineer 9 235  Environmental/Hydrologist/Geologist 5 195 
Engineer 8 225  Environmental/Hydrologist/Geologist 4 170 
Engineer 7 210  Environmental/Hydrologist/Geologist 3 150 
Engineer 6 195  Environmental/Hydrologist/Geologist 2 130 
Engineer 5 180  Environmental/Hydrologist/Geologist 1 110 
Engineer 4 165  Surveyor 5 190 
Engineer 3 150  Surveyor 4 170 
Engineer 2 135  Surveyor 3 150 
Engineer 1 125  Surveyor 2 130 
System Integrator 4 195  Surveyor 1 110 
System Integrator 3 175  Construction Manager 5 245 
System Integrator 2 155  Construction Manager 4 235 
System Integrator 1 125  Construction Manager 3 215 
CADD/GIS Technician 6 185  Construction Manager 2 205 
CADD/GIS Technician 5 165  Construction Manager 1 185 
CADD/GIS Technician 4 145  Strategic Comm/Graphic Designer 4 165 
CADD/GIS Technician 3 125  Strategic Comm/Graphic Designer 3 145 
CADD/GIS Technician 2 115  Strategic Comm/Graphic Designer 2 130 
CADD/GIS Technician 1 105  Strategic Comm/Graphic Designer 1 105 
Technician 5 170  Project Controller 120 
Technician 4 150  Project Accountant 110 
Technician 3 135  Project Assistant 105 
Technician 2 115  Admin Assistant 85 
Technician 1 105    
 
Rates shall be adjusted annually. HDR may hire contract workers that will be assigned a billing rate 
based on this rate sheet. HDR has technical experts in various geographic locations that may be utilized 
based on specific project need. This specialized expertise will be billed at the below rates.  
 
Billing Title Billing Rate 
Technical Expert 8 355 
Technical Expert 7 335 
Technical Expert 6 315 
Technical Expert 5 305 
Technical Expert 4 285 
Technical Expert 3 265 
Technical Expert 2 245 
Technical Expert 1 225 
 
 
 
 
REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES 
Reimbursable Expense shall mean actual expenses incurred for travel, meals, subconsultants, shipping, 
and other incurred expense. If negotiated with Ow ner in the contract, HDR will add an agreed to 
percentage mark-up to subconsultant invoices to cover administrative expenses and vicarious liability. 
Specialty equipment charges apply to specific equipment used on the project. 
 
Expense Rate 
Traffic Counting Equipment $120.00 per hour 
Survey/GPS Equipment $50.00 per hour 
Robotic Total Station $50.00 per hour 
Side-by-Side Utility Vehicle $25.00 per hour 
Handheld GPS $20.00 per hour 
Drone $275.00 per day 
HDR Vehicle Mileage $0.75 per mile 
Personal Vehicle Mileage IRS rate per mile 
Printing (in-house)   
B&W 8.5x11 $0.0857 each 
Color 8.5x11 $0.1801 each 
B&W 11x17 $0.1714 each 
Color 11x17 $0.3602 each 
Plots Bond $0.55 per sq. ft. 
 
 
 
213 LINDEN STREET, SUITE 300 | FORT COLLINS, COLORADO 80524 | 970.449.4100 | WWW.LOGANSIMPSON.COM  
 
May 16, 2025 
 
Todd Mattson 
PE 
HDR Inc. 
 
Dear Todd,  
We are excited to submit this proposal for the Cheyenne 18th St. Streetscape project. 
Task 1. Project Startup and Pre-design 
We will begin with a focused Kick-off Meeting to confirm the scope, define deliverables, establish roles and 
responsibilities, and set clear communication standards. This will ensure alignment between all stakeholders from the 
outset. Additionally, we will conduct an in-depth Work Session and Site Visit to review the project boundary and collect 
field data and develop character base maps. 
Task 2.  Concept/ Schematic Design 
Task 2 will begin the design process with our team developing 3 concepts with key areas shown in plan and 3D views with 
building massing for context. We will have an order of magnitude opinion of probable costs for concept evaluation and 
discussion with key stakeholders for the first engagement meeting. Completion of schematic design will include a 
preferred plan developed in AutoCAD. 
Task 3.  Design Development 
Design development will include CAD drawings including all areas within the limit of work to a 60% complete 
construction document level.  Specifications will be included in outline form, with an opinion of probable cost. 
Task 4.  Construction Documentation 90% and 100%  
Construction documents will include both 90% coordination documents, and final 100% Construction documents. Both 
deliverable milestones will include specifications and opinion of probable costs. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Jana McKenzie, Principal/Contract Manager Steve Sigler, Senior Landscape Architect/Project Manager  
E:  jmckenzie@logansimpson.com   E: ssigler@logansimpson.com 
LOGAN SIMPSON SUBMITTAL  1 
Cheyenne 18th Street Streetscape  
SCOPE OF WORK   
 
TASK 1. PROJECT STARTUP AND PRE-DESIGN Our design team will Facilitate a project kick-off 
meeting to confirm the scope, outline deliverables, establish roles and responsibilities, and set the project timeline. 
Also establish standards for communication and documentation. 
• On-site meeting and project start up 
• Existing conditions and analysis  
• Opportunities and constraints 
• Preliminary program, amenities and precedent imagery for styles and materials  
• Stakeholder engagement meeting #1 
• Project coordination and management 
 
TASK 2.  CONCEPT/ SCHEMATIC DESIGN  
• Develop Preliminary Concepts (3) 
• Illustrative Plans and 3d Graphics 
• Preliminary Opinion of Probable Cost 
• Stakeholder engagement #2 
• Review meeting with City 
• Develop Preferred Plan 
• Irrigation consultant- 
• QA/QC and Submittal Assembly 
• Project Management and Coordination 
 
TASK 3.  DESIGN DEVELOPMENT 
 
• Existing Conditions, Demolition, Layout/Materials, Landscape Plans  
• Site Details 
• Irrigation Design Development 
• Stakeholder engagement #3 
• Specifications-Outline 
• Preliminary Opinion of Probable Cost  
• QA/QC and Submittal Assembly 
• Project Management and Coordination 
 
 
TASK 4.  CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTATION 90% AND 100% 
 
• Existing Conditions, Demolition, Layout/Materials, Landscape plans  
• Site Details 
• Irrigation Construction Documents 
• Specifications 
• Interim and Final Opinion of Probable Cost  
• QA/QC and Submittal Assembly 
• Project Management and Coordination 
Logan Simpson Design Inc.
Project Name: Cheyenne 18th St. 
Streetscape  
LS # 
Date:5-12-2025
PM:Steve Sigler
Math check done by:
 
Landscape 
Architect, 
Sr.
Landscape 
Architect, 
Associate
Landscape 
Designer
GIS 
Analyst Subtotal Subtotal Mileage Subtotal Total Labor
Tasks Hours Labor 0.700      Expense & Expenses
Task 1. Project Startup and Pre-Design
On-site meeting and project start up 6 6 12 1,890$                 180 126$        2,016$            
Existing conditions and analysis 2 8 8 8 26 3,127$                 1,750$     4,877$            
Opportunities and constraints 2 8 8 18 2,340$                 -$             2,340$            
Preliminary program, amenities and 
precedent imagery for styles and materials 4 16 20 2,360 $                 - $             2,360$            
Stakeholder engagement meeting #1 4 8 12 1,520$                 -$             1,520$            
Project coordination and management 4 4 680$                    -$             680$               
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
Subtotal Task 1 Labor 22 22 40 8 92 11,917$               180 1,876$     13,793$          
Task 2.  Concept/ Schematic Design
Develop Preliminary Concepts (3) 24 32 32 16 104 13,653$               -$             13,653$          
Illustrative Plans and 3d Graphics 8 40 8 56 6,347$                 -$             6,347$            
Preliminary Opinion of Probable Cost 8 8 16 2,200$                 -$             2,200$            
Stakeholder engagement #2 8 8 16 2,200$                 -$             2,200$            
Review meeting with City 8 8 16 2,200$                 -$             2,200$            
Develop Preferred Plan 24 32 32 88 12,080$               -$             12,080$          
Irrigation allowance 0 -$                         3,500$     3,500$            
QA/QC and Submittal Assembly 4 4 8 1,100$                 -$             1,100$            
Project Management and  Coordination 8 8 1,360$                 -$             1,360$            
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
Subtotal Task 2 Labor 68 32 100 8 208 27,487$               0 3,500$     30,987$          
Task 3.  Design Development
Existing Conditions, Demolition, 
Layout/Materials,Landscape plans 8 32 32 8 80 10,146 $               - $             10,146$          
Site Details 4 32 32 68 8,680$                 -$             8,680$            
Irrigation allowance 0 -$                         5,000$     5,000$            
Stakeholder engagement #3 8 8 16 2,200$                 -$             2,200$            
Specifications-Outline 1 1 170$                    -$             170$               
Preliminary Opinion of Probable Cost 2 8 8 18 2,340$                 -$             2,340$            
QA/QC and Submittal Assembly 4 4 8 1,260$                 -$             1,260$            
Project Management and  Coordination 12 12 2,040$                 -$             2,040$            
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
Subtotal Task 4 Labor 39 76 80 8 203 26,836$               0 5,000$     31,836$          
Task 4.  Construction Documentation 
90% and 100%
Existing Conditions, Demolition, 
Layout/Materials, Grading 32 64 64 8 168 22,227 $               - $             22,227$          
Site Details 8 24 32 64 8,200$                 -$             8,200$            
Irrigation allowance 0 -$                         15,000$   15,000$          
Specifications 10 2 12 1,910$                 -$             1,910$            
Opinion of Probable Cost 8 8 16 2,200$                 -$             2,200$            
QA/QC and Submittal Assembly 4 4 8 1,100$                 -$             1,100$            
Project Management and  Coordination 16 16 2,720$                 -$             2,720$            
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
0 -$                         -$             -$                    
Subtotal Task 5 Labor 78 88 110 8 284 38,357$               0 15,000$   53,357$          
Subtotal Labor Hours 207 218 330 32 787 104,597$             180 25,376$   129,973$        
Subtotal Labor Costs $35,190 $31,610 $34,650 $3,147 787 104,597$             126$       25,376$   129,973$        
Salary Rate $170.00 145.00$       105.00$      98.33$      
 Labor 104,597$             
Expenses+ Irrigation 25,376$               
Total Fee 129,973$             
Direct Expenses
Page 1 of 1
Badger Hydrovac Service Proposal
United States
Prepared By:
 
Robert Bruce 
 
Email:
 
rbruce@badgerinc.com
 
Phone:
 
307-370-0990 
 
Date:
 
03/19/2025 
 
Estimate Number:
 
CPQ-152733v1 
 
Project Name:
 
18th street potholing- Cheyenne 
 
   
Estimate
 
 
Badger Daylighting Corp
CHEYENNE WY CORP 
208 CR 128A 
Cheyenne, WY  82007
"An equal opportunity employer"
 
 
Date
 
03/19/2025 
 
Reference
 
CPQ-152733 
 
Prepared By
 
Robert Bruce 
 
Customer Information 
Company  HDR INC    Contact Name  Todd Mattson  
Contact Phone #  +1 (307) 660-7265   Email 
Todd.e.mattson@hdrinc.com 
 
Billing Address  1917 S 6TH STR   Title 
PM 
 
Billing City/State 
OMAHA NE 68106
 
Account Number  30590  
Service Address  W 18th St   Cheyenne WY 82001  
Scope Of Work 
Hydrovac will be charged at a by the hour basis. From port to port. This is a time and material rate sheet only. Below is an example of a 9 hour day 
 
Service Item  Item Description  Unit Cost  UOM  Quantity  Amount 
BADGER HYDROVAC WITH OPERATOR      $305.00  HR   8.0  $2,440.00  
BADGER HYDROVAC WITH OPERATOR
OVERTIME  
   $335.00  HR   1.0  $335.00  
DISPOSITION      $220.00  EA   1.0  $220.00  
CONSUMABLE MATERIALS      $75.00  EA   1.0  $75.00  
FLUCTUATING FUEL RECOVERY      $272.05  EA   1.0  $272.05  
SUPPL Y WATER   As needed if not
provided onsite  
$125.00  EA   1.0  $125.00  
ADDITIONAL SERVICE - OTHER   Coring per hole   $275.00  EA   1.0  $275.00  
           
Total
 
 
$3,742.05  
 
This proposal contains the budgetary estimate to complete the work as described above under the heading "Scope of Work". If any part of the work
varies from that described in Scope of Work, or if unexpected digging conditions are encountered (eg rocks, rubble, roots, etc...), then additional charges
shall apply. All work will be done on a time and material basis. All work will be done in accordance with the terms and conditions contained in Badger
Daylighting Corp.'s standard terms and conditions (USA) attached hereto. 
 
 
Customer (Company) 
_______________
 
PO #: 
_______________
 
Name (Please Print) 
_______________
 
Title: 
_______________
 
Signature 
_______________
 
Date: 
_______________
 
 
I am authorized to bind the Company 
   
 
www.badgerinc.com
 
Page 2 of 7 
 

















