Memorandum Of Understanding Between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority 
Page 1 of 9 
 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
BETWEEN THE CITY OF CHEYENNE AND THE  
CHEYENNE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 
 
 This Agreement is  by and between the City of Cheyenne (“City”), a Wyoming 
municipality, whose legal address is 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 , and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority (“DDA”) located at  2101 O’Neil Avenue , 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001, and is entered into and becomes effective on the date of the last 
signature affixed hereto. 
WITNESSETH: 
WHEREAS, the D owntown Development Authority (“DDA”)  was created pursuant to 
Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-201 et. seq. and City Ordinance #2804. 
WHEREAS, the Downtown Development District (the “District”) is currently comprised 
of multiple properties within the downtown area and the boundaries are specifically described in 
Section 2.76.040  (Designation of downtown development district ) of the Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming. In accordance with Wyoming Statute, these boundaries may be modified 
from time to time.   
WHEREAS, the powers and duties of the DDA are described in Section 2.76.050 (Powers 
and duties) of the Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming , which powers are vested in a board 
of directors (“DDA Board”); 
WHEREAS, Section 2.76.060 (Professional and administrative support ) of the Code of 
the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming , establishes a framework for cooperation between the City and 
Memorandum Of Understanding Between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority 
Page 2 of 9 
the DDA Board, including support arrangements, establishment of a work program, and periodic 
financial reporting; 
WHEREAS, the City and DDA Board support the continued redevelopment of the District 
and the City wishes to continue to provide the DDA Board with professional and administrative 
assistance; and 
 WHEREAS, this Agreement is intended to specify obligations of both parties. 
NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed by both the City and the DDA:   
1. Purpose.  The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the terms and conditions 
agreed to by the parties for the City to provide professional and administrative services to support 
the goals and initiatives of the DDA. 
 2. Term.  In accordance with Section 2.76.060(B) of the Code of the City of 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, this Agreement is effective upon the last signature affixed hereto and up to 
and until June 30, 2026, unless terminated by either party as set forth in section 6(l) below prior to 
the termination date. 
 3. Both Parties.  Each Party shall: 
a. Implement the mission and goals of the DDA Board as provided in 
Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-201 et seq., necessary to foster the redevelopment of the District. 
b. Cooperatively take part in the formulation and delivery o n the goals 
established by the DDA Board. 
c. Contribute information, financial support, and other resources as may be 
necessary and available, including assistance in obtaining grants and other support essential 
to carry out the work of the DDA. 
Memorandum Of Understanding Between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority 
Page 3 of 9 
d. Work together to support the vitality and success of the District. 
4. City of Cheyenne.  The City of Cheyenne shall: 
a. Through the City Planning and Development Department, support the DDA 
by providing personnel assistance, without directing day -to-day operations or dictating 
DDA programs. 
i. The DDA Board shall hire employees, including the DDA 
Administrator (“DDA Staff”), to implement the DDA Board’s vision as set in 
adopted plans. DDA Staff shall receive City employee benefits and follow City 
personnel rules. The DDA Administrator is designated as the primary DDA Board 
contact. No City personnel or DDA Staff shall be considered the Board’s Executive 
Director under Wyo. Stat. § 15 -9-207. In the event a DDA Staff member is found 
to be in violation of any personnel rules and regulations of the City, the DDA 
Administrator or another City representative shall promptly notify the DDA Board 
City Council President of such concern(s). 
ii. DDA Staff shall perform professional and administrative duties as 
defined by Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-201 et. seq., City Ordinance #2804, and DDA Board 
bylaws in accordance with direction set by the DDA Board. Such professional and 
administrative duties shall be performed for the purpose of implementing the goals 
and priorities set forth in adopted plans and approved programs for the District . 
DDA Staff shall act under the authority of the DDA Board and not under the 
direction of the City.  
Memorandum Of Understanding Between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority 
Page 4 of 9 
iii. Subject to the supervision of the DDA Board, DDA Staff shall be 
responsible for the day -to-day transactional duties and broader financial 
management responsibilities of DDA funds. These responsibilities include, but are 
not limited to, compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(GAAP); processing accounts receivable invoices  and remitting payments to 
vendors, contractors and other parties ; processing deposits; reconciling all DDA 
accounts; preparing and filing required tax documents; developing and monitoring 
budgets; filing State of Wyoming mandated financial reports and documents; and 
preparing monthly DDA Board financial report s. Additionally, DDA staff shall 
maintain all financial records and coordinate external audits. 
iv. The City Treasurer’s Department shall serve in an advisory capacity, 
limited to reviewing bank reconciliations, reviewing monthly financial reports, and 
completing journal entries as necessary. The City Treasurer shall not be responsible 
for the day-to-day financial operations of the DDA but will provide oversight and 
guidance as needed to ensure proper financial practices are maintained. 
v. Other City departments may coordinate to support downtown 
development without controlling DDA staff or programs. 
5. DDA Board Responsibilities.  The DDA Board shall: 
a. Participate in interviewing potential DDA Staff and consult with the City 
Human Resources Department on potential termination of any employee.  Participation 
may include establishing interview committees or other arrangements but shall not be 
Memorandum Of Understanding Between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority 
Page 5 of 9 
construed as to require DDA Board consideration of personnel actions at a meeting of the 
DDA Board. 
b. Direct DDA Staff so that the tasks needed to accomplish the work of the 
DDA Board can be carried out as efficiently and as effectively as possible. 
c. Work with DDA Staff to identify and prioritize the goals of the DDA Board 
and develop both short and long-term plans to implement those goals. 
d. Account for all DDA Board financial records, archives, by-laws, etc.   
6. General Provisions.  
 a. Amendments.  Any changes, modifications, revisions, or amendments to 
this Agreement which are mutually agreed upon by the parties to this Agreement shall be 
incorporated by written instrument, executed and signed by all parties to this Agreement. 
b. Assignment.  No party may assign or transfer the responsibilities or 
agreements made herein without the prior written consent of the non -assigning parties, 
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
c. Applicable Law.  The construction, interpretation, and enforcement of this 
Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Wyoming.  The courts of the State 
of Wyoming shall have jurisdiction over this Agreement and the parties, and the venue 
shall be in the First Judicial District, Laramie County, Wyoming. 
d. Compliance with Laws .  The parties shall keep informed of and comply 
with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations in the performance of this 
Agreement. 
Memorandum Of Understanding Between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority 
Page 6 of 9 
e. Indemnification.  Each party to this Agreement assumes the risk of any 
liability arising from its own conduct.  Each party agrees that it will be responsible for any 
loss, claim, damages, or demands resulting from its negligence and the negligence of its 
employees and agents.  Neither party agrees to insure, defend, or indemnify the other. 
f. Nondiscrimination.  The parties shall comply with the Civil Rights Act of 
1964, the Wyoming Fair Employment Practices Act, Wyo. Stat. § 27 -9-105, et seq., the 
Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 12101, et seq., and the 
Age Discrimination Act of 1975 and any properly promulgated rules and regulations 
thereto, and shall not discriminate against any individual on the grounds of age, sex, creed, 
color, race, religion, national origin, ancestry, pregnancy, or quali fying disability i n 
connection with the performance under this Agreement. 
g. Governmental Immunity.  The City does not waive governmental immunity 
by entering into this  Agreement and specifically retains all immunities and defenses 
available to it as a governmental entity pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 1 -39-101, et seq., and all 
other applicable laws.  Designation of venue, choice of law, enforcement actions, and 
similar provisions should not be construed as a waiver of governmental immunity. 
h. Third-Party Beneficiary Rights.  The parties do not intend to create in any 
other individual or entity, the status of third-party beneficiary and this Agreement shall not 
be construed so as to create such status. The rights, duties, and obligations contained in this 
Agreement shall operate only between the parties to this Agreement and shall inure solely 
to the benefit of the parties to this Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement are 
intended only to assist the parties in determining and performing their obligations under 
Memorandum Of Understanding Between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority 
Page 7 of 9 
this Agreement. The parties to this Agreement intend and expressly agree that only parties 
signatory to this Agreement shall have any legal or equitable right to seek to enforce this 
Agreement, to seek any remedy arising out of a party’s performance or failure to perform 
any term or condition of this Agreement, or to bring an action for the breach of this 
Agreement. 
i. Force Majeure.  The performance of this Agreement by the parties shall be 
subject to force majeure including, but not limited to, acts of God, fire, flood, natural 
disaster, war or threat of war, acts or threats of terrorism, civil disorder, unauthorized 
strikes, governmental regulation or advisory, reco gnized health threats as determined by 
the World Health Organization, the Centers for Disease Control, or local government 
authority or health agencies (including, but not limited to, the health threats of COVID-19, 
H1N1, or similar infectious diseases), curtailment of transportation facilities, or other 
similar occurrence beyond the control of the parties, where any of those factors, 
circumstances, situations, or conditions or similar ones prevent, dissuade, or unreasonably 
delay the performance required by this Agreement.  This Agreement may be cancelled by 
any party, without liability, damages, fees, or penalty, and any unused deposits or accounts 
paid shall be refunded, for any one or more of the above reasons, by written notice to the 
other parties. 
j. Severability.  If any provision of this Agreement is found to be invalid or 
unenforceable for any reason, the remaining provisions will continue to be valid and 
enforceable.  If a court finds that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or 
Memorandum Of Understanding Between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority 
Page 8 of 9 
unenforceable, but that by limiting such provision it would become valid and enforceable, 
then such provision will be deemed to be written, construed, and enforced as so limited. 
k. Notice.  All notices arising out of or from the provisions of this Agreement 
shall be in writing and given to the parties either by regular mail or delivery in person. 
l. Termination.  Any party may terminate its participation in this Agreement 
by providing one hundred twenty (120) days written notice to other party, and allowing the 
other party that one hundred twenty (120) days to cure any default. 
m. Prior Approval.  This Agreement shall not be binding upon the parties, no 
services shall be performed under the terms of this Agreement, and no payments shall be 
made until this Agreement has been reduced to writing and approved by all necessary 
authorities. 
n. Entirety of Contract.  This Agreement represents the entire and integrated 
agreement between the parties and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and 
agreements, whether written or oral. 
 
 
 
[THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] 
  
Memorandum Of Understanding Between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority 
Page 9 of 9 
 7. Signatures.  In witness thereof, the parties to this Agreement, through their duly 
authorized representatives, have executed this Agreement on the days and dates set out below and 
certify that they have read, understood, and knowingly and voluntarily agreed to the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement. 
 
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 
 
By: 
_____________________________ Date: _____________ 
Scott Roybal, DDA Board President Board 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF CHEYENNE 
 
BY: 
 
_____________________________ Date:_____________ 
Patrick Collins, Mayor 
(SEAL) 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
____________________________________ 
Kylie Soden, City Clerk 
 