Planning and Development Office 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282   (Fax) 307-637-6366 
 
 
 
 
 
MEMO 
To: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
From: Connor White, Planner II 
Subject: PLTA-25-3 – Amending UDC Sections 1.4.3, 1.4.4.e, and 5.7.2. 
Date: April 28, 2025 
 
Background:  
The item for consideration is a UDC Text Amendment. This is approved by Ordinance.    
 
The proposed Governing Body review schedule is as follows: 
• Introduction and Referral  4/28/2025 
• Public Services Committee  5/5/2025 
• Second reading    5/12/2025 
• Public Services Committee  5/19/2025 
• Third and final reading   5/27/2025 
 
Planning Commission Recommendation:  
The Planning Commission heard this item at their April 21, 2025, meeting and unanimously voted to 
recommend the Governing Body approve the proposed text amendment with the following change: 
 
5.7.2.e reads as follows: 
No exterior storage of materials or equipment is permitted. No storage of more than one motorized 
vehicle and trailer associated with the business may be in the public right-of-way.  
 
Planning Commissions proposed change is reflected in the attached ordinance.  
 
The Planning Commission Staff report is attached and has not been changed.  
 
Attachments: 
1. Ordinance 
2. Redlined Ordinance 
3. Planning Commission Staff Report 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Planning and Development Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282 (Fax) 307-637-6366 
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: "AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 1.4.3, 1.4.4, AND 5.7.2 OF THE 
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TO AMEND SPECIFIC USES 
ALLOWED AS HOME OCCUPATIONS AND ADD CLARIFYING 
DEFINITIONS.” 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1.  That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
that is the subject of this ordinance meets the criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the Unified 
Development Code of the City of Cheyenne (UDC). 
 
Section 2.  That on April 21, 2025, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing, 
reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text amendment. 
 
Section 3.  That Section 1.4.3 of the UDC is amended to add the following definitions and 
read as shown in Exhibit A, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Massage Parlor. A business establishment where massage services are provided , which does not 
meet the definition of Massage Therapy.  
 
Massage Therapy. A medical service that emphasizes the therapeutic benefits of massage, aiming 
to address specific health concerns and practiced by a massage therapist, who typically undergoes 
extensive training and holds a license to practice.  
 
Section 4.  That Section 1.4.4.e of the UDC is amended as follows and to read as shown in 
Exhibit A, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Automobile Service Repair. A Commercial use engaged in the repair, maintenance, condition, 
detailing, or cleaning of motor vehicles and including the accessory sales of lubricants, parts, or 
accessories. Services also include any modification, assembly or painting of motor vehicles and 
repair of internal combustion engines. 
 
Section 5.  That Section 5.7.2 of the UDC is hereby amended to read:  
 
5.7.2 Home Occupations 
 
In districts where home occupations are allowed, they shall meet the following standards in 
addition to all other lot and building standards for the district. 
a. Home occupations include, but are not limited to, arts and crafts -making, tailoring or 
seamstress services, one or two person professional offices (medical, insurance, law, etc.), 
music instruction and wholesale/catalogue sales. 
Page 2 of 3 
 
b. Home occupations are intended to allow limited business activity from the home but shall 
not alter the character of the neighborhood. 
c. Additional off-street parking may be required for the home occupation business if more 
than three clients per day are expected to visit the business or if vehicles associated with 
the business are stored at the place of the home occupation. No additional p arking spaces 
shall be provided in the front yard setback (or within the side yard setback if the property 
is a corner lot). Where needed additional parking would alter the character of the 
neighborhood the home occupation shall be prohibited. 
d. There shall be no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare noticeable at 
or beyond the property line. 
e. No exterior storage of materials or equipment  is permitted. No storage of more than one 
motorized vehicle and trailer associated with the business may be in the public right -of-
way. 
f. Signage will be limited to one non-illuminated sign not more than three square feet in area 
per home. 
g. No retail sales are permitted from the site other than incidental sales related to services 
provided. 
h. Not more than one employee or co -worker other than the permanent resident(s) can work 
on the site. 
i. An “in-home” business operating from a residential dwelling within shall be registered in 
the home occupation data base, administered through the City Planning and Development 
Department and all applicable registration fees shall be paid. 
j. Specific Exclusions. The following businesses shall not be allowed as home occupations: 
1. Automobile Service Repair, however automobile detailing and/or cleaning shall be 
allowed as a home occupation with the following additional restrictions: 
(a) No more than three customers per day. 
(b) No more than one customer vehicle parked at the property at a time. 
(c) Vehicles that are being serviced must be parked on the property and cannot be 
parked in the street at any time. 
2. Massage parlors;  
3. Beauty parlors/salons, nail salons and barber shops if employing anyone other than 
the permanent residents of the property; 
4. Animal grooming salons and boarding kennels; 
5.  Body piercing/body art/tattoo art; 
6. Massage Therapy if employing anyone other than the permanent residents of the 
property. 
k. Specific Allowances. 
1. Mobile Service Providers Permitted at Client Residences. Certain businesses that 
involve providing services at a client’s home are permitted to operate at the client’s 
residence and are not subject to home occupation regulations at that location 
provided they meet all other regulations of this section and applicable local, state, 
and federal laws. Examples include house -call veterinarians, mobile massage 
therapists, mobile pet groomers, and similar providers. 
2. Office-Only Use for Off-Site Businesses. A business that is not typically permitted 
to operate as a home occupation may be allowed if the home is used exclusively for 
office-related functions and no clients, customers, employees, or business activities 
Page 3 of 3 
 
take place at the home provided they meet all other regulations of this section and 
applicable local, state, and federal laws. Examples include administrative work, 
scheduling, bookkeeping, or storage of vehicles or materials related to businesses 
that operate off site like food trucks, lawn care businesses, snow removal services, 
etc.  
 
Section 6.  Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any of the remaining 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
 Section 7.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
 
(SEAL) 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 17
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Adjacent.  A description of the proximity of two elements which 
includes abutting and any surrounding vicinity where the 
impacts described could be reasonably assumed to extend.
Alley.  A low capacity, low speed and minor street or access 
way typically located on the rear or side of properties and 
used for access to parking, service areas, accessory buildings or 
easements and not intended for through traffic.
Antenna. Any exterior transmitting or receiving communication 
device mounted on a tower, building or structure and used 
in communications that radiate or capture electromagnetic 
waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies 
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals 
or other communication signals.
Appeal.  A written request for a review of any final action or 
decision allowed by the provisions of this Title.
Applicant.  Any person(s), firm, corporation or entity requesting 
permission or desiring to officially apply for any action regulated 
by this Title.
Average Daily Traffic (ADT).  The total volume of vehicles during 
a given time period (in whole days greater than one day and 
less than one year) divided by the number of days in that time 
period.
Awning.  A shelter constructed of non-rigid materials along 
windows and sidewalks at the first story of a building, and 
mounted on a supporting framework projecting from and 
supported by the exterior wall of a building.
Base Flood Elevation. The elevation of the flood having a one 
percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Berm.   A mound of earth designed to provide a screen.
Best Management Practice. A technique, process, activity, or 
structure used to reduce pollutant discharges in stormwater. 
BMPs include source control practices (non-structural BMPs) 
and engineered structures designed to treat runoff. BMPs are 
most effective when used in combination and selected and 
designed based on site-specific characteristics. 
Bicycle Route.   A portion of a system of bikeways designated 
by appropriate route markers which can be a bicycle trail or 
bikeway.  
Bicycle Trail.  A trail or path separated from motor vehicles and 
designated exclusively for bicycles or shared by bicycles and 
pedestrians.
b. The minimum story shall be 9’ and the maximum 
story shall be 14’ , except that the height of the first 
story may be as high as 20’ for all non-residential 
buildings that are 2 stories or more.
c. Exception:  Where ground floor manufacturing 
uses, or warehouse retail is allowed in the zoning 
district, buildings for those uses shall have no 
limit on the first story and the maximum building 
height expressed in feet shall control.
2 Half-story. A space under a sloping roof that has the 
line of intersection of the roof and the exterior wall 
supporting the roof not more than 3’ above the floor 
level, and in which space the possible floor area with 
head room of 6’ or more occupies between 30% and 
70% of the total floor area of the story directly beneath.  
l. Wall plane. Any plane of continuous vertical, horizontal, or 
angled or inclined orientation which represents the exterior 
surface of a building or structure and which is not off-set 
by projections or recessions of at least 18 inches. Greater 
required off-sets and required total area of off-sets for wall 
planes may be specified in the context of these regulations. 
1.4.3 Defined Terms
All words and phrases shall have their ordinary and customary 
meanings unless the context of the word or phrase indicates 
otherwise. The following terms shall have the meaning given 
below, unless the context of the use of the term clearly indicates 
otherwise based on the Purposes, Intent, Design Objective or 
other guidance associated with its use in a particular section.  
Abutting.  A description of proximity where two elements share 
a common boundary.
Access Point.  A driveway, internal access street or similar 
vehicular entrance or exit to the interior of a block, lot or parcel 
from a street.
Accessory Use.  A subordinate use, clearly incidental and related 
to the principal use and located on the same property. 
Activity Center. Places where economic and social activity are 
focused. In addition, where the code specifically references 
PlanCheyenne or references specific types of activity centers 
described in PlanCheyenne the additional guidance in the 
Plan may be used to determine the context or applicability of 
a particular standard.
Exhibit A
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 18
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Building, Principal.   A building in which is conducted the main or 
principal use of the property on which the building is situated. 
Canopy.  A shelter constructed of rigid materials covered with 
fabric, metal or other material, along windows and sidewalks 
at the first story of a building, and projecting from the exterior 
wall, which may be freestanding or supported by a building at 
one or more points and by columns or posts embedded in the 
ground at other points.
Caretaker Unit. One or more living quarters or lodging facilities 
located within a non-residential building for the use of 
employees of the use. A Caretaker Unit shall not be considered 
a ‘residential use’ or ‘residential unit’ for the purposes of this 
code but shall be considered part of the non-residential square 
footage for the purposes of the code. The combined square 
footage of all Caretaker Units shall not comprise more than 
ten (10) percent of the principal use’s building square footage 
(should dwelling area exceed this amount, the living area shall 
be determined to be a “Mixed-use Dwelling” and a residential 
use for the purposes of this code). A Caretaker Unit is allowed 
as part of the approval of the principal use without any more 
restrictive approval process than that warranted for the 
principal use.
Certificate of Compliance. A certificate issued by the Development 
Office which indicates that the site plan requirements have 
been met.
Changeable Sign.  A sign whose informational content can be 
changed or altered by manual, electric, electromechanical or 
electronic means.  Changeable signs do not include Digital 
Billboards as defined in this code.
Change of Use.   Change of use constitutes at least one of the 
following:
1.  The proposed use is appreciably different than the 
current use;
2. There is an increase in the size of the existing building 
or extent of the use of the land;
3.  The use is permitted in the zoning district in which 
the use is located, but requires more parking than the 
previous use;
4.  The number of vehicle trips generated by the new use 
is or will be greater than the number of vehicle trips 
generated by the previous use as determined by the 
Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation, 
latest edition;
5.  The amount of stormwater runoff or impervious (to 
drainage) surface area will be increased with the new 
use.
Bikeway.  A street designed to incorporate bicycle travel through 
either shared vehicle / bicycle lanes or designated bicycle lanes.
Billboard. A sign structure advertising an establishment, a 
message, merchandise, service or entertainment which is not 
located, sold, produced, manufactured or furnished at the 
property on which the sign is located.  Billboard includes Digital 
Billboard as defined in this code.
Blinking. A form of flashing where the pattern of sudden 
illumination changes occurs with more than 2 on-off cycles per 
second.
Block.   An area of land that is entirely bounded by streets or 
other boundary permitted by these regulations where streets 
are not appropriate based on the context. 
Block Frontage.  The side or sides of a block that the majority of 
the lots or tracts face. 
BMP Maintenance. Routinely scheduled activities, as well as 
non-routine repairs that may be required after large storms, or 
as a result of other unforeseen problems, as necessary to ensure 
proper BMP function. 
Building.   Any structure used or intended for supporting or 
sheltering any use or occupancy.
Building, Accessory.  A detached, subordinate structure, the use 
of which is clearly incidental and related to that of the principal 
building or use of the land, and which is located on the same 
property as that of the principal structure or use. 
Building, Attached.  A building having one or more party walls in 
common with an adjacent building.
Building, Detached.  A building having no common wall or 
structural attachment with another building.
Building, Existing.  A building erected prior to the adoption of 
the ordinance codified in this Title, or prior to the effective date 
of a provision in this Title, whichever is earlier, or one for which a 
building permit has been issued, or erected in accordance with 
this code after its adoption.
Building, Nonconforming.  A building existing or one for which 
a building permit has been issued at the time of the adoption 
of this code which does not comply with the regulations of the 
zoning district in which the building is located.
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 19
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Detention. The temporary storage of storm runoff in a 
stormwater management facility with the goals of controlling 
peak discharge rates and providing gravity settling of 
pollutants.
Detention Facility. A detention basin or alternative structure 
designed for the purpose of temporary storage of stream 
flow or surface runoff and gradual release of stored water at 
controlled rates. 
Developer.  The owner of land proposed for development, or 
the owner’s authorized representative, or any person who 
causes the following to take place either directly or indirectly:  
division of property for the purpose of development; 
sells, leases or develops property, or offers or advertises or 
otherwise engages in business for the same; or has control 
or is controlled in such a way to have influence in any of the 
above.
Development.  Any man-made change to real estate, 
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings 
or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, 
excavation or drilling. 
Development Footprint. The development footprint is the 
total land area that is permanently affected by development 
activities, and includes buildings, structures, hardscape, 
utilities, roads and parking areas, maneuvering areas, storage 
areas, areas associated with the use on the property, and 
areas cleared of natural vegetation and topsoil.
Digital Billboard. A billboard displaying static images 
controlled by electronic communications.
Dissolve.  A transition between digital messages that is 
achieved with varying light intensity and where the first 
message gradually appears to dissipate and loses legibility 
simultaneous to the gradual appearance and legibility of the 
subsequent message.
Double frontage lot. See “Lot, double frontage. ”
Drive-in or Drive-up Facility.   A portion of an establishment 
designed for retail or service to persons in automobiles, 
including a driveway approach, order facilities, signs and 
delivery windows.  
Driveway.  A vehicle access way located on private property.
Driveway Approach.   A constructed vehicle access point 
within the right-of-way between the roadway and the 
adjacent property line.
Channel. A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and 
banks that conveys continuously or periodically flowing water. 
Interchangeable terms include creek, drainageway, river, stream, 
and watercourse.
City Engineer. The City of Cheyenne City Engineer, his designated 
representative or the City Engineering Department.
Comprehensive Plan. The general plan for land use, transportation, 
utilities, annexation, and community facilities prepared and 
maintained by the Commission, and any other more specific plan, 
program or policy prepared under the guidance of that plan.
Construction, New.   Structures for which the construction 
commenced on or after the effective date of the ordinance codified 
in this Title.
Construction, Start of.  The first placement of permanent 
construction of a structure (other than a manufactured home), 
such as the excavation of footings or foundations, or the pouring 
of slabs or foundations. Permanent construction does not include 
land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, nor does it 
include the installation of streets and/or sidewalks. For a structure 
(other than a manufactured home) without a basement or poured 
footings, the “start of construction” includes the first permanent 
framing or assembly of the structure or any part thereof on 
its piling or foundation. For manufactured home not within a 
manufactured home park or subdivision, “start of construction” 
means the affixing of the manufactured home to its permanent 
site. For manufactured home within manufactured home parks 
or manufactured home subdivisions, “start of construction” is the 
date on which the structure is to be affixed.
Corner lot. See “Lot, corner. ”
Crosswalk. Any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for 
pedestrian crossing.
Cul-de-sac.  A short dead-end street terminating with a vehicular 
turn-around area.
Curb Radii.  The curved or flared portion of a street curb at driveway 
approaches or intersections.
Decorative Fence. A fence constructed out of materials such as 
wood, stone, or metal, or a combination thereof, primarily for 
aesthetic purposes to enhance the appearance of a property and 
generally not obstructing the visibility into or out of a property. A 
decorative fence shall not include chain link, wire, snow fences, or 
a standard wooden or vinyl privacy fences
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 20
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
compensates for the many unknown factors that could 
contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated 
for the design flood.
Functional turf grass. An area of living turf grass or lawn that is 
used regularly for human recreational purposes or domestic 
animal use. Functional turf grass or lawns include Kentucky 
bluegrasses, fescues, or similar sod-forming grasses requiring ½ 
inch or more of supplemental watering per week during hot, 
dry periods.
Garage.  A building or portions of a building for the storage of 
automobiles or other property, accessory to the principle use 
of the site.
Greenway. A linear open space established along either a 
natural corridor, such as a stream valley, or overland along a 
road or railroad right-of-way converted to recreational use;  a 
natural or landscaped course prepared for pedestrian or bicycle 
passage; certain designated strips or linear parks and open 
spaces connected and designated by the City as part of the 
Greenway System.
Height. When referring to a tower or other structure, height is 
the distance measured from the finished grade of the parcel to 
the highest point on the tower or other structure, including the 
base pad and any antenna.
High-power Transmission Lines.  Transmission lines which carry 
sixty-nine thousand (69,000) volts or more.  
Immediate.  A transition between static message displays that is 
achieved in 2 seconds or less.
Impoundment Yard.  A fenced yard or enclosed area where 
storage of vehicles seized by,  and in the custody of, a 
government agency, are stored for retrieval by the vehicle 
owner or are sold by proper means by the agency.
Improvement.  Buildings, structures and all facilities of a public 
nature indented for public use – including streets, sidewalks, 
curbs, gutters, alleys and other public ways, parks, recreational 
facilities, water, sewage, solid waste disposal and other sanitary 
systems and facilities.
Infill Development. For commercial or residential parcels shall be 
defined by the following criteria:
1. One parcel surrounded by urban development on at 
least three sides (does not have to be directly adjacent 
to); and
2. Served by existing underground sewer and water 
utilities.
Dwelling Unit.   One or more rooms which are intended for 
human occupancy as a place of residence with facilities for 
living, cooking and eating for one family unit, manifesting 
around one single kitchen, excluding wet bars with no stove 
or range, and one single laundry facility. Cooking facilities and 
other accommodations, such as laundry, should be accessible 
to all occupants of the dwelling through internally connected 
spaces.
Easement. A permanent or temporary grant of right by a 
property owner to the public, a corporation or other person(s) 
for the use of a strip or parcel of land for specified purposes. 
Ownership shall remain with the property owner. 
Electrical Sign. A sign or sign structure in which electrical wiring, 
connections or fixtures are used.  Electrical sign does not include 
a digital billboard as defined in this section.
Fade. A transition between static message displays that is 
achieved with varying light intensity and where the first 
message gradually loses light intensity to the point of not 
being legible and the subsequent message gradually increases 
intensity to the point of legibility.
Family Unit. One or more persons who are related by blood, 
marriage, domestic partnership or legal adoption living together 
as a single household; or a group of not more than four (4) 
persons not related by blood, marriage, domestic partnership 
or legal adoption, living together as a single household.
Fence.  A man-made partition, structure, wall or a gate erected 
as a dividing marker, barrier, enclosure or screening device. 
Flag.  A sign made of fabric or other non-rigid material with no 
enclosing framework containing distinctive colors, patterns, or 
symbols, used as identification for or a symbol of a government, 
political subdivision, or other entity. 
Flashing. A pattern of changing light illumination where the 
sign illumination alternates suddenly between fully illuminated 
and fully non-illuminated in a time frame of less than 4 seconds.
Floor Area Ratio (FAR). The total square feet of the building 
divided by the total square feet of the lot the building is located 
on.
Foot Candle. A unit of illuminance equal to 1 lumen, uniformly 
incident upon an area of 1 square foot.
Freeboard. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a 
flood level for purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard 
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 21
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Low Impact Development (LID). An approach to land 
development (or redevelopment) that works with nature 
to manage stormwater as close to its source as possible.  LID 
emphasizes conservation and use of on-site natural features to 
protect water quality.  This approach implements engineered 
small-scale hydrologic controls to mimic the pre-development 
hydrologic regime of watersheds through infiltrating, filtering, 
storing, evaporating, and detaining runoff. The term Green 
Infrastructure may also be used. 
Major Drainageway. Any drainage flow path mapped with an 
area of special flood hazard on the Flood Insurance Rate Map 
(FIRM).
Manufactured Home.  A structure transportable in one or more 
sections which, in the traveling mode, is 8 body feet or more 
in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected 
on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a 
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling 
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to 
the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-
conditioning and electrical systems contained therein; except 
that such term shall include any structure which meets all the 
requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements 
and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a 
certification required by the secretary (HUD) and complies with 
the standards established by HUD.  For manufactured homes 
built prior to June 15, 1976, a label certifying compliance to the 
standard for mobile homes, NFPA 501, ANSI 119.1, in effect at 
the time of manufacture is required. 
Massage Parlor . A business establishment where massage 
services are provided which does not meet the definition of 
Massage Therapy. 
Massage Therapy . A medical service that emphasizes the 
therapeutic benefits of massage, aiming to address specific 
health concerns and practiced by a massage therapist, who 
typically undergoes extensive training and holds a license to 
practice.
Moving Light.  The physical change in position of any visible 
illumination source while lighted or the simulation of movement 
achieves with a pattern of sequentially illuminating visible 
illumination sources within close proximity to each other.
MS4 Permit. A state or federal stormwater discharge permit 
to regulate discharges from municipal separate storm 
sewer systems (MS4s) for compliance with Clean Water Act 
regulations; used interchangeably with the term National 
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit and 
Infiltration. The process of percolating stormwater into the 
subsoil.
Interior lot. See “Lot, interior. ”
Intermittent. A pattern of changing light intensity, other than 
that achieved with immediate, fade or dissolve transitions, 
where any message remains static for over 4 seconds.
Intersection.  The junction of two streets.
Land Disturbance Activity. Grading, digging, cutting, scraping, 
or excavating of soil, placement of fill materials, paving, 
construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any activity 
which bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of 
any natural or man-made watercourse.
Landscape Points System.  The point system used for determining 
the minimum vegetation requirement. 
Landscaped Setback. The minimum required landscaping area 
on private or government-owned property which is adjacent to 
a property line common to a street right-of-way.  Driveways and 
sidewalks to afford required access shall be allowed to interrupt 
this required space. 
Landscape, Street Tree Area.   The landscaped area between 
property line and the street, within the right-of-way.
Landscaping.  Any combination of living plants, such as trees, 
shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers or grass; natural features, 
such as rock, stone, bark chips or shavings; and structural 
features, including, but not limited to, fountains, reflecting 
pools, outside art work, screen walls, fences or benches. 
Landscaping, Internal.   That area that lies within the property 
lines not covered by buildings, parking, outside storage, 
sidewalks and driveways. 
Landscaping, Xeriscape.  A water-saving landscape design that 
limits turf areas, utilizes mulches, efficient irrigation (often 
drip or subsurface) and use of native or drought-tolerant 
plant materials. When done properly, it is as lush and green as 
traditional landscapes, but has the benefits of lower water use 
and less maintenance after establishment. 
Loading Space.   An on- or off-street space for the standing, 
loading, and unloading of vehicles, people or articles. 
Lot.  A designated unit of land established by a plat or otherwise 
as permitted by law, for the transfer of ownership or to be used, 
developed, or built upon, whether immediate or future.
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 22
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Pre-existing Towers and Pre-existing Antennas.  Any tower 
or antenna for which a building permit or wireless 
telecommunications permit (WTP) was issued prior to the 
effective date of this Title, including permitted towers or 
antennas that have not yet been constructed so long as such 
approval is current and not expired.
Public Drainage System. The system of storm sewers, channels, 
culverts, creeks, flows within public streets, and associated 
detention and water quality structures owned and maintained 
by the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, or the Wyoming 
Department of Transportation. 
Public Land.   Land owned, controlled and/or operated by a 
governmental unit. 
Published Notice.    A notice provided in accordance with 
Wyoming Statutes. 
Redevelopment. The replacement of impervious surfaces on a 
developed site that is surrounded by urban development on 
at least three sides.  Redevelopment occurs when the existing 
facilities are demolished and rebuilt or substantially changed 
through reconstruction.  Resurfacing parking lots with no 
charge in overall dimensions or drainage patterns is not 
considered redevelopment even if the pavement is completely 
replaced. 
Regional Detention Facilities.   A system or parts of a system to 
control run-off from a defined area within a drainage basin and 
designed to coordinate with other similar facilities to manage 
the drainage basin and tributaries, typically considering areas 
greater than 100 acres or capacities of more than 30 acre-feet 
or as otherwise specified in a drainage master plan or current 
Storm Drainage Manual.
Remainder Lot.  A lot or tract of land designated on a plat 
which is not eligible for development, or to service adjacent 
development, and may be reserved for future platting. A 
remainder lot shall not be for the purpose of sale, lease, or 
financing; nor be eligible for development. Remainder lots 
shall not be required to meet the dimensional standards of 
the zoning district. Developed properties, excluding land 
developed for agricultural purposes, are not eligible to be 
remainder lots. Remainder lot(s) must be referred to as “outlots” , 
“remainder lots” , or “tracts” on plats.
Right-of-way.  Land dedicated and set aside for use by the 
public,  primarily for the right of vehicle or pedestrian travel, 
but typically designed to include multiple and other public 
purposes.
collectively referred to as federal stormwater discharge permit.
Nonfunctional turf grass. An area of living turf grass or lawn 
that is not used regularly for human recreational purposes or 
domestic animal use. Nonfunctional turf grass or lawns include 
Kentucky bluegrasses, fescues, or similar sod-forming grasses 
requiring ½ inch or more of supplemental watering per week 
during hot, dry periods.
Nonpoint Source Pollution. Pollution from any source other than 
from any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyances, and 
shall include, but not be limited to, pollutants from agricultural, 
silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and 
urban runoff sources.
Off-premise Sign.  Any sign not identified as a “Billboard” and 
which is used for the purpose of displaying, advertising, 
identifying, or directing attention to a business, service, activity 
or place, including products or services sold or offered for 
sale, on premises other than the premises where such sign is 
displayed.
Open Space Systems.  A system of various types of outdoor space, 
designed to function as aesthetic, recreation, and ecological 
support for development. Elements of the open space system 
can include private, common, or public open spaces. 
Owner.   The owner of record of a parcel of land, as recorded in 
the office of the county clerk. 
Parapet.   The architectural enhancement in the design of the 
façade that extends ornamental details above a roof line to the 
extent necessary to screen the roof and roof-top equipment.
Parcel.   A contiguous  unit of land  owned and recorded as the 
property of the same persons or controlled by a single entity.
Parking Lot.  An area other than a street or alley designated for 
the parking of five or more motor vehicles. 
Parking Space.   A space specially designed for the parking of a 
motor vehicle.
Party Wall.   A wall common to two or more units which are 
intended to be individually owned. 
Pedestrian.  A person on foot or a self-propelled conveyance 
intended for use of persons with physical impairments.
Person.  An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, or 
association, or any combination of these, or any other legal or 
commercial entity acting as a unit.
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 23
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
individuals, and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked 
and visible from the public right-of-way when such vehicle is 
used in the normal day-to-day operations of a business. 
Site Plan.  A plan of the land showing the existing and proposed 
features for the property. 
Static. Having no motion within a particular message or copy 
displayed on a digital billboard.
Storm Sewer.  An underground pipe system that carries 
stormwater from streets and other surfaces and discharges 
directly to a pond, stream or river; used interchangeably with 
the term “storm drain. ”
Stormwater Management. Anything associated with the 
planning, construction, maintenance, or regulation of facilities 
which collect, store, convey or treat stormwater. 
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP). A written plan 
required under state and federal stormwater discharge permits 
identifying measures that will be implemented to minimize 
the discharge of pollutants in stormwater.  Requirements for 
SWPPPs are specified in state and federal discharge permits.  
Requirements vary depending on whether the discharge 
permit is associated with municipal, industrial, or construction 
activities. 
Stormwater Retrofit. A stormwater management practice 
designed for an existing development site that previously 
had either no stormwater management practice in place or 
a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management 
requirements of the site. 
Stormwater Runoff. Also known as Stormwater, means flow 
on the surface of the ground, resulting from precipitation.  
Interchangeable terms include drainage and runoff.
Street.  Any public  way for the movement of vehicular and 
pedestrian traffic which is an existing federal, state, county or 
municipal roadway; or a right-of-way shown upon a plat, and 
approved pursuant to law, whether improved or unimproved, 
and may comprise pavement, shoulders, curbs, gutters, 
sidewalks, parking areas and other areas within the right-of-
way. 
Street, Arterial.  Refers to the functional classification of a street 
in the entire transportation network, which has considerable 
continuity over long distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the 
context, the standards in these regulations, and other specific 
transportation plans and policies.
Roadway.  That portion of a street designed and intended 
primarily for vehicles.
Sanitary System . A sewer system or systems including 
mechanisms of collection, treatment and disposal of domestic 
and/or commercial sewage. 
Screening.  A feature used to visually separate elements on 
abutting or adjacent development sites. 
Sidewalk.  That portion of a street designed and intended 
primarily for use of pedestrians.
Sign. Any announcement, declaration, demonstration, display 
illustration or insignia, or other identification, that is visible from 
any public place or is located on private property and exposed 
to the public and that directs attention to a product, service, 
place, activity, person, institution, business or solicitation, 
including structures that exist to support or enhance the sign.
Sign, Animated.   A sign that uses movement or change of 
lighting to depict action or create a special effect or scene. 
Signs, Building Marker.  A sign indicating the name of a building, 
a date and incidental information about its construction, cut 
into a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent 
material. 
Sign, Abandoned.  A sign which no longer identifies or advertises 
a bona fide business, service, owner, product, or activity, and/or 
for which no legal owner can be found.
Sign, Electronic Message Center.   A sign where alphabetic, 
pictographic or symbolic informational content can be changed 
or altered on a fixed display surface composed of electrically 
illuminated or mechanically driven, changeable segments.
Sign, Government.  A sign erected and maintained by the United 
States or state of Wyoming, or any political subdivision thereof, 
for traffic direction or for designation of or direction to any 
school, hospital, historical site or public service, property or 
facility.
Sign, Nameplate.  A sign giving only the name, address and/or 
occupation of an occupant or group of occupants. 
Sign, Portable.   A sign not permanently attached to the 
ground or other permanent structure, or a sign designed to 
be transported, including, but not limited to, signs designed 
to be transported by means of wheels, signs converted to A- 
or T-frames, and balloons used as signs.  “Portable sign” shall 
not include umbrellas used for advertising, signs carried by 
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 24
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
metropolitan Denver drainage organization. 
Utilities, Essential Services.  Those utility facilities that provide 
end user services to customers. They include local distribution 
and collection lines for gas, electricity, water, sewer, telephone 
or cable TV services throughout neighborhoods and connect 
with each customer. They consist of cables, wires or pipes 
with limited capacities and the associated hardware, such as 
transformers, relays and shut-off valves. They also consist of 
traffic-control boxes and traffic signal installations. 
Utility Facilities. Any utility facility, whether or not regulated by 
the Wyoming Public Service Commission, not described as an 
essential service utility. 
Wall, Retaining. A physical barrier necessary to prevent erosion 
and/or retain earth. 
Water Quality Capture Volume (WQCV).  Represents runoff from 
frequent storm events such as the 80th percentile storm.  The 
volume varies depending on local rainfall data.  The WQCV is 
based on runoff from 0.6 inches of precipitation (approximately 
0.5 inches of runoff ).
Water System.  A public or private system of providing potable 
water to a structure for domestic use. 
Woonerf. A street designed for use by pedestrian and vehicular 
traffic, where the pedestrian has the right-of-way.
WyDEQ. The Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality.
1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings
This section contains general descriptions associated with the 
uses of land and buildings. It is organized according to categories 
of uses and specific types of uses within each category. These 
categories and types correspond to the Use Table in Article 5, 
Zoning Regulations. Where a use appears to meet two or more 
descriptions or where a use is not described, the Director shall 
make a determination.  If a use meets all of the characteristics of 
a use category and use type, or is so similar to a described use 
type as to create no anticipated differential impact, the Director 
may interpret that the described use includes the additional 
use. In making this determination, the Director shall compare: 
(a) the intensity and scale of the use relative to the site; (b) the 
typical site and building designs associated with the use; (c) 
the functional or operational characteristics and the potential 
impacts of the use on adjacent property; and (d) the potential 
contribution of the use to the overall character of the district or 
Street, Collector.  Refers to the functional classification of a street 
in the entire transportation network, which has moderate 
continuity over medium distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the 
context, the standards in these regulations, and other specific 
transportation plans and policies.
Street, Local.  Refers to the functional classification of a street in 
the entire transportation network, which has limited continuity 
except for short distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the 
context, the standards in these regulations, and other specific 
transportation plans and policies.
Structure.   That which is built or constructed, an edifice, or 
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up 
or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner. 
Tiedown.  Any device designed to anchor a manufactured home 
or any other accessory building or structure to the ground. 
Temporary Use.   A use or activity that is intended to occupy the 
site on a non-continuous basis for more than 14 days.
Tower. Any structure that is designed and constructed 
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas 
for telephone, radio and similar communication purposes, 
including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers or 
monopole towers. The term includes, but is not limited to, 
radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, 
common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative 
tower structures and any tower support.
Tract.   A unit of land established by a plat or otherwise as 
permitted by law, designated for limited or no development as 
part of an approved plan for a legitimate public or community 
purpose and designated for public or common ownership and 
maintenance.
Traffic-control Devices.   Signs, signals, markings, or other 
approved geometric designs in the roadway approved by the 
public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of 
regulating, warning, guiding, or calming traffic.
Triple frontage lot. See “Lot, triple frontage. ”
Unit Space. A designated portion of a manufactured home park 
for the accommodation of one manufactured home. 
Urban Drainage and Flood Control District (UDFCD). The 
Medical Care, Office.   A Service use where physicians, 
dentists, or other health care professionals carrying 
on their professions. A medical office may include a 
dental or medical laboratory, but may not include in-
patient care or operating rooms for major surgery and 
may not be open for after-hours emergency care.
Medical Care, Hospital.  A Service use providing  health 
services, primarily for inpatients, and medical or 
surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an 
integral part of the institution such related facilities 
as laboratories, outpatient departments, training 
facilities, central service facilities and staff offices.
Mini Storage.  A Service use where a building or 
group of buildings in a controlled access and fenced 
compound that contains varying sizes(s) of individual, 
compartmentalized and controlled-access stalls or 
lockers for the storage of a customer’s goods or wares. 
Mini Storage may include individual units accessed 
from inside of a building offered for rent or lease for 
the storage of personal property. It may also include 
parking areas for the storage of vehicles, trailers, 
recreational vehicles, boats, snow mobiles and other 
similar items as an accessory use. Outdoor storage, 
or the storage of junk, explosives, or flammable 
materials and other noxious or dangerous materials 
are specifically prohibited.
Storage, Yard.  A Service use where exterior yards are 
leased for the outdoor storage of large-item personal 
property such as boats or recreational vehicles.
d. Employment Uses.  The Employment use category is 
for businesses engaged in administrative, clerical, and 
professional operations and support, where products or 
services are of the nature that generally, when compared 
to Retail Use Types, do not require daily on-premise 
interactions with the clients, customers or patrons, and 
where lots and buildings are not primarily designed to 
maximize exposure to the public-at-large.  
Home Occupation.  A business which is carried on 
entirely within a legal or legal non-conforming 
dwelling or allowed accessory building, and which 
is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the 
premises as a dwelling.
Office - Limited.  An Employment use which is not an 
accessory to another use, but limited individual units 
of gross leasable area are less than 3,500 square feet, 
and where each owner or tenant typically employs 
less than 20 employees on premises.   Examples 
include small-scale professional service offices such 
as accountants, architects, insurance, law, real estate, 
or other similar businesses which can operate within 
the unit square footage and employee limits of this 
category. 
Office - General.  An Employment use where individual 
units of gross leasable area are between 3,500 and 
20,000 square feet, and where each owner or tenant 
typically employs between 20 and 100 employees on 
premises.  Examples include large professional service 
offices such as accountants, architects, insurance, law, 
real estate, or other similar businesses which exceed 
the Office - Limited category, or other moderate size 
business or corporate employment operations.
Major Office or Office Complex.   An Employment use 
where individual units of  gross leasable area may 
be more than 20,000 square feet in a single building 
or group of buildings, and each owner or tenant 
may typically employ more than 100 employees on 
premises.  Examples include major professional service 
firms or large corporate offices.
e. Commercial Uses.  The Commercial use category is for 
businesses engaged in the exchange of merchandise for 
general consumers, and nature of the exchange generally 
requires frequent interactions with the clients, customers 
or patrons on the premises, where lots or buildings are 
primarily designed for exposure to the public-at-large.
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k).  A Commercial 
use primarily engaged in the small-scale sale of 
household merchandise and general consumer 
products and involving less than 2,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area.  Convenience Retail / Corner Store 
uses are characterized by target market areas of less 
than 1/4 mile radius for most of its on-premise sales or 
are associated accessory to an employment or service 
business.
Neighborhood Retail (<5K).  A Commercial use 
primarily engaged in the small-scale sale of household 
merchandise and general consumer products and 
involving less than 5,000 square feet of gross leasable 
area.  Neighborhood retail uses are characterized by a 
target market area of less than ½ mile radius for most 
of its on premise sales.
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 28Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 29
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
to less than 10% of the entire merchandise area of the 
Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sales 
or events lasting no longer than one-week at a time 
with at least 4 weeks between consecutive events.
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal.  The limited display of 
merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior private 
area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
Commercial use.  This display is further limited by the 
following:  (1) it only occurs during regular business 
hours and is brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent 
to less than 20% of the entire merchandise area of the 
Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sales 
or events lasting no longer than one month at a time 
with at least 2 months between consecutive events.
Outdoor Sales, Event  or Display Area .  The display of 
merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior private 
area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
Commercial use that does not meet the limitations of 
Limited or Seasonal Outdoor Sales, and which may 
require areas to be designed and dedicated for display 
when part of the permanent operations of an interior 
retail business. Examples include lumber yards and 
garden centers.
Outdoor Sales.   The display and sale of merchandise 
where the primary business is generated by 
merchandise displayed permanently and year round 
on an exterior portion of the site. Examples include 
automobile sales and implement sales.
Bars.   A Commercial use primarily engaged in serving 
alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises.  
Any food or entertainment services are generally 
secondary or accessory to the business.
Liquor Store.  A Commercial use engaged primarily in 
the retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption 
off-premises.  The sale of food or accessory beverage 
supplies are generally secondary or accessory to the 
business.
Automobile Service Repair.  A Commercial use engaged 
in the repair, maintenance, or condition, detailing, or 
cleaning of motor vehicles and including the accessory 
sales of lubricants, parts, or accessories. Services also 
include any modification, assembly or painting of 
motor vehicles and repair of internal combustion 
engines.
General Retail (5K -  25K).  A Commercial use primarily 
engaged in the sale of household merchandise, 
specialty merchandise, and consumer products 
and involving between 5,000 and 25,000 square 
feet of gross leasable area.  General Retail uses are 
characterized by a target market area of less than 1 
mile radius for most of its on-premise sales.
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K). A Commercial 
use primarily engaged in the sale of household 
merchandise, specialty merchandise or general 
consumer products and involving between 25,000 
and 100,000 square feet of gross leasable area.  Large-
scale Retail uses are characterized by a target market 
area that may be greater than 1 mile radius for the on-
premise component of its sales.
Warehouse Retail (> 100K).  A Commercial use primarily 
engaged in the sale of household merchandise, 
specialty products, general consumer products, 
or wholesale products and involving greater than 
100,000 square feet of gross leasable area.  Warehouse 
Retail uses are characterized by a target market area 
that may be more than 1 mile radius for most of its 
sales.
Grocery Store (<45K).   A Commercial use engaged 
in the retail sale of a broad range of food products 
and limited household products for consumption 
off premises, although some limited areas may be 
dedicated to the on-premise sale and consumption of 
food.  A grocery store involves less than 45,000 square 
feet of gross leasable area and is characterized by a 
target market of less than 1-mile radius.
Supermarket  (> 45K).   A Commercial use engaged in 
the retail sale of a broad range of food and household 
products for consumption off premises, although 
some limited areas may be dedicated to the on-
premise sale and consumption of food. A supermarket 
typically involves more than 45,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area and is characterized by a target 
market of greater than 1-mile radius.
Outdoor Sales, Limited.  The limited display of 
merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior private 
area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
Commercial use.  This display is further limited by the 
following:  (1) it only occurs during regular business 
hours and is brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent 
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions
Article 1
GenerA l Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 30
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
support equipment, including power and cooling 
equipment. A data center may be used to provide 
data and transaction processing services, outsource 
information  technology services and/or computer 
equipment colocation services. A data center may 
also include buildings or structures that support 
the operation of the data center including retrofit 
buildings, warehousing for logistics, independent 
network buildings, buildings for support staff, and 
emergency generators. A Data Center shall not 
include activities which consistently produce noise 
discernable at the property line. Should a Data Center 
produce noise discernable at the property line, it shall 
be classified as an Industrial use.
Limited Industrial.  An Industrial use where small-scale 
activities produce no byproducts such as smoke, 
odor, dust or noise discernable from the outside of 
the building in which it is located.  Individual facilities 
typically occupy less than 10,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area and distribution and deliveries 
are commonly made by general consumer delivery 
services, requiring no significant truck access.  A retail, 
showroom, or service component is often associated 
with the use.  Examples include artist studios, metal 
and wood shops, arts and crafts manufacturing, small 
appliance or machine repairs, or other small-scale 
assembly of finished parts or products from previously 
prepared materials.
Moderate Industrial .  An Industrial use where 
byproducts such as smoke, odor, dust or noise are 
not discernable from outside of the building in which 
it is located. Distribution and deliveries can occur 
from general consumer delivery services or limited 
commercial truck access.   Examples include research 
labs or facilities, small electronics or computer 
assembly and manufacturing, furniture assembly. 
General Industrial.  An Industrial use where byproducts 
such as smoke, odor, dust or noise are not discernable 
from beyond the property boundary. Operations may 
require commercial vehicle access for distribution 
and deliveries.  Examples include non-animal food 
processing, commercial warehouses or wholesale 
distribution centers or energy industry services.
Industrial. An Industrial use capable of producing 
significant byproducts discernable from outside the 
building and property including noise, odors, or other 
Automobile Service Station – Limited.   A Commercial 
use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, and may include 
accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair 
services, or maintenance services.  This use is limited 
to no more than 2 fuel pump islands and no more than 
8 fueling stations.
Automobile Service Station – General.  A Commercial 
use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, and may 
include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, 
repair services, or maintenance services, or accessory 
Convenience Retail.  This use is limited to no more 
than 4 fuel pump islands and no more than 16 fueling 
stations.
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale.  A Commercial 
use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, and may 
include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, 
repair services, or maintenance services, or accessory 
Convenience Retail.  This use may have more than 4 
fuel pump islands and more than 16 fueling stations.
Food Service – Limited (< 2K).  Any Commercial use 
engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food and 
beverages for consumption on-site and including less 
than 2,000 square feet of seating area. 
Food Service – General (2K – 4K).    Any Commercial use 
engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food 
and beverages for consumption on-site and including 
between 2,000 and 4,000 square feet of seating area.
Food Service – Large-scale (> 4k).   Any Commercial use 
engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food 
and beverages for consumption on site and including 
more than 4,000 square feet of seating area.  
f. Industrial Use Category.   The Industrial use category is 
for businesses engaged in manufacturing, fabrication, 
warehousing, processing, wholesale or disposal of goods, 
products and component parts, and services related to 
these businesses.  These uses typically belong in a special 
district due to their inability to blend with the uses from 
other use categories, except when occurring at the smallest 
scale.
Data Center. A use consisting of buildings or 
structures specifically designed or modified to house 
networked computers and data and transaction 
processing equipment and related infrastructure 
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: "AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 1.4.3, 1.4.4, AND 5.7.2 OF THE 
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TO AMEND SPECIFIC USES 
ALLOWED AS HOME OCCUPATIONS AND ADD CLARIFYING 
DEFINITIONS.” 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1.  That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
that is the subject of this ordinance meets the criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the Unified 
Development Code of the City of Cheyenne (UDC). 
 
Section 2.  That on April 21, 2025, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing, 
reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text amendment. 
 
Section 3.  That Section 1.4.3 of the UDC is amended to add the following definitions and 
read as shown in Exhibit A, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Massage Parlor. A business establishment where massage services are provided , which does not 
meet the definition of Massage Therapy.  
 
Massage Therapy. A medical service that emphasizes the therapeutic benefits of massage, aiming 
to address specific health concerns and practiced by a massage therapist, who typically undergoes 
extensive training and holds a license to practice.  
 
Section 4.  That Section 1.4.4.e of the UDC is amended as follows and to read as shown in 
Exhibit A, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Automobile Service Repair. A Commercial use engaged in the repair, maintenance, or condition, 
detailing, or cleaning of motor vehicles and including the accessory sales of lubricants, parts, or 
accessories. Services also include any modification, assembly or painting of motor vehicles and 
repair of internal combustion engines. 
 
Section 5.  That Section 5.7.2 of the UDC is hereby amended to read:  
 
5.7.2 Home Occupations 
 
In districts where home occupations are allowed, they shall meet the following standards in 
addition to all other lot and building standards for the district. 
a. Home occupations include, but are not limited to, arts and crafts -making, tailoring or 
seamstress services, one or two person professional offices (medical, insurance, law, etc.), 
music instruction and wholesale/catalogue sales. 
Page 2 of 3 
 
b. Home occupations are intended to allow limited business activity from the home but shall 
not alter the character of the neighborhood. 
c. Additional off-street parking may be required for the home occupation business if more 
than three clients per day are expected to visit the business or if vehicles associated with 
the business are stored at the place of the home occupation. No additional p arking spaces 
shall be provided in the front yard setback (or within the side yard setback if the property 
is a corner lot). Where needed additional parking would alter the character of the 
neighborhood the home occupation shall be prohibited. 
d. There shall be no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare noticeable at 
or beyond the property line. 
e. No exterior storage of materials or equipment  is permitted. No storage of more than one 
motorized vehicle and trailer associated with the business may be in the public right -of-
way. 
f. Signage will be limited to one non-illuminated sign not more than three square feet in area 
per home. 
g. No retail sales are permitted from the site other than incidental sales related to services 
provided. 
h. Not more than one employee or co -worker other than the permanent resident(s) can work 
from on the site. 
i. An “in-home” business operating from a residential dwelling within shall be registered in 
the home occupation data base, administered through the City Planning and Development 
Department and all applicable registration fees shall be paid. 
j. Specific Exclusions. The following businesses shall not be allowed as home occupations: 
1. Auto body or mechanical repair, to include any modification, assembly or painting 
of motor vehicles and repair of internal combustion engines;  Automobile Service 
Repair, however automobile detailing and/or cleaning shall be allowed as a home 
occupation with the following additional restrictions: 
(a) No more than three customers per day. 
(b) No more than one customer vehicle parked at the property at a time. 
(c) Vehicles that are being serviced must be parked on the property and cannot be 
parked in the street at any time. 
2. Massage parlors; /technicians; 
3. Beauty parlors/salons, nail salons and barber shops if employing anyone other than 
the permanent residents of the property; 
4. Animal grooming salons and boarding kennels; 
5.  Body piercing/body art/tattoo art;. 
6. Massage Therapy if employing anyone other than the permanent residents of the 
property. 
k. Specific Allowances. 
1. Mobile Service Providers Permitted at Client Residences. Certain businesses that 
involve providing services at a client’s home are permitted to operate at the client’s 
residence and are not subject to home occupation regulations at that location 
provided they meet all other regulations of this section and applicable local, state, 
and federal laws. Examples include house -call veterinarians, mobile massage 
therapists, mobile pet groomers, and similar providers. 
Page 3 of 3 
 
2. Office-Only Use for Off-Site Businesses. A business that is not typically permitted 
to operate as a home occupation may be allowed if the home is used exclusively for 
office-related functions and no clients, customers, employees, or business activities 
take place at the home provided they meet all other regulations of this section and 
applicable local, state, and federal laws. Examples include administrative work, 
scheduling, bookkeeping, or storage of vehicles or materials related to businesses 
that operate off site like food trucks, lawn care businesses, snow removal services, 
etc.  
 
Section 6.  Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any of the remaining 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
 Section 7.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
 
(SEAL) 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
PLTA-25-3   April 21, 2025 
Planning and Development Office 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282   (Fax) 307-637-6366 
 
 
 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION  
APRIL 21, 2025 
STAFF REPORT  
 
REQUEST:  A Text Amendment amending the Unified Development Code Section 1.4.3, 1.4.4.e, 
and 5.7.2. 
 
CASE NUMBER:  PLTA-25-3 
PREPARED BY: Connor White, Planner II, Planning and Development Department 
 
 
RECOMMENDED MOTION:  
 
Move to recommend the Governing Body approve  text amendments to the Unified Development Code 
Sections 1.4.3, 1.4.4.e, and 5.7.2 as outlined in  this staff report and recommended by staff , noting the 
amendments meet the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
 
BACKGROUND: 
 
The City’s Unified Development Code (UDC) was adopted by the Governing Body on January 23, 2012, by 
Ordinance Number 3943 with an effective  date of April 30, 2012.  The Unified Development Code is the 
regulatory document carrying out the vision of PlanCheyenne and is reviewed annually pursuant to UDC 
1.1.7 [Annual Review Requirement] to determine if any particular standard or regulation is timely, 
relevant and adequately addresses current market conditions. In addition to the annual review, the 
Planning and Development Director and City Engineer are authorized under UDC 2.4.1.b.3 to bring 
forward text amendments on their own initiative.  
 
The proposed text amendments  are to the Home Occupation requirements, the addition of two 
definitions and amending a current use within the UDC. The changes to the Home Occupation regulations 
are from public requests to allow different uses as home occupation, specifically Massage Therapy and 
solons / beauty parlors. This public request was brought forward during the discussion on the annual 
review and was deemed an appropriate section of code to modify. While modifying the Home Occupation 
section of code, Staff would also like to clarify certain practices that are currently ambiguous in the code 
as written. 
 
During the annual review process in 2024 there was a public request to allow Massage Therapy as a home 
occupation. Currently in the UDC it prohibits Massage Parlors / technicians. There are no current 
definitions within the UDC for parlors or for therapy. Staff researched the differences between the two 
and created definitions for each use as they are different. Therapy  often requires training, licensing and 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Planning and Development Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282 (Fax) 307-637-6366 
PLTA-25-3   April 21, 2025 
certifications, whereas parlors do not. Massage Therapy is also considered a medical service that aims to 
address heath concerns. Staff believes that massage therapy can be a home occupation as long as only 
the permanent resident is the one employed at the location.   
 
During the annual review process this year, 2025, there was a request from the public to allow beauty 
parlors or salons as home occupations. Currently the UDC prohibits them from being home occupations. 
Staff’s review is that these types of home occupations can be possible if the permanent resident or current 
resident of the home is the sole operator. These would be very small scale with maybe a single chair and 
would allow someone who is just starting up to op erate out of their home until they can move int o a 
commercial space. It could also allow for someone to run this use as a side business where they only 
operate a few days of the week.  
 
Certain sections of the current Home Occupation code ha ve some ambiguity which Staff would like to 
clarify with this edit: 
- Exterior storage: Strictly speaking, exterior storage as written could be interpreted to prevent 
business-oriented vehicles from being parked in a driveway on the property. Proposed edits 
would clarify that vehicles may be stored externally, but that they must be on the property. 
- Signage: Typically, signage for residential properties is expected to be non -illuminated. This is 
specifically required with this code amendment. 
- Fee payment: Home occupations have an application fee set by Resolution. Adding a mention of 
the fee to this section helps set expectations for anyone who is just reviewing this section of code. 
- Automobile cleaning and detailing: The UDC definition of Automobile Repair  includes 
maintenance and conditioning of vehicles, and since there is no specific use for cleaning vehicles 
in the UDC, Staff has included cleaning in the Automobile Repair category. The definitions section 
and the use table do not match (“Automobile Service Repair” and “Automobile Repair”). The Home 
Occupation section uses similar, but not identical language “ Auto body or mechanical repair, to 
include any modification, assembly or painting of motor vehicles and repair of internal combustion 
engines”. This has led to confusion regarding the use of a property for detailing and cleaning of 
motor vehicles. Staff proposes the following clarifications: 
o Changing the language in the definitions section to match the use table and specifically 
including cleaning, detailing, and repair of any internal combustion engine 
o Changing the language in the Home Occupations section to match the use table and the 
definition 
o Clarifying that detailing and cleaning are allowed under certain limitations. 
Staff would note that the development office has received complaints from neighbors that 
cleaning/detailing businesses should not be allowed as Home Occupations, and has also received 
concerns from those types of businesses that they should be allowed as home occupations. Staff 
has prepared this ordinance to allow the business with some specific limitations. 
- Off-site services: Staff has generally been allowing businesses which perform work off- site as 
home occupations as long as they meet materials storage requirements (such as a mobile pet 
grooming business). This code amendment proposes codifying this allowance. 
 
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS: 
Amend UDC Section 1.4.3, Defined Terms, to add Massage Parlor and Massage Therapy. 
 
Massage Parlor. A business establishment where massage services are provided which does not meet the 
definition of Massage Therapy.  
 
PLTA-25-3   April 21, 2025 
Massage Therapy. A medical service that emphasizes the therapeutic benefits of massage, aiming to 
address specific health concerns and practiced by a massage therapist, who typically undergoes extensive 
training and holds a license to practice.    
 
Amend UDC Section 1.4.4.e, specifically Automobile Repair.  
 
Automobile Service Repair. A Commercial use engaged in the repair, maintenance, or condition, 
detailing, or cleaning of motor vehicles and including the accessory sales of lubricants, parts, or 
accessories. Services also include any modification, assembly or painting of motor vehicles and repair of 
internal combustion engines. 
 
Amend UDC Section 5.7.2, Home Occupations:  
 
5.7.2 Home Occupations 
In districts where home occupations are allowed, they shall meet the following standards in addition to all 
other lot and building standards for the district. 
a. Home occupations include, but are not limited to, arts and crafts-making, tailoring or seamstress 
services, one or two person professional offices (medical, insurance, law, etc.), music instruction 
and wholesale/catalogue sales. 
b. Home occupations are intended to allow limited business activity from the home but shall not 
alter the character of the neighborhood. 
c. Additional off-street parking may be required for the home occupation business if more than 
three clients per day are expected to visit the business or if vehicles associated with the business 
are stored at the place of the home occupation. No additional parking spaces shall be provided in 
the front yard setback (or within the side yard setback if the property is a corner lot). Where 
needed additional parking would alter the character of the neighborhood the home occupation 
shall be prohibited. 
d. There shall be no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare noticeable at or 
beyond the property line. 
e. No exterior storage of materials or equipment is permitted. No storage of vehicles associated 
with the business may be in the public right-of-way. 
f. Signage will be limited to one non-illuminated sign not more than three square feet in area per 
home. 
g. No retail sales are permitted from the site other than incidental sales related to services provided.  
h. Not more than one employee or co-worker other than the permanent resident(s) can work from 
on the site. 
i. An “in-home” business operating from a residential dwelling within shall be registered in the 
home occupation data base, administered through the City Planning and Development 
Department and all applicable registration fees shall be paid. 
j. Specific Exclusions. The following businesses shall not be allowed as home occupations: 
1. Auto body or mechanical repair, to include any modification, assembly or painting of 
motor vehicles and repair of internal combustion engines. Automobile Service Repair, 
however automobile detailing and/or cleaning shall be allowed as a home occupation 
with the following additional restrictions: 
i. No more than three customers per day. 
ii. No more than 1 customer vehicle parked at the property at a time. 
iii. Vehicles that are being serviced must be parked on the property and cannot be 
parked in the street at any time. 
2. Massage parlors/technicians;  
3. Beauty parlors/salons, nail salons and barber shops if employing anyone other than the 
permanent residents of the property; 
4. Animal grooming salons and boarding kennels; 
5. Body piercing/body art/tattoo art. 
6. Massage Therapy if employing anyone other than the permanent residents of the 
property; 
PLTA-25-3   April 21, 2025 
k. Specific Allowances.  
1. Mobile Service Providers Permitted at Client Residences. Certain businesses that involve 
providing services at a client’s home are permitted to operate at the client’s residence 
and are not subject to home occupation regulations at that location provided they meet 
all other regulations of this section and applicable local, state, and federal laws. 
Examples include house-call veterinarians, mobile massage therapists, mobile pet 
groomers, and similar providers. 
2. Office-Only Use for Off-Site Businesses. A business that is not typically permitted to 
operate as a home occupation may be allowed if the home is used exclusively for office-
related functions and no clients, customers, employees, or business activities take place 
at the home provided they meet all other regulations of this section and applicable local, 
state, and federal laws. Examples include administrative work, scheduling, bookkeeping, 
or storage of vehicles or materials related to businesses that operate off site like food 
trucks, lawn care businesses, snow removal services, etc.  
 
REVIEW CRITERIA: 
 
Review of a UDC text amendment shall be measured by the following three (3) criteria of Section 2.4.1.d: 
 
1. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:  
“The amendment is in accordance with general goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan, or 
is necessary to address an emerging issue not anticipated in the Comprehensive Plan and is not 
inconsistent with the plan.” 
 
This proposed text amendment is necessary to address an issue not anticipated in the 
Comprehensive Plan when the Unified Development Code (UDC) was adopted.  There are more 
people looking at starting small businesses out of their homes to help support them. Some of 
these business may have been allowed back in the day, but then were prohibited with the 
adoption of the UDC. This amendment would allow for more typ es of home occupations in a 
limited capacity. 
  
2. STATE STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS:  
The amendment is consistent with the Wyoming Statutes, and specifically the Municipal Planning 
and Zoning statutes. The following Articles are all listed verbatim from Wyoming State Statute. 
 
WYO 15-1-601. The governing body of any city or town, by ordinance, may: 
 
(b) The governing body may divide the city or town into districts of such 
number, shape and area as it deems necessary, and within those districts 
it may regulate and restrict the erection, construction, reconstruction, 
alteration, repair or use of buildings, structures or land. 
 
Assessment: This amendment proposes allowing additional uses as home occupations and 
defining specific uses.  
 
3. HEALTH, SAFETY, AND PUBLIC WELFARE:  
“The amendment promotes the general health, safety and public welfare.” 
 
This amendment allows for additional uses as home occupations which have been requested by 
the public. It will allow for more small business to help those just starting out or for those doing 
them on the side to support their family or themselves.   
PLTA-25-3   April 21, 2025 
 
 
CONCLUSION:  
 
Staff concludes that this text amendment meets the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d. 
 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:  
 
Staff recommends approval of text amendments to the Unified Development Code Sections 1.4.3, 1.4.4.e, 
5.7.2 as outlined in this staff report and recommended by staff, noting the amendments meet the review 
criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
 
 
 