RESOLUTION NO. __________ 
 
ENTITLED: "A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE CHEYENNE BOARD OF 
PUBLIC UTILITIES TO EXECUTE A GRANT AGREEMENT WITH THE 
WYOMING OFFICE OF HOMELAND SECURITY FOR FEDERAL 
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY BUILDING RESILIENT 
INFRASTRUCTURE AND COMMUNITIES FUNDING AND TO 
AUTHORIZE THE DIRECTOR OF THE BOARD TO EXECUTE ALL 
RELATED DOCUMENTS." 
 
WHEREAS, Wyoming Statute §§ 15-7-401 through 15-7-412 provides for cities or towns 
to establish  a Board of Public Utilities (BOPU ) to manage, operate, maintain, and control 
municipal waterworks, sanitary sewer system and sewage disposal plants; 
 
WHEREAS, Cheyenne City Code, Section 2.68.010, establishes that BOPU has exclusive 
authority to manage, operate, maintain and control the Cheyenne Municipal Waterworks, Sanitary 
Sewage System and Sewage Disposal Plants of the City and to make all rules and regulations 
necessary for the safe, economical and efficient operation and maintenance of the above facilities; 
 
WHEREAS, BOPU has been awarded a grant pursuant to an agreement with the Wyoming 
Office of Homeland Security through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Federal 
Emergency Management Agency Fiscal Year 2023 Building Resilient Infrastructure and 
Communities (BRIC Grant); 
 
WHEREAS, the BRIC Grant will allow BOPU to complete a drought mitigation alternative 
analysis (Project); 
 
WHEREAS, the Project cost estimate for analysis and other administrative costs is 
$946,575.00, which includes engineering, consulting and miscellaneous costs; 
 
WHEREAS, the Project meets the criteria and has been awarded a grant in the amount of 
$721,200.00; 
 
WHEREAS, BOPU has secured $88,587.19 from the Governor’s Infrastructure Matching 
Funds towards the Project that will serve as matching funds; 
 
WHEREAS, BOPU has budgeted $136,787.81 towards the Project that will serve as 
matching funds; 
 
WHEREAS, the awarded BRIC Grant  funds shall only be used to cover costs incurred 
during the period beginning on January 16, 2025, and ending on December 15, 2027; and 
 
WHEREAS, BOPU recognizes that the Project is necessary and that it is essential to ensure 
reliable drinking water delivery. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY 
OF CHEYENNE, WYOMING, that an agreement be signed between the City of Cheyenne Board 
of Public Utilities and Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a grant through the U.S. 
Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency Fiscal Year 2023 
Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities for an amount not to exceed $721,200.00 for 
project costs; and 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Director of the Board of Public Utilities is hereby 
designated to be the authorized representative of the City of Cheyenne to act on behalf of the City 
of Cheyenne in all matters related to this agreement and related documents, including any 
amendments to the Grant Agreement.  
 
 
 
PRESENTED, READ AND ADOPTED THIS _______ DAY OF __________________, 
2025. 
 
 
__________________________________________  
Patrick Collins, Mayor 
 
(SEAL)  
 
 
ATTEST:  
 
____________________________________  
Kylie Soden, City Clerk 
 











Subapplicant information
Name of federal agency FEMA
Type of submission Applica
tion
CHEYENNE CELTIC MUSICAL ARTS FESTIVAL
2416 SNYDER AVE
CHEYENNE, WY 82001 United States
Subapplicant type Local Government
Is the subapplicant subject to review by Executive Order 12372
Process?
No - Not covered
Is the subapplicant delinquent on any federal debt? No
State UEI-EFT DUNS # EIN #
WY QMBKWWLCR
T J4 153925201 836000043
Contact information
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
1 of 16
Attachment A - Subgrant Project Scoping Application
Subrecipient Authorized Representative (SAR)
Point(s ) of contact
Brad Bowen
 
bbowen@cheyennebopu.org
Primary phone   Mailing address
  
 
Billie Knif ong
Accounting Supervisor
 
bknifong@cheyennebopu.org
Primary phone
3076376467
Work
Additional phones
3076376467
Work
Mailing address
2416 Snyder Ave.
Cheyenne WY 82001
Fax  
Community
Please pr
ovide the following information. If the Congressional district number for your community does not display correctly, please
contact your State NFIP coordinator.
Add Communities
Please find the c
ommunity(ies) that will benefit from this mitigation activity by clicking on the Find communities button. If needed,
modify the Congressional District number for each community by entering the updated number under the U.S. Congressional District
column for that community. When finished, click the Continue button. NOTE: You should also notify your State NFIP coordinator so that
the updated U.S. Congressional District number can be updated in the Community Information System (CIS) database.
Please provide any additional comments below (optional). The Board of Public Utilities (BOPU) provides sewer services for
residential, commercial, and industrial customers within a service
area boundary that covers approximately 130 square miles (see
Figure 1 attached). BOPU’s service area includes all citizens of
Cheyenne, military personnel stationed at the Frances E. Warren
Community name County code CID number CRS c ommunity CRS rating
U.S.
Congressional
District
 
CHEYENNE, CITY OF 21 560030 Y 7 1,2
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
2 of 16
Air Force Base, residents in South Cheyenne Water and Sewer
District, as well as some rural customers in Laramie County. This
proposed project will provide community resiliency by ensuring
uninterrupted drinking water supply for customers during
drought. According to current data from the United States Census
Bureau, the median household income in Cheyenne is $74,989
with 8.5% living in poverty. Four Justice 40 census tracts in BOPU’s
service area that aﬀect a sub-population of 20,642; see figure
"BOPU Service Area Justice 40 Census Tracts" and associated
features files that were returned from a query of the Grant Equity
Threshold Tool. Historical drought conditions in Wyoming and
climate data associated with drought in the hydrologic basins that
supply Cheyenne's water are attached.
Attachments
Filename Dat e
uploaded Uploaded by Label Description Ac tion
FEMA CRCI Data for BOPU Service
Area.png
01/29/2024 sbar
gsten@cheyennebopu.org Community
At tachments
CRCI data in
BOPU's
service area
from a query
of FEMA's
Resilience
Analysis and
Planning
Tool
Figure 1. City of Cheyenne.jpg 01/09/2024 sbar gsten@cheyennebopu.org Community
At
tachments
Figure 1
shows the
municipal
boundary of
Cheyenne
and BOPU's
service area
features CEJST .csv 01/11/2024 sbar gsten@cheyennebopu.org Community
At
tachments
CEJST
features for
BOPU's
service area
from a query
of the Grant
Equity
Threshold
BOPU Service Area Justice 40 Census
Tracts.png
01/11/2024 sbar
gsten@cheyennebopu.org Community
At tachments
Justice 40
census
tracts in
BOPU's
service area
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
3 of 16
Filename Dat e
uploaded Uploaded by Label Description Ac tion
features CDRZ CRCI.csv 01/11/2024 sbar gsten@cheyennebopu.org Community
At
tachments
CDRZ and
CRCI
fe
atures for
BOPU's
service area
from a query
of the Grant
Equity
Threshold;
Note, the
inventory of
these
fe
atures for
Wyoming is
not yet
complete.
20240123 Climate Data for BOPUs
Hydrologic Basins.pdf
01/23/2024 sbar
gsten@cheyennebopu.org Community
At tachments
NRCS data
query on
January 23,
2024 for
climate data
associated
with BOPU's
hydrologic
basins
20240123 Historical Drought Conditions
in Wyoming.png
01/23/2024 sbar
gsten@cheyennebopu.org Community
At tachments
Historical
drought
conditions
in Wyoming
Mitigation plan
Please provide your plan information below.
Is the Subapplicant entity that will benefit from the proposed
activity covered by the current FEMA approved multi-hazard
mitigation plan in compliance with 44 CFR Part 201?
Yes
Please provide plan detail
Plan name
Wyoming R
egion 7 Hazard
Mitigation Plan 2023 Update
Plan type
Loc
al Multijurisdictional Multi-
Hazard Mitigation Plan
Plan approval date
02/02/2023
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
4 of 16
Please provide any additional comments below (optional). Wyoming Region 7 Hazard Mitigation Plan - 2023 Update,
Appendix B: Laramie County, Section 3.6 Drought (pages B27 -
B29)
Attachments
Proposed activity description
Drought mitigation
Filename Dat e
uploaded Uploaded by Label Description Ac tion
WY Reg 7 HMP - final 20230515.pdf 01/11/2024 sbar gsten@cheyennebopu.org Mitigation Plan
Attachments
No
description
giv
en.
Scope of work
The project Scope of Work (SOW) identifies the eligible activity, describes what will be accomplished and explains how the
mitigation activity will be implemented. The mitigation activity must be described in suﬀicient detail to verify the cost estimate. All
activities for which funding is requested must be identified in the SOW prior to the close of the application period. FEMA has
diﬀerent requirements for project, planning and management cost SOWs.
Subapplication title (include type of activity and location) Drought Mitigation Alternatives Analysis
Activities
Primary activity type Develop or conduct engineering, environmental, feasibility
and/or benefit cost analyses
Secondary activity type (Optional) Activities supporting development of applications
Tertiary activity type (Optional) Conduct meetings, outreach and coordination with
subapplicants and community residents
Geographic areas description City of Cheyenne in Laramie County, Wyoming; Figure 1
(attached) includes Cheyenne municipal boundaries and
BOPU's service area
Community lifelines
Primary community lifeline Food, water, shelter
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
5 of 16
Primary sub-community lifeline Water
Secondary community lifeline (optional)
Hazard sources
Primary hazard source Drought
Secondary hazard source (optional) Infrastructure failure
Tertiary hazard source (optional) Biological incident
How will the mitigation activity be implemented? BOPU will oversee a contractor that conducts the proposed
study and alternatives analysis. Similarly, BOPU will oversee a
contractor to implement the mitigation activity.
What is the scope of work of the proposal? Will it result in a
complete project application for future funding opportunities?
The problem is identifying the most viable solution to
proactively mitigate impacts from drought. The City of
Cheyenne (City) relies on water from three hydrologic basins,
including 7,000 acre-feet per year of water from the Colorado
River system. As pressures on the Colorado River continue to
mount and climate changes persist or worsen, Cheyenne is at
risk of facing impacts of drought in all its water supply basins
and potential loss of junior water rights through Colorado River
curtailment. As a result, BOPU would not be able to meet
current municipal water demand, let alone support growth.
BOPU will develop a study of two drought mitigation activities
that will culminate in an alternatives analysis. BOPU will hire
and oversee a contractor that will conduct an evaluation of
drought and hydraulic conditions as it relates to the hydraulic
basins that supply Cheyenne’s potable water, perform a Benefit-
Cost Analysis, and develop preliminary designs. The selected
drought mitigation alternative will maximize use of existing
water rights held by the City in the Crow Creek watershed. The
outcome of this project will support application for future
funding opportunities. The surface water blending study will
focus on regulatory requirements for water quality and an
appropriate blending ratio with this new source water for
potable water delivered to residential, commercial, and
industrial customers in BOPU’s service area, which includes
Cheyenne, FE Warren Air Force Base, and portions of Laramie
County. Under the Safe Drinking Water Act, specifically the Lead
and Copper Rule, BOPU is required to conduct a corrosion
control treatment study to protect against metals leaching from
distribution, service, and customer piping and fixtures into
drinking water. This new water supply can be delivered to the
treatment plant through existing mains and valves, but only
a er the study is conducted and demonstrated that treated
water will meet EPA standards. If this solution is determined
feasible, the study will also inform design decisions regarding
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
6 of 16
modification of water treatment processes (e.g., disinfection
system) and any infrastructure changes that might be needed.
BOPU has invested 75 hours of staﬀ time for initial water quality
sampling, but a consultant will be needed to complete the
project activities detailed below. • Assess water quality from
Lower North Crow Reservoir, South Crow Reservoir, and Casper
aquifer • Evaluate potential blend ratios for surface water
sources in accordance with Safe Drinking Water Act
requirements and Sherard Water Treatment Plant treatment
processes • Model blended water quality at diﬀerent ratios using
water from Crystal Reservoir, South Crow Reservoir, and Lower
North Crow Reservoir • Identify potential Crystal Reservoir and
Lower North Fork Crow Creek/South Fork Crow Creek/Casper
aquifer blends • Conduct bench-scale blending tests to simulate
incoming raw water quality • Evaluate raw water quality to
identify breakpoint blend ratios • Pilot test treatment of
identified blend ratios • Utilize an existing pilot plant to treat
selected blend ratios with chlorine disinfection, including
evaluation of chlorine gas and sodium hypochlorite processes •
Conduct bench-scale blending tests with water from the pilot
plant and groundwater blend to simulate filtered water quality •
Evaluate finished water quality to determine acceptable blend
ratios • Conduct coupon test on recommended blend ratios •
Utilize the pilot plant (with hypochlorite disinfection and
proposed corrosion control methods) to produce water at the
recommended surface water blend ratios and groundwater
blend to simulate final drinking water quality • Conduct coupon
test on final drinking water quality to simulate interaction with
piping materials • Identify target corrosion control treatment
parameters, such as pH and alkalinity, based on water quality
and existing treatment plant processes • Evaluate final drinking
water quality This alternative would potentially provide an
additional firm yield of 1,000 acre-feet per year, assuming
average hydrologic conditions. Initial data collected suggests
favorable water quality that is suitable for potable treatment
and use. Prior to 2002, this water was a source for potable use.
Another alt
ernative includes expansion of the existing water
reuse distribution system by converting the lakes (i.e.,
Absarraca, Kiwanis, and Sloans) to Class A recycled water. The
lakes are owned by the City and filled with stormwater and raw
water from surface water supplies. Historically, the water in the
lakes has been used for recreation and landscape irrigation. 600
acre-feet of raw water that would otherwise fill the lakes would
be diverted to the water treatment plant and delivered to
Cheyenne to meet potable demand. This solution was
presented in the 2019 Final Report: Reclaimed Water Reuse
Study. BOPU is currently under contract with a consultant for
the first phase of a feasibility study to identify regulatory
requirements, involve stakeholders, and assess potential risks
to human health and the environment associated with
exposures to recycled water in the lakes. Initial activities include
work plan development, regulator outreach, public polling,
water quality sampling, and data evaluation with a budget of
$80,000. Based on the outcome of the first phase, additional
activities (detailed below) may be needed to complete the study
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
7 of 16
and make a feasibility determination whether to proceed with
design and construction. This alternative would potentially save
600 acre-feet per year of water that can be treated for potable
use. Based on initial outreach and data collection, it is looking
favorable. • Collect and analyze samples from the lakes and
recycled water system • Lake bathymetry and flow monitoring •
Lake modeling • Human health and ecological risk assessment,
using data from the lakes and recycled water system • Follow up
with stakeholders and perform additional regulatory review •
Conduct public outreach via interviews, listening session, and
public meeting(s) • Develop informational materials including a
fact sheet, frequently asked questions, and media statement •
Compile a study report with recommendations
Who will manage and complete the mitigation activity? BOPU will manage and complete the mitigation activity through
the assistance of a contractor.
What are you doing to consider other risks in the project area? As a steward of Cheyenne's water rights, BOPU works to protect
water quality and ensure maximum beneficial use of the water
supply. There are ongoing eﬀorts to address other risks in the
project area that aﬀect water supply that includes updates to
aging infrastructure, measures to mitigate flood risk for the
water reclamation facilities, and suﬀicient cybersecurity
measures for the utility.
Is there an estimate for when the mitigation activity will take
place?
Upon completion of this project, BOPU will prepare applications
for any and all applicable funding sources, including FEMA
grants. If funding is awarded, BOPU will initiate the contracting
process as soon as the funding contract is final.
What alternatives will be considered? 1) Surface water blending 2) Lake recycled water conversion or
explore other local storage options 3) Evaluate conveyance
capacity of South Fork Crow Creek, upstream of existing South
Crow Reservoir 4) Expand recycled water system per
recommendations of 2019 HDR report (attached) 4) No action, if
required by FEMA
Do activities being considered align with hazard mitigation
plan?
Yes, these drought mitigation activities will ensure maximum
beneficial use of Cheyenne's existing water supplies and provide
community resiliency to avoid interrupted delivery of safe
drinking water to BOPU's customers during drought.
Additional comments (optional)
Attachments
Filename Dat e
uploaded Uploaded by Label Description Ac tion
20240206 BRIC Eligibility Criteria
BOPU Application 2 of 2.pdf
02/06/2024 sbar
gsten@cheyennebopu.org Scope of Work
Attachments
Crosswalk of
eligibility
criteria fr
om
the notice of
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
8 of 16
Filename Dat e
uploaded Uploaded by Label Description Ac tion
funding
opportunity
as it rela
tes
to this
project.
Lake Water Conversion Study Work
Plan_Cheyenne BOPU_Final
010224.pdf
01/09/2024 sbar
gsten@cheyennebopu.org Scope of Work
Attachments
Lake Water
Conversion
Study Work
Plan,
Chey
enne
Board of
Public
Utilities,
January 2,
2024
BOPU Reuse Final Report-FINAL.pdf 01/16/2024 sbar gsten@cheyennebopu.org Scope of Work
Attachments
Final Report:
Reclaimed
Water Reuse
Study,
Cheyenne
Board of
Public
Utilities,
January 11,
2019
Figure 1. City of Cheyenne.jpg 01/16/2024 sbar gsten@cheyennebopu.org Scope of Work
Attachments
Figure 1;
Cheyenne
municipal
boundary
and BOPU's
service area
20230427 Cheyenne North Crow
evaluation_Final.pdf
01/11/2024 sbar
gsten@cheyennebopu.org Scope of Work
Attachments
Surface
Water
Blending
Study
,
Scope of
Work,
Cheyenne
Board of
Public
Utilities,
April 24,
2023
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
9 of 16
Schedule
Specify the work schedule for the mitig
ation activities.
Add tasks to the schedule
Please include all tasks necessary to implement this mitigation activity; include descriptions and estimated time frames.
Task Name
Surface Water Blending
Study
Start Month
01
Task Dura tion (in
Months)
24 months
Task Description
NO
TE: both studies can be conducted concurrently. • Assess water quality from
Lower North Crow Reservoir and South Crow Reservoir • Evaluate potential
blend ratios for surface water sources in accordance with Safe Drinking Water
Act requirements and Sherard Water Treatment Plant treatment processes •
Model blended water quality at diﬀerent ratios using water from Crystal
Reservoir, South Crow Reservoir, and Lower North Crow Reservoir • Identify
potential Crystal and Lower North Crow/South Crow blends • Conduct bench-
scale blending tests to simulate incoming raw water quality • Evaluate raw water
quality to identify breakpoint blend ratios • Pilot test treatment of identified
blend ratios • Utilize an existing pilot plant to treat selected blend ratios with
chlorine disinfection, including evaluation of chlorine gas and sodium
hypochlorite processes • Conduct bench-scale blending tests with water from
the pilot plant and 15% blend of ground water to simulate filtered water quality
• E
valuate finished water quality to determine acceptable blend ratios • Conduct
coupon test on recommended blend ratios • Utilize the pilot plant (with
hypochlorite disinfection and proposed corrosion control methods) to produce
water at the recommended surface water blend ratios and blend with 15%
ground water to simulate final drinking water quality • Conduct coupon test on
final drinking water quality to simulate interaction with piping materials •
Identify target corrosion control treatment parameters, such as pH and
alkalinity, based on water quality and existing treatment plant processes •
Evaluate final drinking water quality
Task Name
Lake Recycled Water
Conversion Study
Start Month
01
Task Dura tion (in
Months)
18 months
Task Description
NO
TE: both studies can be conducted concurrently.
Task Name
Alternatives Evaluation
Start Month
01
Task Dura tion (in
Months)
6 months
Task Description
Based on out
comes of the proposed studies, conduct a benefit-cost analysis and
determine the most favorable alternative
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
10 of 16
Estimate the total duration of your proposed activities (in months). 30
Proposed pr
oject start and end dates
Start Date 2024-07-01
End Dat
e 2026-12-31
Budget
Budget cost estimate and management cost (optional) should directly link to your scope of work and work schedule. You must add at
least one item(s) greater than $0 for your cost estimate. Once you have added item(s) for your cost estimate, you may then add the
item(s) for management cost (optional). As necessary, please adjust your federal/non-federal cost shares and add the non-federal
funding source(s) you are planning to use this project. Once you have completed this section, please click the Continue button at the
bottom of this page to navigate to the next section.
Add budget cost types and item(s)
Click the Add cost type button below to add cost type cost estimate and then click the Add item(s) button to add the item(s) for the cost
estimate. A er adding items to your cost estimate, you may then select Add cost type button again to add management costs (optional)
and applicable items.
Grand total: $1,147,890.00
Budget type: Non construction
Cost type: Cost estimate $1,147,890.00
Program income (optional)
Cost share
Cost share or matching means the portion of project costs not paid by federal funds.
Proposed federal vs. non-federal funding shares
Hazard mitigation assistance (HMA) funds may be used to pay up to 75% federal share of the eligible activity costs. Building Resilient
Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC), Economically Disadvantaged Rural Communities (EDRCs) and Community Disaster Resilience
Zones (CDRZs) may be eligible for up to 90% federal share. Flood Mitigation Assistance (FMA) and severe repetitive loss (SRL) properties
may be eligible for up to 100% federal share. Repetitive loss (RL) properties may be eligible for up to 90% federal share.
Cost estimate

Is this an Economically Disadvantaged Rural
Community or Community Disaster
Resilience Zone? 
This determines your federal/non-

% Percentage $ Dollar amount
Proposed federal
share
75.00 860917.50
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
11 of 16
Funding source: General Budget 100.00% $286,972.50
Additional comments. Please note that Wyoming has not been fully
evaluated/inventoried with respect to Community Disaster
Resilience Zones.
Attachments
federal share ratio.
No Proposed non-
federal share
25.00 286972.50
Based on to
tal budget
cost: $1,147,890.00
Non-federal funding sources here
That portion of the total costs of the program provided by the non-federal entity in the form of in-kind donations or cash match received
from third parties or contributed by the agency. In-kind contributions must be provided and cash expended during the project period
along with federal funds to satisfy the matching requirements.
Funding source % Non-federal
share by source Funding amount

Filename Dat e
uploaded Uploaded by Label Description Ac tion
20231208 Estimated Costs for Blending
Study.pdf
01/11/2024 sbar
gsten@cheyennebopu.org Budget Attachments No
description
giv
en.
20240129 Estimated Costs for Lake
Study.pdf
01/29/2024 sbar
gsten@cheyennebopu.org Budget Attachments No
description
giv
en.
Cost-eﬀectiveness
How was cost-eﬀectiveness determined for this project?
Please explain why this project is not applicable. This project is comprised of two studies and an alternatives
analysis. The costs to implement drought mitigation cannot be
estimated until this project is complete. Therefore, benefit-cost
analysis will be completed a er this project is complete.
Please provide any additional comments below (optional).
Not applicable

Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
12 of 16
Attachments
Filename Dat e uploaded Uploaded by Label Description Ac tion
Evaluation
Is the applicant participating in the Community Rating System
(CRS)?
Yes
Select rating. 7
Is the applicant a Cooperating Technical Partner (CTP)? Yes
Was this application generated from a previous FEMA HMA
Advance Assistance or Project Scoping award or any other federal
grant award, or the subapplicant is a past recipient of Building
Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) non-financial
Direct Technical Assistance?
No
Has the applicant adop
ted building codes consistent with the
international codes?
Yes
Year of building code 2021
Please pr
ovide the building code. International Residential, Building, and Fire Codes
Have the applicant's building codes been assessed on the Building
Code Eﬀectiveness Grading Schedule (BCEGS)?
Yes
Select rating. 5
Describe involvement of partners to enhance the mitigation
activity outcome.
There are no partners identified for this proposed project.
Additional comments (optional)
Attachments
Filename Dat e
uploaded Uploaded by Label Description Ac tion
60677 Cheyenne WY Final Letter
12R.pdf
01/09/2024 sbar
gsten@cheyennebopu.org Evaluation
Attachments
Building
Code
Eﬀectiveness
Grading
Schedule
Result
s
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
13 of 16
1 comment, 7 attachments
1 comment, 1 attachment
0 comments, 5 attachments
1 comment, 2 attachments
0 comments, 0 attachments
0 comments, 1 attachment
Comments & attachments
Community
Mitiga
tion plan
Scope of work
Budget
Cost-eﬀectiveness
Evaluation






Assurances and certifications
Signed by SAR:
Brad Bowen on 02/07/2024

SF-424B: Assurances - Non-Construction Programs
OMB Number
: 4040-0007
Expiration Date: 02/28/2025
Certain of these assurances may not be applicable to your project or program. If you have any questions, please contact the
awarding agency. Further, certain Federal awarding agencies may require applicants to certify to additional assurances. If such is
the case, you will be notified.
As the duly authorized representative of the applicant, I certify that the applicant:
1. Has the legal authority to apply for Federal assistance and the institutional, managerial and financial capability (including
funds suﬀicient to pay the non-Federal share of project cost) to ensure proper planning, management and completion of the
project described in this application.
2. Will give the awarding agency, the Comptroller General of the United States and, if appropriate, the State, through any
authorized representative, access to and the right to examine all records, books, papers, or documents related to the award;
and will establish a proper accounting system in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards or agency
directives.
3. Will establish safeguards to prohibit employees from using their positions for a purpose that constitutes or presents the
appearance of personal or organizational conflict of interest, or personal gain.
4. Will initiate and complete the work within the applicable time frame a er receipt of approval of the awarding agency.
5. Will comply with the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. §§4728-4763) relating to prescribed standards for
merit systems for programs funded under one of the 19 statutes or regulations specified in Appendix A of OPM's Standards
for a Merit System of Personnel Administration (5 C.F.R. 900, Subpart F).
6. Will comply with all Federal statutes relating to nondiscrimination. These include but are not limited to: (a) Title VI of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 (P .L. 88-352) which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin; (b) Title IX of
the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (20 U.S.C.§§1681-1683, and 1685-1686), which prohibits discrimination on
the basis of sex; (c) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. §794), which prohibits discrimination
OMB number: 4040-0007, E
xpiration date: 02/28/2025 View burden statement
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
14 of 16
on the basis of handicaps; (d) the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. §§6101-6107), which prohibits
discrimination on the basis of age; (e) the Drug Abuse Oﬀice and Treatment Act of 1972 (P .L. 92-255), as amended, relating to
nondiscrimination on the basis of drug abuse; (f) the Comprehensive Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment
and Rehabilitation Act of 1970 (P .L. 91-616), as amended, relating to nondiscrimination on the basis of alcohol abuse or
alcoholism; (g) §§523 and 527 of the Public Health Service Act of 1912 (42 U.S.C. §§290 dd-3 and 290 ee- 3), as amended,
relating to confidentiality of alcohol and drug abuse patient records; (h) Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C.
§§3601 et seq.), as amended, relating to nondiscrimination in the sale, rental or financing of housing; any other
nondiscrimination provisions in the specific statute(s) under which application for Federal assistance is being made; and, (j)
the requirements of any other nondiscrimination statute(s) which may apply to the application.
7. Will comply, or has already complied, with the requirements of Titles II and III of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real
Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (P .L. 91-646) which provide for fair and equitable treatment of persons displaced or
whose property is acquired as a result of Federal or federally-assisted programs. These requirements apply to all interests in
real property acquired for project purposes regardless of Federal participation in purchases.
8. Will comply, as applicable, with provisions of the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. §§1501-1508 and 7324-7328) which limit the political
activities of employees whose principal employment activities are funded in whole or in part with Federal funds.
9. Will comply, as applicable, with the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. §§276a to 276a-7), the Copeland Act (40
U.S.C. §276c and 18 U.S.C. §874), and the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. §§327-333), regarding
labor standards for federally-assisted construction subagreements.
10. Will comply, if applicable, with flood insurance purchase requirements of Section 102(a) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act
of 1973 (P .L. 93-234) which requires recipients in a special flood hazard area to participate in the program and to purchase
flood insurance if the total cost of insurable construction and acquisition is $10,000 or more.
11. Will comply with environmental standards which may be prescribed pursuant to the following: (a) institution of
environmental quality control measures under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (P .L. 91-190) and Executive
Order (EO) 11514; (b) notification of violating facilities pursuant to EO 11738; (c) protection of wetlands pursuant to EO
11990; (d) evaluation of flood hazards in floodplains in accordance with EO 11988; (e) assurance of project consistency with
the approved State management program developed under the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. §§1451 et
seq.); (f) conformity of Federal actions to State (Clean Air) Implementation Plans under Section 176(c) of the Clean Air Act of
1955, as amended (42 U.S.C. §§7401 et seq.); (g) protection of underground sources of drinking water under the Safe
Drinking Water Act of 1974, as amended (P .L. 93-523); and, (h) protection of endangered species under the Endangered
Species Act of 1973, as amended (P .L. 93-205).
12. Will comply with the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968 (16 U.S.C. §§1271 et seq.) related to protecting components or
potential components of the national wild and scenic rivers system.
13. Will assist the awarding agency in assuring compliance with Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as
amended (16 U.S.C. §470), EO 11593 (identification and protection of historic properties), and the Archaeological and
Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. §§469a-1 et seq.).
14. Will comply with P .L. 93-348 regarding the protection of human subjects involved in research, development, and related
activities supported by this award of assistance.
15. Will comply with the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act of 1966 (P .L. 89-544, as amended, 7 U.S.C. §§2131 et seq.) pertaining to
the care, handling, and treatment of warm blooded animals held for research, teaching, or other activities supported by this
award of assistance.
16. Will comply with the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. §§4801 et seq.) which prohibits the use of lead-
based paint in construction or rehabilitation of residence structures.
17. Will cause to be performed the required financial and compliance audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act
Amendments of 1996 and OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations. "
18. Will comply with all applicable requirements of all other Federal laws, executive orders, regulations, and policies governing
this program.
19. Will comply with the requirements of Section 106(g) of the Traﬀicking Victims Protection Act (TVPA) of 2000, as amended (22
U.S.C. 7104) which prohibits grant award recipients or a sub-recipient from (1) Engaging in severe forms of traﬀicking in
persons during the period of time that the award is in eﬀect (2) Procuring a commercial sex act during the period of time that
the award is in eﬀect or (3) Using forced labor in the performance of the award or subawards under the award.
SF-LLL: Disclosure of Lobbying Activities
OMB number: 4040-0013, E
xpiration date: 02/28/2025 View burden statement
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
15 of 16
Content:
Complete this form to disclose lobbying activities pursuant to 31 U.S.C.1352
OMB Number: 4040-0013
Expiration Date: 02/28/2025
The applicant is not currently required to submit the SF-LLL.
Attachment A to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
16 of 16
Article
1
Assurances, Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, Representations,
and Certiﬁcations
Article
2
General Acknowledgements and Assurances
Article
3
Acknowledgement of Federal Funding from DHS
Article
4
Activities Conducted Abroad
Article
5
Age Discrimination Act of 1975
Article
6
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
Article
7
Best Practices for Collection and Use of Personally Identi ﬁable Information
Article
8
Civil Rights Act of 1964 – Title VI
Article
9
Civil Rights Act of 1968
Article
10
Copyright
Article
11
Debarment and Suspension
Article
12
Drug-Free Workplace Regulations
Article
13
Duplicative
Costs
Article
14
Education
Amendments of 1972 (Equal Opportunity in Education Act) – Title IX
Article
15
E.O. 14074 – Advancing E ﬀective, Accountable Policing and Criminal Justice
Practices to Enhance Public Trust and Public Safety
Article
16
Energy
Policy and Conservation Act
Article
17
False Claims
Act and Program Fraud Civil Remedies
Article
18
Federal Debt
Status
Article
19
Federal Leadership
on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving
Article
20
Fly America Act of
1974
Article
21
Hotel and Motel Fire
Safety Act of 1990
Article
22
John
S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2019
Article
23
Limited English Proﬁciency (Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI)
Article
24
Lobbying Prohibitions
Article
25
National
Environmental Policy Act
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Table of Contents
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
1 of 14
Article
26
Nondiscrimination in Matters Pertaining to Faith-Based Organizations
Article
27
Non-Supplanting Requirement
Article
28
Notice of Funding Opportunity Requirements
Article
29
Patents and Intellectual Property Rights
Article
30
Procurement of Recovered Materials
Article
31
Rehabilitation Act of 1973
Article
32
Reporting of Matters Related to Recipient Integrity and Performance
Article
33
Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation
Article
34
Required Use of American Iron, Steel, Manufactured Products, and
Construction Materials
Article
35
SAFECOM
Article
36
Terrorist Financing
Article
37
Traﬃcking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (TVPA)
Article
38
Universal Identiﬁer and System of Award Management
Article
39
USA PATRIOT Act of 2001
Article
40
Use of DHS Seal, Logo and Flags
Article
41
Whistleblower Protection Act
Article
42
Applicability of DHS Standard Terms and Conditions to Tribes
Article
43
Acceptance of Post Award Changes
Article
44
Disposition of Equipment Acquired Under the Federal Award
Article
45
Prior Approval for Modiﬁcation of Approved Budget
Article
46
Indirect Cost Rate
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
2 of 14
Article 1 Assurances, Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles,
Representations, and Certiﬁcations
I. Recipients must complete either the Oﬃce of Management and Budget
(OMB) Standard Form 424B Assurances – Non- Construction Programs, or
OMB Standard Form 424D Assurances – Construction Programs, as
applicable. Certain assurances in these documents may not be applicable to
your program and the DHS ﬁnancial assistance oﬃce (DHS FAO) may require
applicants to certify additional assurances. Applicants are required to ﬁll out
the assurances as instructed by the federal awarding agency.
Article 2 General Acknowledgements and Assurances
Recipients are required to follow the applicable provisions of the Uniform
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for
Federal Awards in eﬀect as of the federal award date and located at 2 C.F.R.
Part 200 and adopted by DHS at 2 C.F.R. § 3002.10. All recipients and
subrecipients must acknowledge and agree to provide DHS access to
records, accounts, documents, information, facilities, and staﬀ pursuant to 2
C.F.R. § 200.337. I. Recipients must cooperate with any DHS compliance
reviews or compliance investigations. II. Recipients must give DHS access to
examine and copy records, accounts, and other documents and sources of
information related to the federal ﬁnancial assistance award and permit
access to facilities and personnel. III. Recipients must submit timely,
complete, and accurate reports to the appropriate DHS oﬃcials and maintain
appropriate backup documentation to support the reports. IV. Recipients
must comply with all other special reporting, data collection, and evaluation
requirements required by law, federal regulation, Notice of Funding
Opportunity, federal award speciﬁc terms and conditions, and/or federal
awarding agency program guidance. V. Recipients must complete the DHS
Civil Rights Evaluation Tool within thirty (30) days of receiving the Notice of
Award for the ﬁrst award under which this term applies. Recipients of multiple
federal awards from DHS should only submit one completed tool for their
organization, not per federal award. After the initial submission, recipients are
required to complete the tool once every two (2) years if they have an active
federal award, not every time a federal award is made. Recipients must
submit the completed tool, including supporting materials, to
CivilRightsEvaluation@hq.dhs.gov. This tool clariﬁes the civil rights
obligations and related reporting requirements contained in these DHS
Standard Terms and Conditions. Subrecipients are not required to complete
and submit this tool to DHS. The evaluation tool can be found at
https://www.dhs.gov/publication/dhs- civil-rights-evaluation-tool. DHS Civil
Rights Evaluation Tool | Homeland Security. The DHS Oﬃce for Civil Rights
and Civil Liberties will consider, in its discretion, granting an extension to the
30-day deadline if the recipient identiﬁes steps and a timeline for completing
the tool. Recipients must request extensions by emailing the request to
CivilRightsEvaluation@hq.dhs.gov prior to expiration of the 30-day deadline.
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
3 of 14
Article 3 Acknowledgement of Federal Funding from DHS
Recipients must acknowledge their use of federal award funding when
issuing statements, press releases, requests for proposal, bid invitations, and
other documents describing projects or programs funded in whole or in part
with federal award funds.
Article 4 Activities Conducted Abroad
Recipients must coordinate with appropriate government authorities when
performing project activities outside the United States obtain all appropriate
licenses, permits, or approvals.
Article 5 Age Discrimination Act of 1975
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the Age Discrimination Act
of 1975, Pub. L. No. 94-135 (codiﬁed as amended at 42 U.S.C. § 6101 et
seq.), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age in any program or
activity receiving federal ﬁnancial assistance.
Article 6 Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Titles I, II, and III of the
Americans with Disabilities Act, Pub. L. No. 101-336 (1990) (codiﬁed as
amended at 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101– 12213), which prohibits recipients from
discriminating on the basis of disability in the operation of public entities,
public and private transportation systems, places of public accommodation,
and certain testing entities.
Article 7 Best Practices for Collection and Use of Personally Identiﬁable
Information
Recipients who collect personally identiﬁable information (PII) as part of
carrying out the scope of work under a federal award are required to have a
publicly available privacy policy that describes standards on the usage and
maintenance of the PII they collect. DHS deﬁnes PII as any information that
permits the identity of an individual to be directly or indirectly inferred,
including any information that is linked or linkable to that individual.
Recipients may also ﬁnd the DHS Privacy Impact Assessments: Privacy
Guidance and Privacy Template as useful resources respectively.
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
4 of 14
Article 8 Civil Rights Act of 1964 – Title VI
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, Pub. L. No. 88-352 (codiﬁed as amended at 42 U.S.C. § 2000d
et seq.), which provides that no person in the United States will, on the
grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be
denied the beneﬁts of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or
activity receiving federal ﬁnancial assistance. DHS implementing regulations
for the Act are found at 6 C.F.R. Part 21. Recipients of an award from the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) must also comply with
FEMA
’s implementing regulations at 44 C.F.R. Part 7.
Article 9 Civil Rights Act of 1968
Recipients must comply with Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, Pub. L.
No. 90-284 (codiﬁed as amended at 42 U.S.C. § 3601 et seq.) which
prohibits recipients from discriminating in the sale, rental, ﬁnancing, and
advertising of dwellings, or in the provision of services in connection.
therewith, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, disability,
familial status, and sex, as implemented by the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development at 24 C.F.R. Part 100. The prohibition on disability
discrimination includes the requirement that new multifamily housing with four
or more dwelling units
— i.e., the public and common use areas and individual
apartment units (all units in buildings with elevators and ground-ﬂoor units in
buildings without elevators)—be designed and constructed with certain
accessible features. (See 24 C.F.R. Part 100, Subpart D.)
Article 10 Copyright
Recipients must aﬃx the applicable copyright notices of 17 U.S.C. §§ 401 or
402 to any work ﬁrst produced under federal awards and also include an
acknowledgement that the work was produced under a federal award
(including the federal award number and federal awarding agency). As
detailed in 2 C.F.R. § 200.315, a federal awarding agency reserves a royalty-
free, nonexclusive, and irrevocable right to reproduce, publish, or otherwise
use the work for federal purposes and to authorize others to do so.
Article 11 Debarment and Suspension
Recipients must comply with the non-procurement debarment and
suspension regulations implementing Executive Orders (E.O.) 12549 and
12689 set forth at 2 C.F.R. Part 180 as implemented by DHS at 2 C.F.R. Part
3000. These regulations prohibit recipients from entering into covered
transactions (such as subawards and contracts) with certain parties that are
debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded from or ineligible for
participation in federal assistance programs or activities.
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
5 of 14
Article 12 Drug-Free Workplace Regulations
Recipients must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in Subpart B
(or Subpart C, if the recipient is an individual) of 2 C.F.R. Part 3001, which
adopts the Government- wide implementation (2 C.F.R. Part 182) of the
Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. §§ 8101-8106).
Article 13 Duplicative Costs
Recipients are prohibited from charging any cost to this federal award that will
be included as a cost or used to meet cost sharing or matching requirements
of any other federal award in either the current or a prior budget period. (See
2 C.F.R. § 200.403(f)). However, recipients may shift costs that are allowable
under two or more federal awards where otherwise permitted by federal
statutes, regulations, or the federal ﬁnancial assistance award terms and
conditions.
Article 14 Education Amendments of 1972 (Equal Opportunity in Education Act)
–
 Title IX
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Title IX of the Education
Amendments of 1972, Pub. L. No. 92-318 (codiﬁed as amended at 20 U.S.C.
§ 1681 et seq.), which provide that no person in the United States will, on the
basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the beneﬁts of, or
be subjected to discrimination under any educational program or activity
receiving federal ﬁnancial assistance. DHS implementing regulations are
codiﬁed at 6 C.F.R. Part 17. Recipients of an award from the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) must also comply with FEMA’s
implementing regulations at 44 C.F.R. Part 19.
Article 15 E.O. 14074 – Advancing Eﬀective, Accountable Policing and Criminal
Justice Practices to Enhance Public Trust and Public Safety
Recipient State, Tribal, local, or territorial law enforcement agencies must
comply with the requirements of section 12(c) of E.O. 14074. Recipient State,
Tribal, local, or territorial law enforcement agencies are also encouraged to
adopt and enforce policies consistent with E.O. 14074 to support safe and
eﬀective policing.
Article 16 Energy Policy and Conservation Act
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the Energy Policy and
Conservation Act, Pub. L. No. 94-163 (1975) (codiﬁed as amended at 42
U.S.C. § 6201 et seq.), which contain policies relating to energy eﬃciency that
are deﬁned in the state energy conservation plan issued in compliance with
this Act.
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
6 of 14
Article 17 False Claims Act and Program Fraud Civil Remedies
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the False Claims Act, 31
U.S.C. §§ 3729- 3733, which prohibit the submission of false or fraudulent
claims for payment to the Federal Government. (See 31 U.S.C. §§ 3801-
3812, which details the administrative remedies for false claims and
statements made.)
Article 18 Federal Debt Status
All recipients are required to be non-delinquent in their repayment of any
federal debt. Examples of relevant debt include delinquent payroll and other
taxes, audit disallowances, and beneﬁt overpayments. (See OMB Circular A-
129.)
Article 19 Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving
Recipients are encouraged to adopt and enforce policies that ban text
messaging while driving recipient-owned, recipient-rented, or privately owned
vehicles when on oﬃcial government business or when performing any work
for or on behalf of the Federal Government. Recipients are also encouraged
to conduct the initiatives of the type described in Section 3(a) of E.O. 13513.
Article 20 Fly America Act of 1974
Recipients must comply with Preference for U.S. Flag Air Carriers (a list of
certiﬁed air carriers can be found at: Certiﬁcated Air Carriers List | US
Department of Transportation, https://www.transportation.gov/policy/aviation-
policy/certiﬁcated-air-carriers-list)for international air transportation of people
and property to the extent that such service is available, in accordance with
the International Air Transportation Fair Competitive Practices Act of 1974,
49 U.S.C. § 40118, and the interpretative guidelines issued by the
Comptroller General of the United States in the March 31, 1981, amendment
to Comptroller General Decision B-138942.
Article 21 Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990
Recipients must ensure that all conference, meeting, convention, or training
space funded entirely or in part by federal award funds complies with the ﬁre
prevention and control guidelines of Section 6 of the Hotel and Motel Fire
Safety Act of 1990, 15 U.S.C. § 2225a.
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
7 of 14
Article 22 John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year
2019
Recipients, subrecipients, and their contractors and subcontractors are
subject to the prohibitions described in section 889 of the John S. McCain
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, Pub. L. No. 115-232
(2018) and 2 C.F.R. §§ 200.216, 200.327, 200.471, and Appendix II to 2
C.F.R. Part 200. The statute 
– as it applies to DHS recipients, subrecipients,
and their contractors and subcontractors – prohibits obligating or expending
federal award funds on certain telecommunications and video surveillance
products and contracting with certain entities for national security reasons.
Article 23 Limited English Proﬁciency (Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI)
Recipients must comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C.
§ 2000d et seq.) prohibition against discrimination on the basis of national
origin, which requires that recipients of federal ﬁnancial assistance take
reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to persons with limited
English proﬁciency (LEP) to their programs and services. For additional
assistance and information regarding language access obligations, please
refer to the DHS Recipient Guidance: https://www.dhs.gov/guidance-
published-help- department-supported-organizations-provide-meaningful-
access-people-limited and additional resources on http://www.lep.gov.
Article 24 Lobbying Prohibitions
Recipients must comply with 31 U.S.C. § 1352 and 6 C.F.R. Part 9, which
provide that none of the funds provided under a federal award may be
expended by the recipient to pay any person to inﬂuence, or attempt to
inﬂuence an oﬃcer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an
oﬃcer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in
connection with any federal action related to a federal award or contract,
including any extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modiﬁcation.
Per 6 C.F.R. Part 9, recipients must ﬁle a lobbying certiﬁcation form as
described in Appendix A to 6 C.F.R. Part 9 or available on Grants.gov as the
Grants.gov Lobbying Form and ﬁle a lobbying disclosure form as described in
Appendix B to 6 C.F.R. Part 9 or available on Grants.gov as the Disclosure of
Lobbying Activities (SF-LLL).
Article 25 National Environmental Policy Act
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the National Environmental
Policy Act of 1969, Pub. L. No. 91-190 (1970) (codiﬁed as amended at 42
U.S.C. § 4321 et seq.) (NEPA) and the Council on Environmental Quality
(CEQ) Regulations for Implementing the Procedural Provisions of NEPA,
which require recipients to use all practicable means within their authority,
and consistent with other essential considerations of national policy, to create
and maintain conditions under which people and nature can exist in
productive harmony and fulﬁll the social, economic, and other needs of
present and future generations of Americans.
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
8 of 14
Article 26 Nondiscrimination in Matters Pertaining to Faith-Based Organizations
It is DHS policy to ensure the equal treatment of faith-based organizations in
social service programs administered or supported by DHS or its component
agencies, enabling those organizations to participate in providing important
social services to beneﬁciaries. Recipients must comply with the equal
treatment policies and requirements contained in 6 C.F.R. Part 19 and other
applicable statues, regulations, and guidance governing the participations of
faith- based organizations in individual DHS programs.
Article 27 Non-Supplanting Requirement
Recipients of federal awards under programs that prohibit supplanting by law
must ensure that federal funds supplement but do not supplant non-federal
funds that, in the absence of such federal funds, would otherwise have been
made available for the same purpose.
Article 28 Notice of Funding Opportunity Requirements
All the instructions, guidance, limitations, scope of work, and other conditions
set forth in the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) for this federal award
are incorporated by reference. All recipients must comply with any such
requirements set forth in the NOFO. If a condition of the NOFO is inconsistent
with these terms and conditions and any such terms of the Award, the
condition in the NOFO shall be invalid to the extent of the inconsistency. The
remainder of that condition and all other conditions set forth in the NOFO
shall remain in eﬀect.
Article 29 Patents and Intellectual Property Rights
Recipients are subject to the Bayh-Dole Act, 35 U.S.C. § 200 et seq. and
applicable regulations governing inventions and patents, including the
regulations issued by the Department of Commerce at 37 C.F.R. Part 401
(Rights to Inventions Made by Nonproﬁt Organizations and Small Business
Firms under Government Awards, Contracts, and Cooperative Agreements)
and the standard patent rights clause set forth at 37 C.F.R. § 401.14.
Article 30 Procurement of Recovered Materials
States, political subdivisions of states, and their contractors must comply with
Section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, Pub. L. No. 89-272 (1965)
(codiﬁed as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act at 42
U.S.C. § 6962) and 2 C.F.R. § 200.323. The requirements of Section 6002
include procuring only items designated in guidelines of the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 C.F.R. Part 247 that contain the highest
percentage of recovered materials practicable, consistent with maintaining a
satisfactory level of competition.
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
9 of 14
Article 31 Rehabilitation Act of 1973
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Pub. L. No. 93-112 (codiﬁed as amended at 29
U.S.C. § 794), which provides that no otherwise qualiﬁed handicapped
individuals in the United States will, solely by reason of the handicap, be
excluded from participation in, be denied the beneﬁts of, or be subjected to
discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal ﬁnancial
assistance.
Article 32 Reporting of Matters Related to Recipient Integrity and Performance
If the total value of any currently active grants, cooperative agreements, and
procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies exceeds
$10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of the
federal award, then the recipient must comply with the requirements set forth
in the government-wide Award Term and Condition for Recipient Integrity and
Performance Matters located at 2 C.F.R. Part 200, Appendix XII, the full text
of which is incorporated by reference.
Article 33 Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation
For federal awards that equal or exceed $30,000, recipients are required to
comply with the requirements set forth in the government-wide award term on
Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation set forth at 2 C.F.R. Part
170, Appendix A, the full text of which is incorporated by reference.
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
10 of 14
Article 34 Required Use of American Iron, Steel, Manufactured Products, and
Construction Materials
Recipients of an award of Federal ﬁnancial assistance from a program for
infrastructure are hereby notiﬁed that none of the funds provided under this
award may be used for a project for infrastructure unless: (1) all iron and steel
used in the project are produced in the United States
—this means all
manufacturing processes, from the initial melting stage through the
application of coatings, occurred in the United States; (2) all manufactured
products used in the project are produced in the United States
—this means
the manufactured product was manufactured in the United States; and the
cost of the components of the manufactured product that are mined,
produced, or manufactured in the United States is greater than 55 percent of
the total cost of all components of the manufactured product, unless another
standard for determining the minimum amount of domestic content of the
manufactured product has been established under applicable law or
regulation; and (3) all construction materials are manufactured in the United
States
—this means that all manufacturing processes for the construction
material occurred in the United States. The Buy America preference only
applies to articles, materials, and supplies that are consumed in, incorporated
into, or aﬃxed to an infrastructure project. As such, it does not apply to tools,
equipment, and supplies, such as temporary scaﬀolding, brought to the
construction site and removed at or before the completion of the infrastructure
project. Nor does a Buy America preference apply to equipment and
furnishings, such as movable chairs, desks, and portable computer
equipment, that are used at or within the ﬁnished infrastructure project but are
not an integral part of the structure or permanently aﬃxed to the infrastructure
project. Waivers When necessary, recipients may apply for, and the agency
may grant, a waiver from these requirements. The agency should notify the
recipient for information on the process for requesting a waiver from these
requirements. (a) When the Federal agency has determined that one of the
following exceptions applies, the awarding oﬃcial may waive the application
of the domestic content procurement preference in any case in which the
agency determines that: (1) applying the domestic content procurement
preference would be inconsistent with the public interest; (2) the types of iron,
steel, manufactured products, or construction materials are not produced in
the United States in suﬃcient and reasonably available quantities or of a
satisfactory quality; or (3) the inclusion of iron, steel, manufactured products,
or construction materials produced in the United States will increase the cost
of the overall project by more than 25 percent. A request to waive the
application of the domestic content procurement preference must be in
writing. The agency will provide instructions on the format, contents, and
supporting materials required for any waiver request. Waiver requests are
subject to public comment periods of no less than 15 days and must be
reviewed by the Made in America Oﬃce. There may be instances where an
award qualiﬁes, in whole or in part, for an existing waiver described at “ Buy
America” Preference in FEMA Financial Assistance Programs for
Infrastructure | FEMA.gov. Deﬁnitions The deﬁnitions applicable to this term
are set forth at 2 C.F.R. § 184.3, the full text of which is incorporated by
reference.
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
11 of 14
Article 35 SAFECOM
Recipients receiving federal ﬁnancial assistance awards made under
programs that provide emergency communication equipment and its related
activities must comply with the SAFECOM Guidance for Emergency
Communication Grants, including provisions on technical standards that
ensure and enhance interoperable communications. The SAFECOM
Guidance is updated annually and can be found at Funding and Sustainment
| CISA.
Article 36 Terrorist Financing
Recipients must comply with E.O. 13224 and applicable statutory prohibitions
on transactions with, and the provisions of resources and support to,
individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. Recipients are legally
responsible for ensuring compliance with the E.O. and laws.
Article 37 Traﬃcking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (TVPA)
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the government-wide
ﬁnancial assistance award term which implements Traﬃcking Victims
Protection Act of 2000, Pub. L. No. 106-386, § 106 (codiﬁed as amended at
22 U.S.C. § 7104). The award term is located at 2 C.F.R. § 175.15, the full
text of which is incorporated by reference.
Article 38 Universal Identiﬁer and System of Award Management
Recipients are required to comply with the requirements set forth in the
government-wide ﬁnancial assistance award term regarding the System for
Award Management and Universal Identiﬁer Requirements located at 2
C.F.R. Part 25, Appendix A, the full text of which is incorporated reference.
Article 39 USA PATRIOT Act of 2001
Recipients must comply with requirements of Section 817 of the Uniting and
Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept
and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA PATRIOT Act), which amends 18
U.S.C. §§ 175
–175c.
Article 40 Use of DHS Seal, Logo and Flags
Recipients must obtain written permission from DHS prior to using the DHS
seals, logos, crests, or reproductions of ﬂags, or likenesses of DHS agency
oﬃcials. This includes use of DHS component (e.g., FEMA, CISA, etc.) seals,
logos, crests, or reproductions of ﬂags, or likenesses of component oﬃcials.
Article 41 Whistleblower Protection Act
Recipients must comply with the statutory requirements for whistleblower
protections at 10 U.S.C § 470141 U.S.C. § 4712.
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
12 of 14
Article 42 Applicability of DHS Standard Terms and Conditions to Tribes
The DHS Standard Terms and Conditions are a restatement of general
requirements imposed upon recipients and ﬂow down to sub-recipients as a
matter of law, regulation, or executive order. If the requirement does not apply
to Indian tribes or there is a federal law or regulation exempting its application
to Indian tribes, then the acceptance by Tribes of, or acquiescence to, DHS
Standard Terms and Conditions does not change or alter its inapplicability to
an Indian tribe. The execution of grant documents is not intended to change,
alter, amend, or impose additional liability or responsibility upon the Tribe
where it does not already exist.
Article 43 Acceptance of Post Award Changes
In the event FEMA determines that an error in the award package has been
made, or if an administrative change must be made to the award package,
recipients will be notiﬁed of the change in writing. Once the notiﬁcation has
been made, any subsequent requests for funds will indicate recipient
acceptance of the changes to the award. Please call FEMA Grant
Management Operations at (866) 927-5646 or via e-mail to: ASK-
GMD@fema.dhs.gov if you have any questions.
Article 44 Disposition of Equipment Acquired Under the Federal Award
For purposes of original or replacement equipment acquired under this award
by a non-state recipient or non-state sub-recipients, when that equipment is
no longer needed for the original project or program or for other activities
currently or previously supported by a federal awarding agency, you must
request instructions from FEMA to make proper disposition of the equipment
pursuant to 2 C.F.R. section 200.313. State recipients and state sub-
recipients must follow the disposition requirements in accordance with state
laws and procedures.
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
13 of 14
Article 45 Prior Approval for Modiﬁcation of Approved Budget
Before making any change to the FEMA approved budget for this award, you
must request prior written approval from FEMA where required by 2 C.F.R.
section 200.308. For purposes of non-construction projects, FEMA is utilizing
its discretion to impose an additional restriction under 2 C.F.R. section
200.308(f) regarding the transfer of funds among direct cost categories,
programs, functions, or activities. Therefore, for awards with an approved
budget where the federal share is greater than the simpliﬁed acquisition
threshold (currently $250,000), you may not transfer funds among direct cost
categories, programs, functions, or activities without prior written approval
from FEMA where the cumulative amount of such transfers exceeds or is
expected to exceed ten percent (10%) of the total budget FEMA last
approved. For purposes of awards that support both construction and non-
construction work, FEMA is utilizing its discretion under 2 C.F.R. section
200.308(h)(5) to require the recipient to obtain prior written approval from
FEMA before making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of
work. You must report any deviations from your FEMA approved budget in
the ﬁrst Federal Financial Report (SF-425) you submit following any budget
deviation, regardless of whether the budget deviation requires prior written
approval.
Article 46 Indirect Cost Rate
2 C.F.R. section 200.211(b)(15) requires the terms of the award to include the
indirect cost rate for the federal award. If applicable, the indirect cost rate for
this award is stated in the budget documents or other materials approved by
FEMA and included in the award ﬁle.
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
14 of 14
11/13/2024 REC-01Attachment C
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY18:38:34
RECORD OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATION (REC)
Project
Title:
EMD-2023-BR-001-0003
Drought Mitigation Alternatives Analysis
Non Compliant Flag:
Level:
EA Draft Date: EA Final Date:
EA Public Notice Date: EA Fonsi
EIS Notice of Intent EIS ROD Date:
No
CATEX
Comment This is a scoping project focused on alternative analysis for drought mitigation. The City of Cheyenne
(City) is at risk of facing impacts of drought in all of its water supply basins and potential loss of junior
water rights through Colorado River curtailment. The City is working to develop a study of two drought
mitigation activities that will culminate in an alternatives analysis. The Board of Public Utilities (BOPU)
will hire and oversee a contractor that will conduct an evaluation of drought and hydraulic conditions as
it relates to the hydraulic basins that supply Cheyenne's potable water, perform a Benefit-Cost Analysis,
and develop preliminary designs. The selected drought mitigation alternative will maximize use of
existing water rights held by the City in the Crow Creek watershed. The outcome of this project will
support application for future funding opportunities. One option includes a surface water blending study
that will focus on regulatory requirements for water quality and an appropriate blending ratio with this
new source water for potable water delivered to residential, commercial, and industrial customers in the
BOPU's service area, which includes Cheyenne, FE Warren Air Force Base, and portions of Laramie
County. Potential blends will be identified from Crystal Reservoir and Lower North Fork Crow Creek,
South Fork Crow Creek, and Casper aquifer. If this solution is determined feasible, the study will also
inform design decisions regarding modification of water treatment processes (e.g., disinfection system)
and any infrastructure changes that might be needed. An alternative to the surface water blending study
includes expansion of the existing water reuse distribution system by converting the lakes (i.e.,
Absarraca, Kiwanis, and Sloans) to Class A recycled water. Six-hundred acre-feet of raw water that
would otherwise fill the lakes would be diverted to a water treatment plant and delivered to Cheyenne to
meet potable demand. BOPU is currently under contract with a consultant for the first phase of a
feasibility study to identify regulatory requirements, involve stakeholders, and assess potential risks to
human health and the environment associated with exposures to recycled water in the lakes.
FEMA Environmental Historic Preservation (EHP) has reviewed the project; although there is no
information necessary for EHP review at this time since the grant is for project scoping activities only,
EHP recommends the City of Cheyenne consider National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) applicable
laws and regulations when studying any future project actions. It is recommended that the City start
EHP existing conditions reviews and analysis once a project area is defined.
This project may have eligible National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) sites within the project
boundaries. Ground disturbing activities may trigger a Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation
Act consultation with the Wyoming State Historic Preservation Office. FEMA recommends the City of
Cheyenne procure the services of a qualified archaeological consultant to prepare a Class I Cultural
Resources Survey report and then conduct a Class III survey if required based on the results of the
Class I survey. The Cultural Resources Survey report's area of potential effect (APE) should consider
and analyze impacts associated with all temporary and permanent project activities, including
staging/stockpile areas, access routes, vegetation removal, and all areas potentially subject to ground
disturbance.
FEMA recommends the City of Cheyenne procure the services of a qualified biologist to assess the
presence of any federally listed threatened and endangered species and/or wetlands within the
proposed project boundaries, including locations of staging areas and any other areas of ground
disturbance. Work within a jurisdictional Waters of the U.S. will require a Section 404 permit under the
Clean Water Act from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and may require a floodplain development
permit from the local floodplain administrator.
Please note that FEMA issued its implementing procedures for the Federal Flood Risk Management
Standard (FFRMS) on 09/09/2024 (FFRMS FEMA Policy: FP 206-24-005). FEMA recommends that the
project team consider FFRMS in their scoping activities, as applicable. For more information, please see
policy document at: https://www.fema.gov/sites/default/files/documents/fema_floodplain-
management_ffrms-policy_092024.pdf
Other environmental laws and regulations that may be applicable to future project planning efforts
include: Endangered Species Act, Executive Order 11990 (Wetlands), Executive Order 11988
(Floodplain Management) and Executive Order 12898 (Environmental Justice for Low Income and
Minority Populations). Upon award of the project scoping application, FEMA EHP staff is available to
provide guidance and support on NEPA
NEPA DETERMINATION
Page 1 of 4NOTE: All times are GMT using a 24-hour clock.
Attachment C to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
1 of 4
11/13/2024 REC-01FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
18:38:34
RECORD OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATION (REC)
Project
Title:
EMD-2023-BR-001-0003
Drought Mitigation Alternatives Analysis
and EHP compliance, if requested. Once the project boundaries are defined, FEMA EHP recommends
cultural resources and biological resources reports to help the City of Cheyenne identify any future EHP
concerns and/or required consultations. These studies can be completed as part of the project scoping
application scope of work and can streamline the EHP review once the project advances.
The project area for these studies should consider and analyze impacts associated with all temporary
and permanent project activities, including staging/stockpile areas, access routes, vegetation removal,
and all areas potentially subject to ground disturbance. This memorandum and FEMA EHP approval of
the requested project scoping funds does not constitute authorization of any construction activities
associated with proposed future mitigation actions.
- kblanto1 - 11/12/2024 21:09:52 GMT
Description SelectedCatex Category Code
(a4) Information gathering, data analysis and processing, information
dissemination, review, interpretation, and development of documents.  If any of
these activities result in proposals for further action, those proposals must be
covered by an appropriate CATEX.  Examples include but are not limited to: (a)
Document mailings, publication and distribution, training and information
programs, historical and cultural demonstrations, and public affairs actions. (b)
Studies, reports, proposals, analyses, literature reviews; computer modeling;
and non-intrusive intelligence gathering activities.
a4 Yes
(a7) The commitment of resources, personnel, and funding to conduct audits,
surveys, and data collection of a minimally intrusive nature.  If any of these
commitments result in proposals for further action, those proposals must be
covered by an appropriate CATEX.  Examples include, but are not limited to: (a)
Activities designed to support the improvement or upgrade management of
natural resources, such as surveys for threatened and endangered species,
wildlife and wildlife habitat, historic properties, and archeological sites; wetland
delineations; timber stand examination; minimal water, air, waste, material and
soil sampling; audits, photography, and interpretation. (b) Minimally-intrusive
geological, geophysical, and geo-technical activities, including mapping and
engineering surveys. (c) Conducting Facility Audits, Environmental Site
Assessments and Environmental Baseline Surveys, and (d) Vulnerability, risk,
and structural integrity assessments of infrastructure.
a7 Yes
CATEX CATEGORIES
Description Selected ?Extraordinary Circumstance Code
No Extraordinary Circumstances were selected
EXTRAORDINARY
Environmental Law/
Executive Order Description CommentStatus
Clean Air Act (CAA) Project will not result in permanent air
emissions - Review concluded
Completed
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW / EXECUTIVE ORDER
Page 2 of 4NOTE: All times are GMT using a 24-hour clock.
Attachment C to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
2 of 4
11/13/2024 REC-01FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
18:38:34
RECORD OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATION (REC)
Project
Title:
EMD-2023-BR-001-0003
Drought Mitigation Alternatives Analysis
Environmental Law/
Executive Order Description CommentStatus
Coastal Barrier Resources Act
(CBRA)
Project is not on or connected to CBRA Unit
or otherwise protected area - Review
concluded
Completed
Clean Water Act (CWA) Project would not affect any water of the U.S.
- Review concluded
Completed
Coastal Zone Management Act
(CZMA)
Project is not located in a coastal zone area
and does not affect a coastal zone area -
Review concluded
Completed
Executive Order 11988 -
Floodplains
No effect on floodplain/flood levels and
project outside floodplain - Review concluded
Completed
Executive Order 11990 -
Wetlands
No effects on wetlands and project outside
wetlands - Review concluded
Completed
Executive Order 12898 -
Environmental Justice for Low
Income and Minority Populations
No Low income or minority population in,
near or affected by the project - Review
concluded
Completed
Endangered Species Act (ESA) No listed species and/or designated critical
habitat present in areas affected directly or
indirectly by the federal action - Review
concluded
Completed
Farmland Protection Policy Act
(FPPA)
Project does not affect designated prime or
unique farmland - Review concluded
Completed
Fish and Wildlife Coordination
Act (FWCA)
Project does not affect, control, or modify a
waterway/body of water - Review concluded
Completed
Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA) Project not located within a flyway zone -
Review concluded
Completed
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery
Conservation and Management
Act (MSA)
Project not located in or near Essential Fish
Habitat - Review concluded
Completed
National Historic Preservation Act
(NHPA)
Not type of activity with potential to affect
historic properties - Review concluded</br>
Completed
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(WSR)
Project is not along and does not affect Wild
and Scenic River - Review concluded
Completed
Page 3 of 4NOTE: All times are GMT using a 24-hour clock.
Attachment C to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
3 of 4
11/13/2024 REC-01FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
18:38:34
RECORD OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATION (REC)
Project
Title:
EMD-2023-BR-001-0003
Drought Mitigation Alternatives Analysis
Standard Conditions:
Any change to the approved scope of work will require re-evaluation for compliance with NEPA and other Laws and Executive Orders.
This review does not address all federal, state and local requirements. Acceptance of federal funding requires recipient to comply with all
federal, state and local laws. Failure to obtain all appropriate federal, state and local environmental permits and clearances may
jeopardize federal funding.
If ground disturbing activities occur during construction, applicant will monitor ground disturbance and if any potential archeological
resources are discovered, will immediately cease construction in that area and notify the State and FEMA.
CONDITIONS
Page 4 of 4NOTE: All times are GMT using a 24-hour clock.
Attachment C to the Contract between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
4 of 4