~ 
I = ,.. ' 
A Division of @ Companion Life Insurance Company 
May 9, 2025 
Darrin Haas 
Director of Human Resources 
City of Cheyenne Wyoming 
2101 O'Neil Ave. 
Cheyenne, WY 82001 
Re: Companion Life Insurance Company Stop Loss Policy# CLI 51,219 
Dear Mr. Haas, 
As an exception, Companion Life Insurance Company agrees to release the Stop Loss 
policy for City of Cheyenne, WY without receipt of the binder premium. Stop Loss coverage 
cannot be bound, and no claims will be considered until the binder premium is received by 
ISU a Division of Companion Life Insurance Company. 
We appreciate your business and look forward to working with you. 
Sincerely, 
~~ ~ 
Ken Hockaday, Sr. Vice President of Underwriting 
/SU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
10199 Southside Blvd, Suite 205, Jacksonville, FL 32256 
904.460.8926 (mobile) 
CC: Mike Thomas I Novo Connection I Stop Loss Marketing Manager 
10199 Southside Boulevard • Suite 205 • Jacksonville, Florida 32256 
Phone (904) 281-2151 • Fax (904) 281-0384 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 1 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
 
Companion Life Insurance Company 
Post Office Box 100102 
Columbia, South Carolina 29202 
(803) 735-1251 
 
Companion Life Insurance Company, Columbia, South Carolina agrees to pay excess l oss 
insurance benefits under the provisions of this Contract to the Contractholder listed in the 
Schedule for Excess Loss Insurance. 
 
 READ THIS CONTRACT CAREFULLY 
 
This Contract is legally binding between the Contractholder and Companion Life Insurance 
Company ("Company"). The consideration for this Contract includes, but is not limited to, the 
application and the payment of premiums as provided hereinafter. 
 
 AGREEMENT 
 
The Company will pay the Aggregate  Benefit and/or Specific Benefits provided in this Contract. 
Payment is subject to the conditions, limitations and exceptions of this Contract. 
 
The Contractholder agrees to pay premiums when due and to comply with th e Contract 
provisions. 
 
This Contract takes effect on the Effective Date shown in the Schedule, which will be the date of 
issue, and terminates at the end of the Contract Period shown in the Schedule unless it is 
renewed. All periods indicated in this Contract begin and end at 12:01 A.M. standard time at the 
Contractholder's office. 
 
This Contract is governed by the laws of the state of issue, shown in the Schedule.  
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF Companion Life Insurance Company has caused this Contract to be 
executed by its President at Columbia, South Carolina. 
 
 
  
J. Anderson Folsom 
President 
 
 Contract Providing Excess Loss Insurance 
 Nonparticipating 
 
For service or questions about this Contract, please address any inquiries to ISU, a division of 
Companion Life Insurance Company, 10199 Southside Blvd, Suite 205, Jacksonville, FL 32256 
or call 904-281-2151. 
~ companion Life 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 2 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
COVER PAGE ........................................................................................................................................................ 1 
TABLE OF CONTENTS……………………………………………………………………………………… ………… ... 2 
SCHEDULE FOR EXCESS LOSS INSURANCE ................................................................................................... 3 
SECTION I - DEFINITIONS .................................................................................................................................... 6 
SECTION II - BENEFITS ...................................................................................................................................... 10 
SECTION III - LIMITATIONS ........................................................................................................................... .....13 
SECTION IV - CLAIMS PROVISIONS ................................................................................................................. 15 
SECTION V - CONTRACT TERMINATION…………………………………………………………………. ........... ...17 
SECTION VI - GENERAL PROVISIONS…………………………………………………………………………… ... .18 
 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 3 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
COMPANION LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
 SCHEDULE FOR EXCESS LOSS INSURANCE 
 
 
 
1. Contract Number:  CLI 51,219      
 
2. Contractholder:   City of Cheyenne      
3. Address:   2101 O'Neil Ave, Room 103     
 
City: Cheyenne  State:   Wyoming Zip Code: 82001  
4. Subsidiary or affiliated companies (companies under common control through stock ownership, 
contract, or otherwise) to be included (list legal name and addresses): 
 
            
  
5. Name and address of Designated Administrator: 
     Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wyoming-4000 House Avenue, Cheyenne, WY 82001    
6. Effective Date:  July 1, 2025 
7. Estimated Initial Enrollment (will be used as the Number of Covered Units during the first Contract 
Month): 
 
 
Employee Only 185 
Employee + Child(ren) 57 
Employee + Spouse 87 
Family 172 
 
8. GENERAL SCHEDULE OPTIONS: 
 
(a) Contract Period: 07/01/2025 through 06/30/2026 
 
(b) Disabled Persons:  [X] are [  ] are not covered. 
Retired Employees:  [X] are [  ] are not covered. 
 
(c)  Aggregate Benefit:  [X] Yes    [  ] No 
 
 Aggregate Contract Basis: Employee Benefit Plan Expenses must be 
 Incurred from: 07/01/2025 through 06/30/2026, and 
 Paid from: 07/01/2025 through 12/31/2026. 
 
Aggregate Eligible Claim Payments include: 
[X] Medical  [X] Prescription Drugs  
[  ] Dental Care  [  ] Weekly (Disability) Income 
[  ] Vision Care  [  ] Other                     
 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 4 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
Aggregate Monthly Factor per Covered Person:   
 
         
Employee Only $930.90 
Employee + Child(ren) $1,641.19 
Employee + Spouse $1,854.38 
Family $2,785.28 
 
 
 Aggregate Payable Percentage (excess of Aggregate Deductible):  100% 
Maximum Eligible Claim Expense Per Covered Person: $150,000 
Minimum Aggregate Deductible:   $10,873,963 
Maximum Aggregate Benefit (excess of Aggregate Deductible):  $2,000,000 
 
    Monthly Aggregate Accommodation:   [  ] Yes [X] No 
 
   Aggregate Terminal Liability:     [  ] Yes [X] No 
  
(d) Specific Benefit:          [X] Yes      [  ] No 
  Specific Contract Basis: Employee Benefit Plan expenses must be: 
Incurred from:   07/01/2025 through 06/30/2026. 
     Paid from:  07/01/2025  through 12/31/2026. 
 
Claims Incurred prior to the Contract Effective Date are limited to: N/A  
               
Specific Eligible Claim Payments include:   
[X] Medical  [X] Prescription Drugs 
[  ] Dental Care  [  ] Weekly (Disability) Income 
[  ] Vision Care             [  ] Other                  
Specific Deductible (per Covered Person):     $150,000 
Specific Deductible for the following Covered Person(s) will apply: 
N/A                          N/A 
 
Aggregating Specific Deductible :      [  ] Yes         [X] No 
Aggregating Specific Deductible:      N/A 
 
  Specific Payable Percentage (excess of Deductible):   100% 
  Maximum Specific Benefit (per Covered Person in excess of 
    Specific Deductible):        Unlimited   
 
Simultaneous Specific Reimbursement     Simultaneous Specific Reimbursement:     [X] Yes          [  ] No 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 5 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
9. PREMIUMS: 
 
(a) Aggregate Premium per month:   
 
          
Composite $6.17 
 
 
Total Minimum Annual Aggregate Premium:    N/A  
 
Monthly Aggregate Accommodation: 
 
Annual Premium in Advance:     N/A    
 
Aggregate Terminal Liability: 
 
Annual Premium in Advance:     N/A                 
(b) Specific Premium Per Month:   
         
Employee Only  $108.06 
Employee + Child(ren) $183.41 
Employee + Spouse $206.02 
Family $304.78 
 
Specific Terminal Liability: 
 
Minimum Monthly Specific Premium:    N/A              
  
 
 
 
10. SPECIAL RISK LIMITATIONS: 
 
Contract will be based upon the current Employee benefits as defined in the Employee Benefit 
Plan by reference or by attachment, except as noted below: 
 
Specific:  specific deductible will increase to $600,000    
   
  specific deductible will increase to $500,000    
   
  specific deductible will increase to $400,000    
   
 Worker’s Compensation claims are not covered under the stop loss policy.  
 Gene Therapy Treatment that is not FDA approved is excluded from coverage   
 under the Stop Loss Policy.       
Aggregate: Gene Therapy Treatment that is not FDA approved is excluded from coverage   
 under the Stop Loss Policy.       
 
 
 
 
  
 

 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 6 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
I. DEFINITIONS 
 
Administrator means an organization that processes insurance claims or certain aspects of the 
Employee Benefit Plan for the Contractholder. 
 
Agent, when referring to the Contractholder, means the Contractholder's representative, including but not 
limited to its designated Agent, broker, or Administrator. 
 
Aggregate Accommodation means an advance of the Aggregate Benefit during the Contract Period. 
 
Aggregate Benefit means the amount that the Company agrees to pay the Contractholder after the end 
of the Contract Period for Eligible Claims Paid by the Contractholder as set forth in the Schedule and 
pursuant to the terms, conditions and limitations of this Contract. 
 
Aggregate Contract Basis identifies the dates during which Employee Benefit Plan expenses must be 
Incurred and must be Paid to be considered eligible for reimbursement as Aggregate Benefits. 
 
Aggregate Deductible Per Month  means the Aggregate Monthly Factor shown in the Schedule 
multiplied by the Number of Covered Units. 
 
Aggregate Deductible means the sum of each Aggregate Deductible Per Month for each month  during 
the Contract Period or fraction thereof. 
 
Aggregate Monthly Factor means the factor shown in the Schedule. 
 
Aggregating Specific Deductible  means the amount in addition to the Specific  Deductible the 
Contractholder must satisfy before Specific Eligible Claim Payments are reimbursable under this  
Contract. The Aggregating Specific Deductible A mount is  satisfied by applying any Eligible Claim  
Payments that exceed the Specific Deductible for any Specific Benefit claim.  The Aggregating Specific 
Deductible amount does not apply towards the satisfaction of the Aggregate Deductible. 
 
Aggregate Terminal Liability is a provision allowing a Contractholder who is converting to fully insured 
coverage the option to extend the Aggregate Benefit for a defined period following the termination of the 
Contract. 
 
Approved Clinical Trials means the definition as set forth in Section II. Benefits or as determined by a 
Medical Director 
 
Continuation Beneficiary is a Covered Unit which elects to extend its group health coverage under 
 the Employee Benefit Plan entitled under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 
(COBRA). 
 
Contract means the entire agreement between the Contractholder and the Company, specifically 
including the Contract application, th is Contract form, the Contract amendments and/or riders (if any), 
and a copy of the Contractholder's Employee Benefit Plan. 
 
Contract Month means a period measured from the Effective Date of this Contract, while this Contract is 
in force. Each new Contract Month will begin on a day which corresponds to the Effective Date.  
If there is no such day in any applicable month, then the last day of the month will be used. 
 
Contract Period is stated in the Schedule. 
 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 7 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
Contractholder is named in the Schedule. 
 
Covered Person  refers to each person, individually, who is a Covered Unit, or, in the case of a 
Dependent, a member of a Covered Unit. In no event will coverage for a Dependent become effective 
before the Effective Date of coverage of the Plan Participant under the Employee Benefit Plan. 
 
Covered Unit  for purposes of calculation of the premiums and the Aggregate Deductible Per Month, 
means a Plan Participant, a Plan Participant with Dependents, or such other defined unit as agreed upon 
between the Company and the Contractholder, provided such Plan Participant, Dependents or such other 
defined unit is covered under the Employee Benefit Plan. 
 
Dependent means a person who is defined as a Dependent under the Employee Benefit Plan. 
 
Disabled Person is a Plan Participant not actively at work or, in the case of a Dependent or Continuation 
Beneficiary, is by disability unable to perform his or her normal functions of a person of like sex and age 
on the Effective Date of this Contract or the date such person becomes eligible for coverage under the 
Employee Benefit Plan. 
 
Effective Date means, for this Contract, the date shown in the Schedule, which will be the date of issue, 
and terminates on the end of the Contract Period shown in the Schedule. 
 
Eligible Claim Payments means expenses of the Employee Benefit Plan qualifying for coverage under 
the terms and conditions of this Contract. 
 
Employee means a person who is defined as an Employee under the Employee Benefit Plan. 
 
Employee Benefit Plan means the master plan document of the Contractholder in effect on the Effective 
Date of this Contract to provide medical expense benefits to the Contractholder's covered Plan 
Participants and Dependents of such Plan Participants, a copy of which is by reference or by attachment 
to and made a part of this Contract. 
 
Incurred refers to the date on which a covered medical service was rendered, the date disability benefit 
payments become due, or a covered medical purchase was made for a Covered Person under the 
Employee Benefit Plan. 
 
Manager means an organization that processes all or certain administrative functions  on behalf  of 
Companion Life Insurance Company.  
 
Maximum Aggregate Benefit  means the amount set forth in the Schedule  as the maximum total 
Aggregate Benefit payable under the terms, conditions and limitations of this Contract during the Contract 
Period. 
 
Maximum Eligible Claim Expense Per Covered Person as it relates to aggregate coverage, means the 
maximum dollar value of claims Paid on any one Covered Person that can apply toward satisfaction of an 
Aggregate Deductible, or that can apply toward the calculation of the Aggregate Benefit for a Contract 
Period. 
 
Maximum Specific Benefit means the amount set forth in the Schedule  for Excess Loss Insurance 
that is the maximum total Specific Benefit payable per Covered Person in excess of the Specific 
Deductible under the terms, conditions and limitations of this Contract for claims Incurred and/or Paid 
under the Employee Benefit Plan and in accordance with the Specific Contract Basis, as specified in 
the Schedule. 
 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 8 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
The Maximum Specific Benefit is further limited to the Employee Benefit Plan annual limit minus the 
Specific Deductible. 
 
In the context of the definition of Maximum S pecific Benefit, references to Employee Benefit Plan  
include all predecessors and successors of the particular plan in effect on the Contract Effective Date. 
 
Medical Director is a professional such as a physician who is employed by an Administrator, insurance 
company or health plan to provide guidance and leadership in the delivery of medical care for a Covered 
Person. 
 
Minimum Aggregate Deductible  means the lowest possible Aggregate Deductible applicable to the 
Contract Period or fraction thereof. This amount is set forth in the Schedule. 
 
Number of Covered Units means the total Number of Covered Units existing in any Contract Month.  
 
Paid means that funds are actually disbursed by the Contractholder  or his Agent. Payment of a claim is 
the unconditional and direct payment of a claim to a Covered Person or their health care providers. 
Payment will be deemed made on the date that both (1) the payor directly tenders payment by mailing (or 
otherwise delivering) a draft or check, and (2) the account upon which the payment is drawn contains, 
and continues to contain, sufficient funds to permit the check or draft to be honored. 
 
Should the account upon which payment is drawn not contain sufficient funds to cover all outstanding 
checks and drafts on the account, then the Company may consider, in its sole discretion, any particular 
checks or drafts as not having been Paid, but only to the total amount representing the difference 
between the funds in the account and the total of outstanding checks and drafts. 
 
Patient Care Services  means the definition as set forth in Section II . Benefits or as determined by the 
Medical Director of the Employee Benefit Plan. 
 
Payable Percentage  means the percentage payable as shown in the Schedule. The calculation of 
Specific Benefits may be subject to a different Payable Percentage than the calculation of Aggregate 
Benefits. 
 
Plan Participant  means an Employee, a Dependent or any other person who is eligible and who is 
covered under the Employee Benefit Plan. No Plan Participant may be covered by this Contract prior to 
the date his or her coverage is effective under the Employee Benefit Plan or after the date his or her 
coverage under the Employee Benefit Plan ends. 
 
Proof of Loss  is the form authorized by the Company to be used for the submission of claims  or 
expected claims  as well as the supporting documentation reasonably necessary for the Company's 
independent evaluation of the legitimacy and extent of the claim. Claims for expenses not specifically 
identified in previously submitted Proofs of Loss must be accompanied by separate Proofs of Loss. 
 
Schedule means the Schedule for Excess Loss Insurance. 
 
Specific Benefit means the amount the Company will pay to the Contractholder for Eligible Claims Paid 
by the Contractholder over and above the Contractholder's Specific Deductible per Covered Person, and 
pursuant to the terms, conditions and limitations of this Contract. 
 
Specific Contract Basis  identifies the dates during which Employee Benefit Plan expenses must be 
Incurred and must be Paid to be considered eligible for reimbursement as Specific Benefits. 
 
Specific Deductible means the per Covered Person deductible as shown in the Schedule. 
 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 9 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
Specific Terminal Liability  is a provision allowing a  Contractholder who is converting to fully insured 
coverage the option to extend the Specific Benefit for a defined period following the termination of the 
Contract.
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 10 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
II. BENEFITS 
 
The Company will pay, subject to the terms, conditions and limitations of th is Contract, the 
following benefits, if shown in the Schedule. 
 
1. Aggregate  
 
The Aggregate Benefit for the Contract Period, or fraction thereof, is the total of the Eligible Claim 
Payments, on an Incurred and/or Paid basis as shown in the Aggregate Contract Basis of the 
Schedule: 
(a) less the Aggregate Deductible or Minimum Aggregate Deductible, whichever is greater;  
(b) less the amount of the claims Paid by the Contractholder in excess of the Maximum Eligible 
Claim Expense Per Covered Person as shown in the Schedule;  
(c) less amounts paid in the Aggregating Specific Deductible;  
(d) less amounts recovered, refunded, or rebated from other sources; and 
(e) multiplied by the Aggregate Payable Percentage. 
 
Aggregate Benefits are not payable until after the end of the Paid basis shown in the Aggregate 
Contract Basis of the Schedule. If this Contract should terminate prior to the end of the Contract 
Period, the Company shall not be liable for Aggregate Benefits for expenses Incurred or Paid by 
the Contractholder after the termination date. 
 
In no event will the Aggregate Benefit exceed the Maximum Aggregate Benefit shown in the 
Schedule. 
 
2. Specific 
 
The Specific Benefit with regard to each Covered Person, is the total of the Eligible Claim 
Payments, on a n Incurred and/or Paid basis as shown in the Specific Contract Basis of the 
Schedule: 
 
(a) less the Specific Deductible;  
(b) less amounts recovered, refunded, or rebated from other sources; 
(c) multiplied by the Specific Payable Percentage; and 
(d) less the Aggregating Specific Deductible. 
 
The Contractholder shall not be entitled to any Specific Benefit unless and until the Contractholder 
has actually Paid the full amount of the Specific Deductible as set forth in the Schedule for the 
Covered Person(s) for which th e Specific Benefit is sought. The Contractholder shall only be 
entitled to a Specific Benefit up to the amount actually Paid by  the Contractholder over and above 
the Specific Deductible and inclusive of any Aggregating Specific Deductible. 
 
If this Contract should terminate prior to the end of the Contract Period, the Company shall not be 
liable for Specific Benefits for expenses Incurred or Paid by the Contractholder after the 
termination date. 
 
In no event will the Specific Benefit with regard to  any Covered Person exceed the Maximum 
Specific Benefit shown in the Schedule. 
 
Approved Clinical Trials 
This Contract will reimburse Eligible Claim Payments, in excess of the greater of the Aggregate 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 11 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
Deductible or the Minimum Aggregate Deductible and Specific Deductible, for Patient Care 
Services furnished in connection with participation in Approved Clinical Trials as defined below: 
 
An Approved Clinical Trial is defined as a clinical trial that meets all the following conditions: 
 
1. the clinical trial is conducted for the prevention, detection, or treatment of cancer or another 
disease or condition likely to lead to death unless the course of the disease or condition is 
interrupted; 
2. the clinical trial has been peer reviewed and is approved by at least one of the following: 
a. the United States National Institutes of Health;   
b. the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;  
c. the Agency for Health Care Research and Quality;  
d. the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services;  
e. a cooperative group or center of the National Institutes of Health;  
f. a qualified nongovernmental research entity identified in guidelines issued by the 
National Institutes of Health for center support grants;  
g. the United States Department of Defense, Department of Energy or Veterans Affairs; or 
h. is federally funded, or is either: 
1. conducted under an investigational new drug application (IND)  reviewed by the 
Food and Drug Administration; or 
2. a drug trial that is exempt from the IND application requirements. 
3. the facility and personnel conducting the clinical trial are capable of doing so by virtue of their 
experience and training and treat a sufficient volume of patients to maintain that expertise; 
4.  the Covered Person  meets the patient selection criteria enunciated in the study 
protocol for participation in the clinical trial; 
5. the Covered Person  has provided informed consent for participation in the clinical trial in a 
manner that is consistent with current legal and ethical standards; and 
6.  the clinical trial must have a therapeutic intent and must, to some extent, assess the effect 
of the intervention on the Covered Person. 
 
Patient Care Services 
 
Patient Care Services are defined as health care items or services that are furnished to the Covered 
Person in an Approved Clinical Trial, which is consistent with the usual and customary standard of 
care for someone with the Covered Person’s diagnosis, is consistent with the study protocol for the 
clinical trial, and would be covered if the Covered Person did not participate in the Approved Clinical 
Trial. 
 
Patient Care Services must be determined to be eligible under the Contractholder’s Employee 
Benefit Plan. 
 
Patient Care Services do not include any of the following: 
 
1. an FDA approved drug or device shall be a Patient Care Service only to the extent that the 
 drug or device is not paid for by the manufacturer, the distributor or the provider of the drug or 
 device; 
2. non-health care services that the Covered Person may be required to receive as a result  
 of being enrolled in the Approved Clinical Trial; 
3. costs associated with managing the research associated with the Approved Clinical Trial, or 
4. costs that would not be covered for non-investigational treatments; 
5. any item, service or cost that is reimbursed or otherwise furnished by the sponsor of the 
 Approved Clinical Trial; or 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 12 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
6. the costs of services, which are not provided as part of the Approved Clinical Trial’s stated 
 protocol, or other similarly intended guidelines. 
 
Additional Provisions 
 
The Company may require a copy of the Approved Clinical Trial’s study protocol before 
determining if any benefits are payable. 
 
Contract benefits paid shall not create any legal presumption that the Company has recommended, 
directed, endorsed or required any Covered Person’s participation in the Approved Clinical Trial. 
 
Contract benefits paid shall be subject to all terms and conditions of the Contractholder’s Employee 
Benefit Plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 13 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
III. LIMITATIONS 
 
1. This Contract will not pay the Contractholder for any loss or expense caused by or resulting 
from any of the following: 
 
(a) expenses Incurred while the Employee Benefit Plan is not in force with respect to the 
Covered Person; 
 (b)  expenses resulting from weekly (disability) income, dental, vision or any prescription 
card service, unless shown in the Schedule; 
 (c)  liability assumed by the Contractholder under any contract or service agreement other 
than the Employee Benefit Plan; 
 (d)  expenses as the result of extra -contractual damages; compensatory damages; or 
punitive damages; 
 (e)  expenses resulting from or arising out of services which are billed in excess of the 
general level of charges being made by other providers of services in the locality 
where the service is rendered; 
 (f)  expenses for benefits for accidental bodily injury or sickness arising out of or in the 
course of any occupation for wage or profit, or for which the  Employee and 
Dependent would be entitled to or required by law to be covered by benefits under 
any Worker's Compensation,  U. S. L ongshoremen and Harbor  Worker's or other 
occupational disease legislation or contract, whether or not such contract is actually in 
force; 
 (g)  expenses which (1) are not accepted as standard medical treatment for the illness, 
disease or injury being treated by physicians practicing the suitable medical specialty; 
(2) are the subject of scientific or medical research or study to determine the item's 
effectiveness and safety; (3) have not been granted, at the time services were 
rendered, any required approval by a federal or state governmental agency, including 
without limitation, the Federal Department of Health and Human Services, Food and 
Drug Administration, or any comparable state governmental agency, and the Federal 
Health Care Finance Administration as approved for reimbursement under Medicare 
Title XVIII; or (4) are performed subject to the Covered Person's informed consent 
under a treatment protocol that explains the treatment or procedure as being 
conducted under a human subject study or experiment.  
 (h)  cost of the administration of claim payments or expense of litigation with individual 
claimants; 
 (i)  expenses for benefits to any Covered Person with coverage under any other plan, 
including Medicare, which, when combined with the benefits payable by such other 
plan, would cause the total to exceed 100% of the Covered Person's actual 
expenses; 
 (j)  payments under the Employee Benefit Plan arising out of or caused by or contributed 
to or in consequence of war, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), invasion or 
civil war. 
 
2. If the Schedule shows Disabled Persons are not covered, no benefits will be Paid under 
this Contract for expenses Incurred or Paid under the Employee Benefit Plan for a Disabled 
Person until: 
 
(a) a Plan Participant, returns to active, full -time employment for at least one (1) full 
working day; or 
(b) a Dependent or Continuation Beneficiary, is able to perform the normal functions of a 
person of like sex and age. 
 
3. Plan Participants who have previously enrolled and continue to cover their eligible 
Dependents under the Employee Benefit Plan will be eligible to enroll their newborn 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 14 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
children under th is Contract on the date of the child's birth. Employees who have not 
previously enrolled for Dependent coverage will be eligible for newborn child coverage as 
defined within the Employee Benefit Plan. 
 
4. Retired Plan Participants and their Dependents, who are eligible under the Employee 
Benefit Plan, will be eligible for coverage under th is Contract only if so indicated in the 
Schedule. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 15 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
IV. CLAIMS PROVISIONS 
 
1. Payment of Claim:  All benefits as they become payable under this Contract will be Paid to 
the Contractholder. All expenses as they become payable under the Employee Benefit Plan 
shall be Paid by the Contractholder. The Company shall pay claim s within a reasonable 
time after receiving fully executed Proofs of Loss and the documentation reasonably 
necessary to evaluate the eligibility and extent of the claim.  Any Proof of Loss provided to 
the Company or its authorized representative later than 12 months after the end of the 
Contract Basis as stated in the Schedule will not be reimbursable under this Contract. 
 
2. Warranty:  Upon presentation of Proof of Loss to the Company for Aggregate  Benefits 
and/or Specific Benefits, the Contractholder warrants that all monies necessary to pay for 
services and supplies have been paid to the respective providers of medical services or 
supplies to which the claim for reimbursement relates. 
 
3. Notice of Claim:  The Contractholder shall give written notice of claims to the Company on 
the Company's customary notice (Proof of Loss form), within 30 days of the date the 
Contractholder becomes aware of the existence of facts which would reasonably suggest 
the possibility that benefits will be incurred which are covered by this Contract and which 
will result in at least $100,000 or 50% of the Specific Deductible, whichever is less, or that 
the Covered Person has been diagnosed with or treated for any of the conditions listed in 
the Contractholder Disclosure Statement.  If it was not reasonably possible to give written 
proof in the time required, the Company will not reduce or deny the claim for this reason if 
the proof is filed as soon as reasonably possible. In any event, the proof required must be 
given no later than one year from the expiration of the end of the Contract Period. 
 
The Contractholder shall submit within 30 days after each calendar month a monthly paid 
claim report for all Eligible Claims Payments.  
 
 4.  Independent Review Organization Extension: 
 
The paid through date, as specified in the Schedule, may be extended 12 months for 
claims Incurred under the Contractholder’s Employee Benefit Plan during the Contract 
Period for which Incurred claims were denied by the Contractholder or its designated 
Administrator. This extension is based on the following terms: 
 
a. the extension shall apply to Incurred claims that have exceeded the Specific 
Deductible under the Specific Benefit and the portion of the claim that accrues towards 
the Aggregate Deductible;  
b. a state or federally authorized Independent Review Organization has performed an 
Independent External Review  (“IER”), under which process has been found to be 
acceptable under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, and it’s 
implementing regulations;   
c. this extension applies only to those IER decisions which are binding on the Employee 
Benefit Plan;  
d. the Contractholder or its designated A dministrator has notified the Company or its 
designated Manager that a claim has breached the Specific Deductible, but is being 
denied by the Contractholder; 
e. the Contractholder or its designated Administrator notifies the Company or its Manager 
of any decision by the Employee or Dependent to pursue the IER process; 
f. the Independent Review Organization overturns the original denial and the decision to 
overturn is not due to an error made by the Contractholder or its designated 
Administrator; and 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 16 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
g. the Independent Review Organization Extension will be null and void if the Excess of 
Loss Contract is terminated for any reason prior to the natural expiration as defined by 
the Contract Period in the Schedule. 
 5. Legal Action:  
 
No action at law or in equity shall be brought to recover on this Contract prior to the expiration 
of 60 days after written proof of loss has been furnished in accordance with the requirements 
of this Contract. No such action shall be brought after the expiration of three years from Proof 
of Loss. 
 
 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 17 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
V. CONTRACT TERMINATION 
 
This Contract and all benefits hereunder will terminate upon the earliest of the following dates: 
 
1. the termination date specified in writing by the Contractholder provided that the Company is 
notified not less than 31 days in advance of the termination date; 
2. the end of any period for which premiums were paid and subsequent premiums are not 
paid; 
3. the end of the Contract Period; 
4. the date of termination of the Employee Benefit Plan; 
5. the date of cancellation of the administrative agreement between the Contractholder and 
the designated Administrator, unless the Company has, prior to such cancellation, 
consented in writing to the Contractholder's designation of a successor Administrator; or 
6. this Contract will automatically terminate if the Contractholder does not pay claims or make 
available funds to pay claims as required by this Contract. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 18 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
VI. GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
1. Liability:  The Company will have neither the right nor the obligation under this Contract to 
directly pay any Covered Person or provider of professional or medical services for any 
benefit which the Contractholder has agreed to provide under the terms of the Employee 
Benefit Plan. The Company's sole liability hereunder is to the Contractholder, subject to the 
terms, conditions and limitations of this Contract. Nothing in this Contract shall be 
construed to permit a Covered Person to have a direct right of action against the Company. 
 
2. Payment of Premiums:   Each Premium for this Contract is payable on or before its due 
date as set forth in the Schedule to the Company or to its authorized representative. 
Payment of a premium will not maintain this Contract in force beyond the period for which 
such premium is paid, except as otherwise stated in the Grace Period. 
 
If the Effective Date of this Contract is other than the first day of a calendar month, 
premiums payable under this Contract are due and payable on the first of each calendar 
month. 
   
3. Grace Period:  A grace period of 31 days will be allowed for the payment of each premium 
after the first premium. Should a premium otherwise due not be paid during the Grace 
Period, this Contract will terminate without further notice retroactive to the date for which 
premiums were last paid. The liability of the Company will be limited to claims Paid by the 
Contractholder prior to the date of termination. There will be no refund of any premium 
shown in the Schedule. 
 
4. Entire Contract:  This Contract form as issued to the Contractholder, together with the 
Contractholder's application, Contract amendments and/or riders (if any), and a copy of the 
Contractholder's Employee Benefit Plan, constitute the Entire Contract. The Company has 
relied upon the underwriting information provided by the Contractholder or the 
Contractholder's Agent, in the issuance of this Contract. Should subsequent information 
become known which, if known prior to issuance of this Contract, would affect the rates, 
deductibles, terms or conditions for coverage hereunder, the Company will have the right to 
revise the rates, deductibles, terms or conditions as of the Effective Date of issuance, by 
providing written notice to the Contractholder. 
 
Any statements made by the Contractholder  will be considered a representation and not a 
warranty. Statements will not be used to avoid insurance, reduce benefits, or deny a claim 
unless such statements are insured in an application which has been made a part of this 
policy.  
 
5. Concealment, Fraud:  This entire Contract will be void if, whether before or after a claim or 
loss, the Contractholder or its Agent has concealed or misrepresented any material fact or 
circumstance concerning this Contract or the subject thereof, including any claim 
thereunder or in any case of fraud by the Contractholder or its Agent relating thereto. 
 
6. Clerical Error:   Clerical Error, whether by the Contractholder or by the Company, in 
keeping any records pertaining to the coverage, will not invalidate coverage otherwise 
validly in force nor continue coverage otherwise validly terminated. 
 
7. Audits: The Company will have the right: (1) to inspect and audit all records and 
procedures of the Contractholder and designated Administrator; and (2) to require, upon 
request, proof of records satisfactory to the Company that payment has been made to the 
Covered Person or the provider of such services or benefits which are the basis for any 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 19 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
claim by the Contractholder hereunder. 
 
8. Notice of Appeal:  Any objection, notice of legal action, or complaint received on a claim 
process by the Contractholder or the Administrator, and on which it reasonably appears a 
benefit will be payable to the Contractholder under this Contract shall be brought to the 
immediate attention of the Company or its Manager. 
 
9. Changes:  Only the President of the Company or their designee has  the authority to alter 
this Contract, or to waive any of the Company's rights and then only in writing. No such 
alteration of this Contract shall be valid unless endorsed on or attached to this Contract. No 
Agent, broker, or Administrator has the authority to alter this Contract or to waive any of its 
provisions. 
 
10. Notice:  For the purpose of any notice required from the Company under the provisions of 
this Contract, notice to the Contractholder's designated Administrator shall be considered 
notice to the Contractholder. 
 
11. Amendments to the Employee Benefit Plan:   The Employee Benefit Plan shall not be 
changed while this Contract is in force without the prior written consent of the Company. 
Notice of any amendment to the Employee Benefit Plan must be given to the Company or 
its authorized representative at least 30 days prior to the Ef fective Date of the amendment. 
The Company will have the sole option to accept the amendment to the Employee Benefit 
Plan, and if accepted, the Company reserves the right to revise the rates, deductibles, 
terms or conditions of th is Contract as of the Effective Date of the amendment. If such 
amendment is not agreed to in writing, the Company will be liable to pay benefits as if the 
Employee Benefit Plan was not changed. 
 
12. Responsibilities of the Contractholder's Designated Administrator:   Without waiving 
any of its rights under this Contract, and without making the designated Administrator a 
party to this Contract, the Company agrees to recognize the designated Administrator with 
respect to the normal administration of the Contractholder's Plan subject to: 
 
(a) the Administrator being responsible on behalf of the Contractholder  for auditing, 
calculating and processing all claims eligible under the Employee Benefit Plan within 
a reasonable period of time, preparing periodic reports as required by the Company 
and maintaining and making available to the Company at all times such information 
as the Company may reasonably require for proof of payment of the claims(s) by the 
Contractholder; 
(b) the Administrator performing such other duties as may be reasonably required by the 
Company, including but not limited to, maintaining an accurate record of eligible 
Covered Persons of the Contractholder; 
(c) the Company will not be responsible for any compensation owed to the designated 
Administrator for functions performed in relation to this Contract unless those charges 
are considered an Eligible Claims Expense; and 
(d) this Contract will not be deemed to make the Company a party to any agreement 
between the Contractholder and the designated Administrator. 
 
13. Hold Harmless: 
 
(a) The Contractholder agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless for any legal 
expenses incurred, reasonable settlements made, or judgment(s) awarded, arising 
out of any dispute involving a Plan Participant or former Plan Participant of the 
Contractholder's Employee Benefit Plan provided such legal expenses, settlements, 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 20 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
or judgment (s) were not incurred as a result of the sole negligence or intentional 
wrongful acts of the Company. 
 
The Company, following any notification of its being, or likely to be, named as a 
defendant on any action concerning the aforementioned dispute will, within a 
reasonable time, in writing, notify the Contractholder of the dispute. The Company will 
cooperate with the Contractholder in matters pertaining to the dispute, however, such 
cooperation with the Contractholder will not waive the right of the Company to solely 
defend or settle any action in a manner it deems prudent. 
 
(b) The Contractholder shall be responsible for any state premium taxes incurred with 
respect to funds paid to or by the Contractholder under the Employee Benefit Plan. 
Taxes incurred with respect to premiums paid for th is Contract will be the 
responsibility of the Company. 
 
14. Offset:  The Company will be entitled to offset claim reimbursements to the Contractholder 
against premiums due and unpaid by the Contractholder. 
 
15. Assignments:  The Contractholder shall not assign this Contract or any of its rights under 
this Contract without the prior written consent of the Company  President or designee, and 
any assignment without prior written consent shall be void. 
 
16. Subrogation:  The Contractholder shall prosecute any and all valid claims that the 
Contractholder may have against third parties arising out of any occurrence resulting in a 
loss payment by the Contractholder and to account for any amounts recovered. Should the 
Contractholder fail to prosecute any valid claims against third parties and the Company 
thereupon becomes liable to make payments to the Contractholder under the terms and 
conditions of this Contract, then the Company shall assume all the Contractholder's rights 
to prosecute any valid claims against third parties, and the Contractholder will be 
responsible for any reasonable legal expenses incurred in the course of the prosecution. 
 
17. Recoveries:  The Company shall be entitled to recover first up to its full share of 
reimbursed claims before the Contractholder shares in any amount so recovered whether 
by way of subrogation or otherwise. 
 
18. Arbitration:  Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Contract, or the 
breach thereof, shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American 
Arbitration Association, with the express stipulation that the arbitrator(s) shall strictly abide 
by the terms of this Contract and shall strictly apply rules of law applicable thereto. All 
matters shall be decided by a panel of three (3) arbitrators. Judgment upon the award 
rendered by the arbitrators may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. This provision 
shall survive the termination or expiration of this Contract. The parties hereto may alter any 
of the terms of this provision only by express written agreement, although such alteration 
may be before or after any rights or obligations arise under this provision. 
 
19. Insolvency:  The insolvency, bankruptcy, financial impairment, receivership, voluntary plan 
of arrangement with creditors, or dissolution of the Contractholder or the Contractholder's 
designated Administrator shall not impose upon the Company any liability other than the 
liability defined in this Contract. In particular, the insolvency of the Contractholder shall not 
make the Company liable to the creditors of the Contractholder, including Covered 
Persons. 
 
20. Severability Clause:   Any clause deemed void, voidable, invalid, or otherwise 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-P-WY 21 (11/21)  
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
unenforceable, whether or not such a provision is contrary to public contract, shall not 
render any of the remaining provisions of this Contract invalid. 
 
21. Renewal:  Renewal is not automatic but is available if permitted by the Company. Renewal 
may be subject to new premium rates, new underwriting terms, and new Contract terms. 
 
22. Group Specifications - Changes:  The Company reserves the right to revise rates, 
deductibles, terms or conditions of this Contract on any of the following dates: 
 
(a) When the Contractholder adds or deletes a subsidiary or affiliate; 
(b) When there is a change in the geographical area in which the Contractholder is 
located; 
(c) When there is a change in the nature of business in which the Contractholder is 
engaged; or 
(d) When there is an increase or decrease in the Number of Covered Units which 
exceeds 15% in any one month or 30% over any period of three consecutive months. 
 
 
~ Companion Life 
Companion Life Insurance Company 
Post Office Box 100102 
Columbia, South Carolina 29202 
(803) 735-1251 
APPLICATION 
FOR 
AGGREGATE AND SPECIFIC EXCESS LOSS INSURANCE 
Application is hereby made to the Companion Life Insurance Company ("Company") for Excess Loss 
Insurance. This Application must be accepted and approved by the Company or its authorized representative 
prior to any Contract being in existence. 
1. Full Legal Name of Applicant: 
City of Cheyenne 
2. Address: 
2101 O'Neil Ave, Room 103 City: Cheyenne State: WY Zip Code: 82001 
3. If Employee Benefit Plans of subsidiary or affiliated companies (companies under common control through 
stock ownership, contract, or otherwise) are to be included, list legal name and addresses of such 
CNLA 
4. Enter the full name of Your Employee Benefit Plan(s) - (A copy of such Employee Benefit Plan(s) must be 
attached.) 
C: ~v o-t C.hevtofloe / I 
5. Name and address of Designated Administrator: 
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wyoming-4000 House Avenue, Cheyenne, WY 82001 
6. Effective Date: July 1. 2025 
7. Estimated Initial Enrollment (will be used as the Number of Covered Units during the first Contract Month): 
172 
CL-SL-1100-APP-WY 1 (11/21) 
ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
8. GENERAL SCHEDULE OPTIONS: 
(a) 
(b) 
Contract Period: 07/01/2025 to: 06/30/2026 
Disabled Persons 
Retired Employees 
[X] are [ ] are not covered. 
[X are [ ] are not covered. 
(c) Aggregate Benefit [X] Yes [ ] No 
(d) 
Aggregate Contract Basis: Employee Benefit Plan Expenses must be: 
Incurred from 07/01/2025 through 06/30/2026, and 
Paid from 07/01/2025 through 12/31/2026. 
~ggregate Eligible Claim Payments include: 
(XJ Medical (X] Prescription Card Service 
[ ] Dental Care [ ] Weekly (Disability) Income 
[ ] Vision Care [ ] Other 
Aggregate Monthly Factor 
930.90 
1 641.19 
1,854.38 
2,785.28 
Aggregate Payable Percentage (excess of Deductible): 
Maximum Eligible Claim Expense Per Covered Person: 
Minimum Aggregate Deductible: 
Maximum Aggregate Benefit (excess of Deductible): 
Monthly Aggregate Accommodation 
Aggregate Terminal Liability 
Specific Benefit 
100% 
$150,000 
$10,873,963 
$2,000,000 
[ ] Yes 
I ] Yes 
[X] Yes 
Specific Contract Basis: Employee Benefit Plan expenses must be: 
Incurred from: 07/01/2025 through 06/30/2026. 
Paid from: 07/01/2025 through 12/31/2026. 
Claims Incurred prior to the Contract Effective Date are Limited to: NIA 
[X] No 
[X] No 
[ ] No 
Specific Eligible Claim Payments include: [X] Medical [X] Prescription Drugs 
[ ] Dental Care [ ] Weekly (Disability) Income 
[ ] Vision Care [ ] Other 
Specific Deductible (per Covered Person): $150,000 
Specific Deductible for the following Covered Person(s) will apply: 
NIA NIA 
Aggregating Specific Deductible [ ] Yes [X] No 
CL-SL-1100-APP-WY 2 (11/21) 
ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
Aggregating Specific Deductible N/A 
Specific Payable Percentage (excess of Deductible): 100% 
Maximum Specific Benefit (per Covered Person in excess of 
Specific Deductible): Unlimited 
(e) Simultaneous Specific Reimbursement [X] Yes [ ] No 
9. PREMIUMS: 
(a) Aggregate Premium per month: 
!Composite ~6.17 
Total Minimum Annual Aggregate Premium: N/A 
Monthly Aggregate Accommodation: 
Annual Premium in Advance: N/A 
Aggregate Terminal Liability: 
Annual Premium in Advance: N/A 
(b) Specific Premium Per Month: 
108.06 
183.41 
206.02 
304.78 
Specific Terminal Liability: 
Minimum Monthly Specific Premium: N/A 
10. SPECIAL RISK LIMITATIONS: 
Contract will be based upon the current Employee benefits as defined in the Employee Benefit Plan by 
reference or by attachment, except as noted below: 
Specific: 
Aggregate: 
CL-SL-1100-APP-WY 
 specific deductible will increase to $600.000  
 
 specific deductible will increase to $500,000  
 
  s ecific deductible will increase to 00 000  
 
Worker's Compensation claims are not covered under the stop loss policy. 
Gene Therapy Treatment that is not FDA approved is excluded from cove~age 
under the Stop Loss Policy. 
Gene Therapy Treatment that is not FDA approved is excluded from coverage 
under the Stop Loss Policy. 
3 (11/21) 
ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 

11. IT IS UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED, AS CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO THE APPROVAL OF THIS 
APPLICATION, THAT: 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 
(g) 
(h) 
(i) 
0) 
All documentation requested by the Company must be submitted prior to any approval of this 
Application and must be received by the Company within 90 days of the requested Effective Date. 
lf the Schedule shows Disabled Persons are not covered, no benefits will be Paid under the 
Contract for expenses Incurred or Paid under the Employee Benefit Plan for a Disabled Person 
until: 
(1) an Employee, returns to active, full-time employment for at least one full working day; or 
(2) a Dependent or Continuation Beneficiary, is able to perform the normal functions of a person 
of like sex and age. 
Issuance of the Contract is in reliance upon the information provided by the applicant or its Agent. 
Should subsequent information become known which, if known prior to issuance of the Contract, 
would have affected the rates, deductibles, terms or conditions for coverage, the Company will 
have the right to revise the rates, deductibles, terms or conditions as of the Effective Date of 
issuance, by providing written notice to the Covered Person. 
The Contract, if issued, may be void, if whether before or after a claim or loss, any material fact 
or circumstance was concealed or misrepresented on behalf of the applicant, or if the applicant 
or its Agent, committed fraud. 
Receipt of a premium and its deposit in connection with the application shall not constitute an 
acceptance of liability. In the event that Companion Life Insurance Company disapproves this 
application, its sole obligation shall be to refund such sum to the applicant. 
If a Contract is issued and later rescinded, the sum of all benefits Paid will be deducted from the 
sum of all premiums paid. If the result is positive, such amount will be Paid by the Company to 
the applicant. If the result is negative, such amount will be Paid by the applicant to the Company. 
The initial premium will be Paid on or before the Effective Date, and subsequent premiums are 
due no later than the first day of each calendar month during the Contract Period. 
Applicant acknowledges that the Contract which is the subject of this application is a 
reimbursement Contract. Applicant must first pay claims before submitting them for 
reimbursement. 
Oral statements not expressly incorporated herein are not part of this Contract. Only the 
President or Executive Officer of the Company may make changes to the Contract form or 
endorsement and/or riders on behalf of the Company. All changes to this Contract must be in 
writing and attached to this Contract. 
NEITHER THIS APPLICATION NOR THE TERMS OF THIS APPLICATION MAY BE ALTERED. 
In making this application, the applicant represents that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, such 
information accurately reflects the true facts and that the undersigned has authority to bind the applicant to 
the proposed Contract. Accordingly, this application will be a part of the Contract if accepted by the 
Company or its authorized representative. 
CL-SL-1100-APP-WY 4 (11/21) 
ISU, a division of Companion life Insurance Company 
21st
April, 2025
Sr.
--~.....,_ __ ,_a.:JJA.---'---pplicant: ...a:Ca.:.aity::.,,..,;:o"'"f"""C""'h=ey"'"'e=n..._n=e _____________ _ 
Tax ID#: 83-0210987 
By ~~~~tcv? 
Title: ~ t f),,. .. \~r -( ;.\l J C"'cr""f' 
Licensed Resident A~ent Name: Michael Poelman 
Agent Signature: ~ 
State License Number: 67260 (NPN: 2434309) 
Company Issued Number:_ .... N __ /A _____ _ 
Address: 11755 E. Peakview Ave. Suite 250 
City: Englewood State: __ c __ o ____ Zip: 80111 
Social Security or Tax ID# 46-1359884 
ACCEPTANCE 
Accepted on behalf of the Company, this ___ day of 
By: ~)-~ 
Title: Vice President of Underwriting 
Contract No.: __ C __ L .... 15..,.1 ..... 2 .... 1 __ 9 ___ _ Effective Date: 07/01/2025 
CL-SL-1100-APP-VVY 5 (11/21) 
ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
I !<. \ I I) \ \ . \ R' I'.( r ' ( ) I I ( i:s { 11 I he .\ pplic·:111! I I\ e' 111 d 'I.ii e \\ II L'I e ( )I] L' (lr I he· I I ,\ LI d \\ :II ll 11\ s Ill ,1 tee, a p p h p led 'l' I L' \ IL' \ \ I h L' 
I IH>lll'C 1h,1t ,lppl1c·, to\ \llll ,t.ltc' I 
General Fraud Warning: Any person who knowingly presents a false or fraudulent claim for payment of a loss or benefit or 
knowingly presents false infonnation in an application for insurance is guilty of a crime and may be subject to fines and 
confinement in prison. 
CL-SL-1100-APP-WY 6 (11/21) 
ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
CL-SL-1100-AMEND-SSREIM 1  (11/21) 
   ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
 
Companion Life Insurance Company 
Post Office Box 100102 
Columbia, South Carolina 29202 
(803) 735-1251 
 
SIMULTANEOUS SPECIFIC REIMBURSEMENT AMENDMENT 
 
Contract No.:     CLI 51,219 
Contract Effective Date:   July 1, 2025 
Contractholder:    City of Cheyenne 
Amendment Effective Date:  July 1, 2025 
 
This Amendment modifies the Contract identified above. 
 
This Amendment amends the Contract so that:  
 
Section ll.  BENEFITS, Item 2.   Specific is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following: 
 
2. Specific 
 
The Specific Benefit for each Covered Person, is the total of the Eligible Claim Payments, on an Incurred and / or 
Paid basis as shown in the Specific Contract Basis of the Schedule: 
(a) less the Specific Deductible;  
(b) less the Aggregating Specific Deductible; 
(b) less amounts recovered, refunded, or rebated from other sources; 
(c) multiplied by the Specific Payable Percentage. 
 
The Company will simultaneously reimburse Specific Benefits to the Contractholder for all Eligible Claim Payments 
submitted to the Company or its Manager no later than fourteen days after the end of the final payment date as set 
forth in the Schedule’s Specific Contract Basis, which exceed the Specific Deductible at the time of actual payment 
by the Contractholder. To receive the Simultaneous Specific Reimbursement, the Contractholder must have Paid 
the full amount of the Specific Deductible and all premiums listed in the Schedule must be Paid current to date. The 
Contractholder shall only be entitled to a Simultaneous Specific Reimbursement up to the amount submitted by the 
Contractholder over and above the Specific Deductible. 
 
The Company will also reimburse Eligible Claim Payments submitted later than fourteen days after the end of the 
final payment date as set forth in the Schedule’s Specific Contract Basis, if the Eligible Claim Payments have been 
Paid in full by the Contractholder. 
 
If the Contract should terminate prior to the end of the Contract Period, the Company shall not be liable for Specific 
Benefits for expenses Incurred or Paid by the Contractholder after the termination date.  
 
In no event will the Specific Benefit with regard to any Covered Person exceed the Maximum Specific Benefit shown 
in the Schedule. 
If the Contractholder does not renew its Contract with the Company, the Simultaneous Specific Reimbursement benefit is 
only available to the Contractholder for claims submitted 15 day prior to the end of the Contract Period.  
 
Except as stated in this Amendment, nothing contained herein shall be deemed to alter or affect any of the provisions of 
the Contract. 
 
Renewal of this Amendment is not automatic but is available if permitted by the Company.  
                                                                       
   J. Anderson Folsom 
            President                                                   
 
e. Companion Life 
 
CL-SL-1100-END-GRT 1 (12/23) 
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company  
 
Companion Life Insurance Company 
Post Office Box 100102 
Columbia, South Carolina 29202 
(803) 735-1251 
 
GENE THERAPY and RETHYMIC TREATMENT ENDORSEMENT 
 
 
Contract No.:     CLI 51,219  
Contract Effective Date:   July 1, 2025 
Contractholder:    CLI 51,219  
Endorsement Effective Date:  July 1, 2025  
 
This Endorsement modifies the Contract identified above. 
 
It is hereby understood and agreed that the following items are incorporated into the Contract.  
 
Gene Therapy and Rethymic Treatment  
This Contract will reimburse Eligible Claim Payments, in excess of the Aggregate Deductible or the Minimum Aggregate 
Deductible, whichever is greater   and the Specific Deductible, for Gene Therapy and Rethymic Treatment approved by 
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) . This includes new Gene Therapies approved for complex conditions and 
expanded age ranges approved by the FDA after the Endorsement Effective Date. 
 
For Gene Therapy and Rethymic Treatment covered under this Endorsement, the expense for the Product will be 
considered an Eligible Claim Payment . The professional and facility charges associated with the administration of the 
Gene Therapy and Rethymic Treatment will be covered according to the Employee Benefit Plan. 
 
If the Contractholder elects to continue the Specific Benefit by applying for a new Contract (“Successor Contract”) with 
the Company that becomes effective immediately following expiration of th e existing Contract on or before th e existing 
Contract’s expiration date , the Company guarantees that a Successor Contract will contain no additional Special 
Limitations and no additional higher Specific Deductibles as a result of Gene Therapy or Rethymic Treatment for Covered 
Persons to whom no Special Limitations or higher Specific Deductible as a result of Gene Therapy or Rethymic 
Treatment apply under the Contract. If a Special Limitation or higher Specific Deductible as a result of Gene Therapy or 
Rethymic Treatment applies to a Covered Person under the Contract it may also apply to the Covered Pe rson under a 
Successor Contract. Covered Persons may receive a Special Limitation or higher Specific Deductibles for the Successor 
Contract as a result of other known health conditions  unless otherwise exempted by the Specific Benefit Rate 
Stabilization Rider. 
 
This guarantee will not apply to a Covered Person if the Company determines that:  
(a) the Contractholder failed to disclose information, as required by the terms of the Contract, about that Covered 
Person; and  
(b) the Company would, had they known that information, have imposed a Special Limitation or a higher Specific 
Deductible as a result of Gene Therapy or Rethymic Treatment applicable to that Covered Person absent the 
provisions of this Endorsement. 
 
The Covered Persons Gene Therapy or Rethymic Treatment will not directly impact the Contractholder renewal rate. 
 
If there is other Gene Therapy or Rethymic Treatment coverage in place at the time of this Contract, the Company will 
pay secondary to the other program.   
 
 
 
CL-SL-1100-END-GRT 2 (12/23) 
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company  
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
Gene Therapy means a treatment or product used to modify or manipulate the expression of a gene or to alter the 
biological properties of living cells for therapeutic use. Gene Therapy not approved by the FDA, used to treat conditions 
not approved by the FDA , or used on Covered Persons not in the demographic group approved by the FDA are not 
covered under this Endorsement. 
 
Product means the Gene Therapy and Rethymic Treatment which is administered to the patient.  It does not include 
the administration of the therapy.  
 
Rethymic Treatment  means tissue-based treatment of pediatric patients with congenital athymia . Treatments not 
approved by the FDA, used to treat conditions not approved by the FDA, or used on Covered Persons not in the 
demographic group approved by the FDA are not covered under this Endorsement. The approval of Rethymic Treatment 
for a Covered Person requires notification to the Company at least two weeks prior to the Covered Person receiving the 
Rethymic Treatment.  
 
Except as stated in this Endorsement, nothing contained herein shall be deemed to alter or affect any of the provisions 
of the Contract. 
 
In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of this Endorsement and the Contract, this Endorsement will 
prevail. 
 
This Endorsement does not waive any Contract exclusions or limitations, or other defenses or Contract rights provided 
the Company under the Contract by reference or to which it is attached. This Endorsement does not waive any rights 
afforded the Company by any state or federal law. 
 
This Endorsement is made part of the Contract to which it is attached. 
 
 
 
       
 
 
J. Anderson Folsom 
President 

CL-SL-1100-RIDER-LIMITEDEX 1  (11/21) 
  ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
 
Companion Life Insurance Company 
Post Office Box 100102 
Columbia, South Carolina 29202 
(803) 735-1251 
 
 
LIMITED EXCLUSIONS RIDER  
 
 
Contract No.:    CLI 51,219 
Contract Effective Date:   July 1, 2025 
Contractholder:    City of Cheyenne 
Rider Effective Date:  July 1, 2025 
 
This Rider modifies the Contract identified above. 
 
The Company hereby agrees to accept as Eligible Claim Payments all Employee Benefit Plan benefit(s) Paid by the 
Contractholder, provided that such benefits are: 
 
1. Paid in accordance with the terms of the Employee Benefit Plan; 
2. Incurred and Paid within the Contract Basis as defined in the Schedule;  
3. Paid under a covered benefit provided by the Contract, as defined in the Schedule, and;  
4. Not the result of any of the following: 
a. payment not in strict compliance with the terms and conditions of the Employee Benefit Plan or in excess 
of the amount allowable under the Employee Benefit Plan; 
b. payment arising out of or caused by or contributed to or in consequence of war, hostilities (whether war be 
declared or not), invasion or civil war; 
c. payment by the Contractholder of expenses related to or resulting from any litigation concerning the 
Employee Benefit Plan, including, but not limited to, attorneys’ fees and costs, extra -contractual damages, 
compensatory damages and punitive damages; 
d. expenses associated with the administration of the Employee Benefit Plan including, but not limited to, 
Administrator fees, PPO access fees, PBM administration fees, medical review and consultant fees, unless 
otherwise covered under the Contract; or 
e. expenses for a transplant(s) if the Employee Benefit Plan has a separate insurance policy that includes 
coverage for transplants. 
 
Written notice of any material change to the Employee Benefit Plan must be provided to the Company as shown in the 
Amendments to the Employee Benefit Plan provision of the Contract. If the Company does not accept, in writing, the 
changes made to the Employee Benefit Plan, the Company will apply the terms and conditions of the Plan that existed prior 
to any such change. 
 
In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of this Rider and the Contract, this Rider will prevail.  
 
Payment of premium on or after the effective date of the Rider shall constitute acceptance by the Contractholder of the 
modifications contained herein. 
 
Except as stated in this Rider, nothing contained herein shall be deemed to alter or affect any of the provisions of the 
Contract. 
 
Renewal of this Rider is not automatic but is available if permitted by the Company.  
 
                                                                     
 
J. Anderson Folsom 
President 
 
e. Companion Life 
CL-SL-1100-RIDER-RATESTAB 1  (11/21) 
   ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
 
Companion Life Insurance Company 
Post Office Box 100102 
Columbia, South Carolina 29202 
(803) 735-1251 
 
 
SPECIFIC BENEFIT RATE STABILIZATION RIDER 
 
 
Contract No.:     CLI 51,219 
Contract Effective Date:   July 1, 2025 
Contractholder:    City of Cheyenne 
Rider Effective Date:  July 1, 2025 
 
This Rider modifies the Contract identified above. 
 
In consideration of the Contractholder’s Application and the Current Specific Benefit Premium Surcharge this Rider 
adds the following provisions to the Contract:  
 
Specific Benefit Rate Stabilization 
If the Contractholder elects to continue the Specific Benefit by applying for a Contract with the Company 
that becomes effective immediately following expiration of the Contract (the “Successor Contract”) on or 
before the Contract’s expiration date, the Company guarantees that premium for the same Specific Benefit 
provided by the Successor Contract will not exceed the Specific Benefit premium for the Contract by more 
than the Maximum Premium Increase Percentage shown below. 
 
If an Aggregating Specific Deductible option has been selected, the Aggregating Specific Deductible is 
subject to the same percentage increase as the Specific Benefit premium.   
 
If the Contractholder changes the terms of the Specific Benefit in the Successor Contract, or if the 
underlying Employee Benefit Plan changes, the Company will determine the maximum premium increase 
by: 
(a)   calculating what the Specific Benefit premium would have been for the Contract, had  
 the requested changes been included in the Contract; and 
(b)    applying the Maximum Premium Increase Percentage to that Specific Benefit premium to 
determine the maximum Specific Benefit premium for the Successor Contract.  
 
Special Limitations  
  The Company guarantees that a Successor Contract will contain no additional Special Limitations and no 
additional higher Specific Deductibles for Covered Persons to whom no Special Limitations or higher 
Specific Deductible apply under the Contract. If a Special Limitation or higher Specific Deductible applies 
to a Covered Person under the Contract it may also apply to the Covered Person under a Successor 
Contract.  
 
This guarantee will not apply to a Covered Person if the Company determines that:  
(a)    the Contractholder failed to disclose information, as required by the terms of the Contract, about 
that Covered Person; and  
(b)    the Company would, had they known that information, have imposed a Special Limitation or  
a higher Specific Deductible applicable to that Covered Person absent the provisions of this 
Rider. 
 
 Maximum Premium Increase Percentage ……………………………….40% 
 
  
e. Companion Life 
CL-SL-1100-RIDER-RATESTAB 2  (11/21) 
   ISU, a division of Companion Life Insurance Company 
 
 
 
 
This Rider is a part of the Contract by reference or to which it is attached. If the Contract terminates for any reason this 
Rider terminates simultaneously. 
 
Payment of premium on or after the effective date of this Rider shall constitute acceptance by the Contractholder of the 
modifications contained herein. 
 
Except as stated in this Rider, nothing contained herein shall be deemed to alter or affect any of the provisions of the 
Contract. 
 
Renewal of this Rider is not automatic but is available if permitted by the Company.  
 
         
       
J. Anderson Folsom 
President 
 

NPP revised 01/2019 -1- V1.0  
NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES 
 
 
THIS NOTICE DESCRIBES HOW MEDICAL INFORMATION ABOUT YOU MAY BE USED AND 
DISCLOSED AND HOW YOU CAN GET ACCESS TO THIS INFORMATION. PLEASE REVIEW IT 
CAREFULLY. 
 
 
Our Privacy Promise 
We understand the importance of handling your medical information with care. We are committed to protecting 
the privacy of your medical information. State and federal laws require us to make sure that your medical 
information is kept private. Federal law requires that we provide you with this Notice of Privacy Practices, 
which describes our legal duties and privacy practices with respect to your medical information and your legal 
rights with respect to our use and disclosure of your medical information. We are required by law to follow the 
terms of the Notice currently in effect. This Notice is effective September 23, 2013, and will remain in effect 
until it is changed or replaced. 
 
We reserve the right to change our privacy practices and the terms of this notice at any time, as long as the law 
allows. These changes will be effective for all medical information that we keep, including medical information 
we created or received before we made the changes. When we make a material change to our privacy practices, 
we will provide a copy of a new notice (or information about the changes to our privacy practices and how to 
obtain a new notice) in a mailing to members who are covered under our health plans at that time. 
 
 
 
Uses and Disclosures of Medical Information 
Treatment, Payment, Health Care Operations 
We may use and disclose your medical information for purposes of treatment, payment and health care 
operations. 
 
Treatment: We may disclose your medical information to a physician or other health care professional to 
help him or her provide your treatment. 
 
Payment: We may use or disclose your medical information for these and other activities related to 
payment: 
• Paying claims from physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. 
• Obtaining premiums. 
• Issuing explanations of benefits to the named insured. 
• Providing information to health care professionals or other entities that are bound by the federal 
Privacy Rules for their payment activities. 
 
Health Care Operations: We may use or disclose your medical information in the normal course of 
conducting health care operations, including such activities as: 
• Quality assessment and improvement activities. 
• Reviewing the qualifications of health care professionals. 
• Compliance and detection of fraud and abuse. 
• Underwriting, enrollment and other activities related to creating, renewing or replacing a plan of 
benefits. We may not, however, use or disclose genetic information for underwriting purposes. 
• Providing information to another entity bound by the federal Privacy Rules for its health care 
operations, in limited circumstances. 
NPP revised 01/2019 -2- V1.0  
You and Your Family and Friends 
We may use and disclose your medical information to communicate with you for purposes of customer service  
or to provide you with information you request. We may disclose your medical information to a family member, 
friend or other person to the extent necessary for him or her to assist with your health care or payment for your 
health care. Before we disclose your medical information to that person, we will give you a chance to object to 
us doing so. If you are not available, or if you are incapacitated or in an emergency situation, we may, in the 
exercise of our professional judgment, determine whether the disclosure would be in your best interest. We may 
also use or disclose your medical information to notify (or help notify, including identifying and locating) a 
family member, a personal representative or other person responsible for your care of your location, general 
condition or death. 
 
Your Employer or Organization Sponsoring Your Group Health Plan 
We may disclose summary information and enrollment information to your employer (or other plan sponsor). 
Summary information is a summary of the claims history, claims expenses or types of claims that members of 
your group health plan have filed. The summary information will not include demographic information about 
you or others in the group health plan, but your employer or plan sponsor may be able to identify individuals 
from the summary information provided. 
 
Disaster Relief 
We may use or disclose your medical information to a public or private entity authorized by law or by its charter 
to assist in disaster relief efforts. 
 
Public Benefit 
We may use or disclose our members’ medical information as authorized by law for the following purposes that 
are in the public interest or benefit: 
• As required by law. 
• For public health activities, including disease and vital statistics reporting, child abuse reporting, FDA 
oversight, and to employers regarding work-related illness or injury. 
• To report adult abuse, neglect or domestic violence. 
• To health oversight agencies. 
• In response to court and administrative orders and other lawful processes. 
• To law enforcement officials in response to subpoenas and other lawful processes concerning crime 
victims, suspicious deaths, crimes on our premises, reporting crimes in emergencies and to identify or 
locate a suspect or other person. 
• To coroners, medical examiners and funeral directors. 
• To organ procurement organizations. 
• To avert a serious threat to health or safety. 
• In connection with certain research activities. 
• To the military and to federal officials for lawful intelligence, counterintelligence and national security 
activities. 
• To correctional institutions regarding inmates. 
• As authorized by state workers’ compensation laws. 
 
Your Authorization 
We may not use or disclose your medical information without your written authorization, except as described in 
this notice. You may give us written authorization to use your medical information or to disclose it to anyone for 
any purpose. If you give us authorization, you may revoke it at any time by notifying us of your revocation in 
writing. Your revocation will not affect any use or disclosure permitted by the authorization while it was in effect. 
We need your written authorization to use or disclose psychotherapy notes, except in limited circumstances    
such as when a disclosure is required by law. We also must obtain your written authorization to sell                
your medical information to a third party or, in most circumstances, to send you communications about    
products and services. We do not need your written authorization, however, to send you communications about 
health-related products or services, as long as the products or services are associated with your coverage or are 
offered by us. 
NPP revised 01/2019 -3- V1.0  
Individual Rights 
You have certain rights with respect to the medical information we maintain about you. To exercise any of these 
rights or to obtain more information about these rights (including any applicable fees), contact us using the 
information listed at the end of this notice. 
 
 
 
Access 
You have the right to inspect or receive a paper or electronic copy of your medical information, with some 
exceptions. To inspect or receive your medical information, you must submit the request in writing. If you 
request to receive a copy of your records, we are allowed to charge a reasonable, cost-based fee. 
 
Disclosure Accounting 
You have the right to request, in writing, a record of instances in which we (or our business associates) disclosed 
your medical information for purposes other than treatment, payment, health care operations, and as allowed by 
law. We will provide you with a record of such disclosures for up to the previous six years. If you request a 
record of disclosures more than once in a 12-month period, we may charge you a reasonable, cost-based fee for 
each additional request. 
 
Restriction 
You have the right to request, in writing, that we place additional restrictions on our use or disclosure of your 
medical information. By law, we are not required to agree to these additional restrictions, but if we do, we will 
abide by our agreement (except in an emergency). Any agreement to additional restrictions will be made in 
writing and signed by a person authorized to make such an agreement for us. 
 
Confidential Communications 
You have the right to request, in writing, that we communicate with you about your medical information by   
other means, or to another location. We are not required to agree to your request unless you state that you could 
be in danger if we do not communicate to you in confidence. In that case, we must accommodate your request if 
it is reasonable, if it specifies the other means or location, and if it permits us to continue to collect premiums   
and pay claims under your health plan. We will not be bound to your request unless our agreement is in writing. 
 
Even if we agree to communicate with you in confidence, an explanation of benefits we issue to the named 
insured for health care services the named insured (or others covered by the health plan) received might contain 
sufficient information (such as deductible and out-of-pocket amounts) to reveal that you obtained health care 
services for which we paid. 
 
Amendment 
You have the right to request, in writing, that we amend your medical information. Your request must explain 
why we should amend the information. We may deny your request if we did not create the information you want 
amended and the person or entity that did create it is available, or we may deny your request for certain other 
reasons. If we deny your request, we will send you a written explanation. 
 
Notice of Breach 
We are required to notify affected individuals following a breach of unsecured medical information. 
NPP revised 01/2019 -4- V1.0  
Electronic Notice 
You may request a written copy of this notice at any time or download it from our website. 
 
Privacy Questions and Complaints 
 
If you want more information about our privacy practices, or if you have questions or concerns, please contact us 
using the information below. 
 
If you believe we may have violated your privacy rights, you may submit a complaint to us using the contact 
information listed below. You also may submit a written complaint to the U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services. We will provide you with that address upon request. 
 
We support your right to the privacy of your medical information. We will not retaliate in any way if you choose 
to file a complaint with us or with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 
 
Contact Information 
Attn: Privacy Officer 
I 20 East @ Alpine Road (AX-E01) 
Columbia, SC 29219 
 
(803) 264-7258 (telephone) 
(803) 264-7257 (fax) 