





^ remix
Impact and Savings for Cheyenne Transit
Below is a high-level overview of Cheyenne Transit planning priorities, and the
potential impact by investing in Remix.
i Planning
Priority
Transit system
overview - provide
service in new
areas, find
efficiencies In
current network
Current Process at
Cheyenne Transit
• Network has not changed in
many years
• No formal tool to start
evaluating network and
proposing changes. Current
planning is manual with pen
+ paper
• Demographic analysis
requires back and forth
between agency + MPO's
CIS specialist
Savings + Impact with Case Study
Remix
$75-300k/yr
Can complete study in-
house efficiently and
accurately
• COTA
• TransLink(QLD}
Collaboration +
communication
• Any change must go through
public hearing +
presentations with council
and finance committee
• Council doesn't necessarily
have transit knowledge but it
would be great to have their
buy-in
80% time savings
for staff
+25% increase In
engagement
2-week tasks can be done in
2 days
Better informed
stakeholders, no additional
staff
C-TRAN
BJCTA
^ remix
Measurable and Proven Results
We've worked with 200+ agencies and documented their return on investment (ROI).
Agency
MIAMIDADE
COUNTY
Use Case
Miami-Dade Transit planned a new service +
better optimized vehicle requirements
Mpo
Aucidand Transport conducted scenario
planning for transit network analysis in
Hibiscus Coast area
Indy MPO researched, designed, and planned
Hamilton County's fixed-route service for a
referendum and tax proposal
Impact & Savings
$4M saved In capital costs
By foregoing 10 new buses while still providing the
same level of service
12X Increase In staff productivity
Saved 240 hours in staff time for scenario planning
(92% reduction, from 252 hrs •+ 20}
Torrance Transit analyzed Rapid and Local
bus network to optimize operational costs
and cut redundancy on 2 routes
$150K+ saved In consultant fees
By increasing staff capacity through using Remix in-
house
$550K saved in operating costs
And invested in weekend service as a result
f^ws/r AC Transit reimagined their bus network after ! 24x Increase In route scenario productivity
a ballot measure expanded their operating [ Average iteration dropped from 1.5 days to 30
budget by 14% I minutes
4^
TRANSIT
Link Transit uses Remix to design detours,
conduct scenario planning, and connect the
urban core to rural areas
4x Improvement In time designing detours Average
route change dropped from 1 day of effort to 2
hours
King County King County Metro designed a long-range
METRO plan that will add 2.5 million service hours by
2040
C-Tran used Remix to-generate Title VI Service
W  ! Equity Analyses, and submitted successfully to
C-TRAN ™
Saved 6 months and 2 extra staff members
Built consensus during stakeholder review process
across 39 municipalities in only 6 months
30x Increase in productivity
Title VI analysis time dropped from 1 month to 1 day,
significantly increasing the number of service
improvements the agency could plan.
^ remix
Remix product versions Version launches and high-level product development
to date, 2014 through Jan 2017.
Sk«tch tf^resa
routes
ACS: ft}pij]atioA Density,
Minoraies, Sonlor Citizopts,
Limited English Profidon^ Zeco
Vehicle HH, Olsabilrty Youth.
L£HO: Jobs. Populat>on ^ Jobs
SVttueli»
fromGTR
Vtsue^te end refine
needs'
Innt out4|
fbrmetred
Spk lines inthemiddle.Ql
routes f,directiyedit
GrTFS stoplDs in the
platfdiw 'c; !>''
Improved user eipenence
wHh edfting/con^gumg
right hand side panels
Download mapsmep.s8ve
«sPDF high-res PNG
Share wHhkey
stekeholden whh a link,
get feedback with a cRek See all /oulevananh;
branching, shoillining
Improved drawjno w input own
radius for
demo^phlc
analyw
Gives users more
conPol over how
coets areestimated
pms; autometicallyGenerate census-
based service
artelysrs In <tOmKi,
using best practices
mdude existing stop
infrasiruclure:
stoplO. lal/lona
Jane: isochrone /
accessibility index
Show how far a rider can Crwel
in 15,10.43, arid POminudng
transit and walking
Cce^Flgure con ionmila with
'Sat« Sur> rHimbera; import
custom dale Layers as
polygorhbased shapefilos
NOV JAN
2015 >
shift-to-fiy
regional
QTFS
export Jane
to shapefile
Jane travels on weekends
and different times of day
"whafs
nearby*
JAN
2016 >
stops export + input your own
si^P' ® interactive graphs timesforJane
feedback
advanced
Custom layers
ar^orts to Excel, shapefile,
' ffequency-based GITS, KML Improved routing to busrorily custom line
directions estimate stops,! Jboiindadai
custom line
colors
network
level stats
remix
Background on Remix Web-Based Versions
Because Remix is Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), we constantly build new features and
improvements. Over time, you can expect to get more value out of the platform.
Continuous improvement is our simple model.
Traditional companies charge a large upfront cost for software, yearly maintenance fees, and additional customer service
fees. Whenever a new software version comes out, these companies restart the process and charge all over again. Remix
believes in continuous improvement of our software and a simple subscription model to support it.
Invest once and get all new versions of Remix.
Because Remix is web-based, we can release features anytime. Since 2014, Remix has released 15 versions of the
product and has added 40+ new features or product improvements. All of these product improvements are released to
all of our customers. We want to provide you with the full functionality of Remix, always.
We Improve because we listen.
Most of what we build comes directly from customer feedback. We release small improvements every week, and we ship
big features at least once per quarter.
Our SaaS philosophy allows continual investment in our product.
We expect to release several major versions every year. Agencies who join Remix later in the year may see a different
quote from earlier estimates because they are coming on board with the most valuable, up-to-date version of Remix.
Once on board, agencies will get all additional features and product improvements at no additional cost for the duration
of their Remix agreement. That's our software-as-a-service philosophy, which allows us to continuously invest in making
the product better and provide the most value to our customers.
Why do our customers choose to invest In multi-year deals?
1. They can easily forecast the cost of Remix in the future budget
2. All new features are included in the price
3. No increase in costs if their fleet size increases
SS remix
Remix Proposal for Cheyenne Transit
Prepared for Tom Mason and Renae Jording, Cheyenne Transit By Janice, Remix (janice@remix.com). Date: 28 MAR 2017
What do I get with A full transit planning platform for your entire agency. It's an annual
a Remix License? subscription for unlimited users, and includes:
Fast and accurate sketch planning using existing stop infrastructure
Instant demographic impact analysis
Instant cost estimates
Unlimited exports (excel, shapefile, KML, frequency-based GTFS, high-resolution image)
Unlimited custom data layers (polygon-based shapefiles)
Unlimited GTFS uploads
Public engagement and share features
Travel-time isochrone visualizations
Title VI Engine (US) - generate a service equity analysis in less than 10 minutes
Consistent and regular product improvements / feature launches
Customer support? Our Success Team brings years of transit experience and works with you to
develop a customized Success Plan. Each plan has three parts:
1. Onboard (First 60 Days); Identify a first project and work on it together.
- Workshops, Project-Assisted Training, Individual Sessions, Video Guides
2. Plan (Months 2+); Bring your plans to life with Remix.
- Regular Check-ins, Best Practices Blog, Remix Webinars, Remix Conference
3. Measure Results (Months 6+): Document your return on investment (ROI).
- Develop ROI Report, Set Yearly Goals, Manage Renewal, Plan Ahead
Technical
requirements?
Remix is entirely web-based and software-as-a-service (SaaS).
Everything is in the cloud ~ no installations or downloads. Can access from anywhere.
Every user gets a login + password
Remix works on the latest version of any browser
Agency-wide annual subscription ~ no maintenance fees.
Every time we update the platform and launch a new feature, you'll see it the next time you log
In. We launched 40+ new features within the last 12 months, rolled out to all customers
K remix
Remix Pricing Summary for Cheyenne Transit
28 MAR 2017.Pricing Is applicable until October 31, 2018. Our pricing Is based on the total size of your fixed-route vehicle fleet.
Efl«ctive Date
Commitment Term
Remix License
One-Tlme Setup
October 1st, 2018
1 year + 1 option year
Marketing Terms
Year-to-Year Pricing
$10,000 USD per year, based on a total fixed route fleet of 10
• Remix licenses for an unlimited number of users within organization.
• Software as a Service (SaaS): fully hosted, cloud-based web platform.
• Dedicated Customer Success staff.
• Enterprise Support; response to requests in 1 business day.
if Purchase Order is executed by September 21, 2018.
• Provide onboarding and training for all staff.
• Create user accounts.
• Process latest GTFS and any custom data.
Willingness to work with Remix to develop a case study, mutually agreeable press release,
ability to use Customer as a reference.
$11,000 if 1 year contract (+10%)
This Services Agreement ("Agreement") is entered between Remix Software, Inc. ("Company"), and the Customer listed below ("Customer"), as of the
Effective Date. This Agreement includes the above licenses and support (the "Services") and incorporates the above Pricing Summary as well as the
Terms and Conditions available at www.remix.com/terms and contains, among other things, warranty disclaimers, liability limitations and use
limitations. There shall be no force or effect to any different terms of any related purchase order or similar form even if signed by the parties after the
date hereof.
Cheyenne Transit
Signature:
} jransii
Name:
Title Date: Wit'
Remix Software, Inc.
Signature:
Name:
Title: Date:,
Please complete Accounts Payable information legibly:
Billing Contact Name: CJorrtC il: Phone: f
Renewal #6 of the Remix Services Agreement for Cheyenne Transit
RemixTechnologies LLC("Rem/x") and Cheyenne Transit ("Cosfo/ner"andtogetherwlth Remix, the
'"Pcrrffes") have entered Into an agreement titled Remix Proposal for Cheyenne Transit dated as of October 1,
2018, and extended by the Remix License Summary for Cheyenne Transit dated as of October 1, 2019, and
extended again by the Remix Services Agreement dated as of October 1, 2020, and extended again the Remix
License Summary for Cheyenne Transit dated as of October 1, 2021, and extended again by the Renewal of
the Remix Services Agreement for Cheyenne Transit dated as of October 1, 2022, and extended again by the
Renewal of the Remix Services Agreement for Cheyenne Transit dated as of October 1, 2023. Upon execution
of this Renewal (the "Renewal'), the Parties agree to the following:
1. Renewal. With effect from July 1,2024 (the "Effective Date") the Parties hereby agree to extend the
duration of the Agreement beyond its original duration from the Effective date for a period of 1 year
until June 30, 2025.
2. Price. The Parties hereby agree to the following price structure:
Remix Transit Planning
Platform License
Marketing Terms
Additional Services
Payment Terms
Total Contract Value: $12,100 USD / 1 year.
2026; $12,100 USD per year
Pricing valid If signed by June 30,2024.i
Includes:
•  Remix licenses for an unlimited number of users within an organization.
•  Software as a Service (SaaS); fully hosted, cloud-based web platform.
•  Platform functionality as described in the Agreement with continuous improvements
released throughout the course of the contract
•  Dedicated Customer Success staff
•  Premium Enterprise Support: response to requests In 1 business day
Willingness to work with Remix to develop a case study, mutually agreeable press release,
ability to use Customer as a reference.
Customer acknowledges that additional services, such as access to Company's (Including its
affiliates) proprietary technology platform used to establish, monitor, operate and/or manage
fixed-route and demand responsive transit networks, may be added to this Agreement at an
additional cost during the Term.
Fees Invoiced annually in advance of access, payable in 30 days from the date of invoice.
3. Conflicts, Use of Terms, Governing Law. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the
meanings set forth in the Agreement. Except as expressly provided herein, the terms and conditions
of the Agreement remain unchanged. This Renewal will be governed by the same law as the
Agreement.
REMIX TECHNOLOGIES LLC CHEYENNE TRANSIT
By:
Name:
Title:
Date:
By: R,
Nam'
Title: TTtXPi^iC-f- £liY
Date
■ ^In]2dz4-
Remix Billing Information
Attn
Accounts Receivable
Address
114 Fifth Avenue, Floor 17
New York, NY 10011
Email
AR@ridewithvia.com
Customer Billing Information
Attn
Address
Email
rjorriLn^^p 0 he^jlll^yY^ox.'hj, Or^
Phone