 
2101 O’Neil Ave. · Cheyenne · Wyoming  
Phone 307.63 8.438 5  
www.plancheyenne.org  
 
 
MEMO  
TO: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
FROM: Christopher Yaney MPO Director, Cheyenne MPO 
DATE: May 6, 2025 
SUBJECT: Professional Services Agreement for Safe Streets for All Comprehensive Action 
Safety Plan  
______________________________________________________________________________ 
 
 
The Cheyenne MPO is thrilled to be awarded a Safe Streets for All Comprehensive Action Safety Plan  
grant award through U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration Office of Safety 
for a Safe Streets for All Comprehensive Action Safety Plan . The Safe Streets for All Comprehensive 
Action Safety Plan is a powerful way to prioritize safety improvements and justify investment decisions  
within the MPO boundary.  
  
A Request for Proposals was put out on the PlanCheyenne website as well as advertising on the Association 
of Metropolitan Planning Organization’s (AMPO) website. We received five (5) proposals and the selection 
team evaluated all consultants’ proposals. Felsburg Holt & Ullevig (FHU) was selected as the best qualified.  
 
The purpose of this Professional Services Agreement with Felsburg Holt & Ullevig (FHU)  is to have the 
basic building block to significantly improve roadway safety by reducing and eliminating serious injury 
and fatal crashes, communicating and collaborating with stakeholders and community members, and 
providing information on funding opportunities  for moving forward into implementation as part of this 
plan. 
 
This contract is not-to-exceed the amount of $250,000.00 with the portions of the funding as 
follows: 
 
$200,000 SS4A Grant Funding Amount (must have 9.51% local match) 
$32,500 City local match 
$17,500 Laramie County local match 
 
The Policy Committee has approved this contract and FHWA has approved the MPO to take this 
through City Council.  
 
Please reach out to me directly if you have any questions regarding this contract.  I can be reached at 638-
4308 and cyaney@cheyennempo.org. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 1 of 21 
City Contract # __________ 
MPO Contract # __________ 
 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
for the 
Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
 
PREAMBLE 
 
 THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this  _____ day of _____________, 2025, 
by and between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization, hereinafter 
referred to as the “MPO”, located at 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 304, Cheyenne, WY 82001, and 
Felsburg Holt & Ullevig (FHU) , hereinafter referred to as “ Consultant”, located at 6400 South 
Fiddlers Green Circle, Suite 1500, Greenwood Village, CO 80111. The City of Cheyenne is acting 
as the agent of the MPO for contract administration and as the MPO’s Fiscal Manager in 
accordance with Contract #6111. 
 
AGREEMENT 
In consideration of the mutual covenants and obligations herein expressed, it is agreed by 
and between the parties as follows: 
 
1. SCOPE OF WORK. The Consultant agrees to provide services as described for the above-
mentioned project, in accordance with the Scope of W ork attached hereto as Exhibit A, 
incorporated by reference and expressly made a part hereof. 
 
2. TIME OF PERFORMANCE. The work included in this Scope of Work will be completed 
in accordance with the Project Schedule attached hereto as Exhibit B, incorporated by 
reference and expressly made a part hereof. Any extensions in the project schedule shall be 
agreed upon in writing by the parties. 
 
3. COMPENSATION. In consideration of the services to be performed pursuant to this 
Agreement, the Consultant will bill the MPO and the MPO agrees to pay Consultant a total 
cost-not-to-exceed amount of  two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00), in 
accordance with the fee schedule provided in Exhibit C , which is attached to this 
Agreement, incorporated by reference, and expressly made a part hereof. The amounts of 
all such payments shall be based upon the Consultant’s progress, verified by the MPO, in 
completing the work as described in Exhibits A, B, and C . Final payment shall be made 
following acceptance of the work by the MPO. Original quality reproductions of all 
designs, plans, reports, specifications, drawings, and other services rendered b y the 
Consultant shall become the sole property of the MPO and shall be delivered to the MPO, 
immediately upon their preparation to the extent the MPO has satisfied its payment 
obligations to the Consultant. A portion of the payment may be held until any c laims are 
resolved. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 2 of 21 
4. CONSULTANT RESPONSIBILITY. The Consultant shall be responsible for the 
professional quality, technical accuracy, timely completion of drawings and other services 
rendered by the Consultant and its sub -consultants and shall, without additional 
compensation, promptly remedy and correc t any errors, omissions, or other deficiencies, 
except to the extent that such errors, omissions or other deficiencies arise from the digital 
data created by Cheyenne/Laramie County Cooperative Geographic Information System 
(CLCCGIS). 
 
In providing services under this Agreement, the Consultant shall perform in a manner 
consistent with that degree of care and skill ordinarily exercised by members of the same 
profession currently practicing under similar circumstances. Upon notice to the Consultant 
and by mutual agreement between the parties, the Consultant  will, without additional 
compensation, correct those services not meeting such a standard. 
 
5. GIS MAPS AND DIGITAL DATA. If the Consultant uses any maps, coverages, images, 
or other digital data created by the CLCCGIS for the project specified in Exhibit A, the 
Consultant agrees to return or destroy that information once the project is complete. 
Consultant agrees not to reuse or sell any GIS maps or data that were provided as a 
professional courtesy and to minimize the cost of the project. 
 
6. GIS DATA LIMITATION AND DISCLAIMED LIABILITY . GIS data is collected 
primarily for use by the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County. Any unauthorized use of 
the data is at the risk of the user.  
 
7. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE . In compliance with the Drug -Free Workplace Act of 
November 1988, the City of Cheyenne has established an Alcohol and Controlled 
Substance Policy that pertains to alcohol and drug usage by City employees. All architects, 
engineers, and other consultants under contract with City of Cheyenne, and their employees 
and sub-consultants, are required to comply with the provisions of the City ’s Alcohol and 
Controlled Substance Policy for drug and/or alcohol usage on City property or other sites 
occupied by the Consultant while performing the duties and resp onsibilities of the 
Agreement. It is the responsibility of the Consultant to familiarize themselves with the 
requirements of this policy and to inform all their employees and subconsultants of the 
requirements and ensure their compliance. If the Consultant, their employees, or sub -
consultants are found in violation of this policy, the Agreement may be terminated. 
 
8. INDEMNIFICATION/HOLD HARMLESS. The Consultant agrees to indemnify, hold 
harmless and defend the City from and against any and all liabilities, claims, penalties, 
forfeitures and suits, and the cost and expenses incident thereto, including reasonable 
attorney’s fees, which may hereafter arise as a result of death or bodily injury to any person, 
destruction or damage to any property, contamination of or adverse effects on the 
environment, or any violation of governmental laws, regulations or orders to the ext ent 
caused by (1) the Consultant’s breach of any term or provision of this Agreement; or (2) 
any negligent or wrongful act, error or omission by the Consultant, or its employees or sub-
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 3 of 21 
consultants in the performance of this Agreement. The Consultant acknowledges that it 
may incur a financial obligation to the City pursuant to the terms of this paragraph. 
 
9. INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS. The Consultant must provide proof of the following 
insurance coverages: 
 
Commercial General Liability Insurance. For claims arising out of bodily injury, illness 
or death, or from damage to or destruction of property of others, including loss or use 
thereof, with minimum limits of $1,000,000 per occurrence, $2,000,000 aggregate for the 
entire term of the Agreement. 
 
 Business Automobile Insurance. Including owned, non -owned and hired vehicles with 
minimum limits for bodily injury and property damage of $1,000,000 per accident for the 
entire term of the Agreement. 
 
 Workers’ Compensation. Workers’ compensation coverage shall be in effect for the entire 
term of the Agreement, as required by Wyoming law, for all employees or agents providing 
services under this Agreement. Consultant shall provide the City with proof of workers’ 
compensation or employer’s liability insurance coverage. 
 
Professional Liability Insurance . The Consultant shall provide proof of professional 
liability insurance or errors and omissions liability insurance in an amount not less than 
$500,000 to protect the City from any and all claims arising from the Consultant ’s 
negligence in the performance of duties under this Agreement. The City prefers that this 
liability insurance coverage be provided pursuant to an “occurrence” policy.  
 
If this coverage is provided pursuant to a “claims made” policy: 
A. Consultant shall, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, provide the 
City with a certificate of insurance demonstrating that such coverage is or shall be 
in effect at the time the Consultant begins the provision of se rvices under this 
Agreement; 
 
B. In the event the Consultant ’s services extend into a future policy period, the 
Consultant shall, prior to the policy expiration date, provide the City with a new 
certificate of insurance demonstrating that such coverage is or shall be in effect 
during all periods of time that Consult ant will provide ser vices under this 
Agreement; 
 
C. Consultant shall maintain said “claims made” coverage for a period of five (5) years 
following the last date that Consultant has provided services under this Agreement; 
and  
 
D. In the event the Consultant or the insurer terminates “claims made” coverage prior 
to the expiration of the periods provided in subparagraphs a., b., or c. of this 
paragraph, the Consultant shall provide to the City advance written notification of 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 4 of 21 
the termination of said coverage and shall provide the City with an endorsement for 
an extended reporting period (“tail coverage”) which shall be in effect for a period 
of time not less than five (5) years following the last date that Consultant has 
provided services under this Agreement. 
 
 Additional Insurance Information. The Consultant shall name the City of Cheyenne and 
the MPO as an Additional Insured  by endorsement on its insurance policies, with the 
exception of workers’ compensation and professional liability insurance and shall provide 
the City with a copy of the endorsements. 
 
Consultant shall provide the City with certificates of insurance acknowledging the above -
stated coverages prior to beginning any work under this Agreement. 
 
It is understood and agreed that these policies are primary and not contributory. All policies 
required under this Agreement shall be in effect for the duration of the Agreement. It shall 
be an affirmative obligation upon Consultant to immediately notify in writing the city risk 
manager, city clerk, and city attorney of any fact, circumstance, or occurrence that has 
resulted in or may result in the cancellation or substantive cha nge of any insur ance 
coverage required by this Agreement, and failure to do so shall be construed to be a breach 
of this Agreement. 
 
If requested by the City, the Consultant shall provide the City with copies of insurance 
policies and/or policy endorsements listing the City of Cheyenne as an additional insured. 
The City’s failure to request or review such policies, endorsements, or certificates shall not 
affect the City’s rights or Consultant’s obligation hereunder. 
 
Any insurance company providing coverage under this Agreement shall have a minimum 
A. M. Best rating of A- (excellent). 
 
10. MPO REPRESENTATIVE. Prior to commencement of work, the MPO will designate in 
writing an MPO Representative who shall make, within the scope of his/her authority, all 
necessary decisions regarding the project. All requests for contract interpretations, field 
orders, contract modifications, change orders, and other clarification or instruction shall be 
directed to the MPO Representative. 
 
11. MONTHLY REPORT. With every monthly billing, Consultant  shall provide the MPO 
Representative with a written statement of the status of the work with respect to the Scope 
of Work, time sheets, and work schedule. Failure to provide the required monthly report 
will delay processing of any payment request until the report is submitted. 
 
12. APPROV AL OF PLANS. The MPO ’s approval of drawings, designs, plans, 
specifications, reports, and incidental work or materials shall not in any way relieve the 
Consultant of responsibility for the technical accuracy of the work. The MPO ’s approval 
or acceptance of, or payment for, any of the services shall not be construed to operate as a 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 5 of 21 
waiver of any of the MPO ’s rights under this Agreement or any of its legal rights under 
statute or common law arising out of the performance of this Agreement. 
 
13. GOVERNMENTAL/SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY. The State of Wyoming, the Wyoming 
Department of Transportation ( WYDOT), the City of Cheyenne, and Laramie County, 
along with their officials and employees, do not waive their sovereign or governmental 
immunity by entering into this Agreement, and the MPO does not waive governmental 
immunity, except to the extent necessary for the parties to pursue a contract action to clarify 
or enforce the written terms of the agreement, and each specifically retains all immunities 
and defenses available to them as sovereigns or governmental entities pursuant to 
Wyo. Stat. § 1-39-101, et seq., and all other state law. Designations of venue, choice of law, 
enforcement actions, and similar provisions should not be constructed as a waiver of 
sovereign or governmental immunity. The parties agree that any ambiguity in this 
Agreement shall not be strictly construed, either against or for either party, except that any 
ambiguity as to governmental or sovereign immunity shall be construed in favor of 
sovereign or governmental immunity.  
 
14. NO GOVERNMENT OBLIGATION TO THIRD PARTIES.  
 
No Obligation by the Federal Government. 
 
A. The Consultant acknowledges and agrees that, notwithstanding any concurrence by 
the Federal Government in or approval of the solicitation or award of the underlying 
contract, absent the express written consent by the Federal Government, the Federal 
Government is not a party to this Agreement and shall not be subject to any 
obligations or liabilities to the Consultant, or any other party (whether or not a party 
to that contract) pertaining to any matter resulting from the underlying contract. 
 
B. The Consultant agrees to include the above clause in each subcontract financed in 
whole or in part with Federal assistance provided by the Federal Transit 
Administration (FTA). It is further agreed that the clause shall not be modified, 
except to identify the sub-consultant who will be subject to its provisions. 
 
15. PROGRAM FRAUD AND FALSE OR FRAUDULENT STATEMENTS AND 
RELATED ACTS. 
 
A. The Consultant acknowledges that the provisions of the Program Fraud Civil 
Remedies Act of 1986, as amended, 31 U.S.C. § 3801, et seq ., and U.S. DOT 
regulations, “Program Fraud Civil Remedies,” 49 CFR Part 31, apply to its actions 
pertaining to this Project. Upon execution of the underlying contract, the Consultant 
certifies or affirms the truthfulness and accuracy of any statement it has made, it 
makes, it may make, or causes to be made, pertaining to the underlying contract or 
the FTA assisted project for  which this contract work is being performed. In 
addition to other penalties that may be applicable, the Consultant further 
acknowledges that if it makes, or causes to be made, a false, fictitious, or fraudulent 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 6 of 21 
claim, statement, submission, or certification, the Federal Government reserves the 
right to impose the penalties of the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986 on 
the Consultant to the extent the Federal Government deems appropriate. 
 
B. The Consultant also acknowledges that if it makes, or causes to be made, a false, 
fictitious, or fraudulent claim, statement, submission, or certification to the Federal 
Government under a contract connected with a project that is financed in whole or 
in part with Federal assistance originally awarded by FTA under the authority of 49 
U.S.C. § 5307, the Government reserves the right to impose the penalties of 18 
U.S.C. § 1001 and 49 U.S.C. § 5307(n)(1) on the Consultant, to the extent the 
Federal Government deems appropriate. 
 
C. The Consultant agrees to include the above two clauses in each sub -contract 
financed in whole or in part with Federal assistance provided by FTA. It is further 
agreed that the clauses shall not be modified, except to identify the sub -consultant 
who will be subject to the provisions. 
 
16. FEDERAL CHANGES.  Consultant shall at all times comply with 49 CFR Part 18 and 
all applicable FTA regulations, policies, procedures , and directives  including, without 
limitation, those listed directly or by reference in the Agreement (Form FTA MA (18), dated 
October 2011) between consultant and FTA, as they may be amended or promulgated from 
time to time d uring the term of this Agreement.  Consultant’s failure to so comply shall 
constitute a material breach of this Agreement. 
 
17. INCORPORATION OF FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (FTA) TERMS. 
FTA Circular 4220.1F 
 
Applicability:  The incorporation of FTA terms applies to all contracts. 
The preceding provisions include, in part, certain Standard Terms and Conditions required 
by DOT, whether or not expressly set forth in the preceding contract provisions. All 
contractual provisions required by DOT, as set forth in FTA Circular 4220.1F, are hereby 
incorporated by reference. Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, all FTA 
mandated terms shall be deemed to control in the event of a conflict with other provisions 
contained in this Agreement. The Consultant shall not perform any act, fail to perform any 
act, or refuse to comply with any City of Cheyenne requests which would cause City of 
Cheyenne to be in violation of the FTA terms and conditions. 
 
18. PRIV ACY ACT. (5 U.S.C. § 552) 
 
Applicability:  The Federal Privacy Act requirements flow down to each third-party 
Consultant and their contracts at every tier.  
The following requirements apply to the Consultant and its employees that administer any 
system of records on behalf of the Federal Government under any contract: 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 7 of 21 
A. The Consultant agrees to comply with, and assures the compliance of its employees 
with, the information restrictions and other applicable requirements of the Privacy 
Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. § 552a. Among other things, the Consultant agrees to obtain 
the expr ess consent of the Federal Government before the Consultant, or its 
employees operate a system of records on behalf of the Federal Government. The 
Consultant understands that the requirements of the Privacy Act, including the civil 
and criminal penalties for violations of that Act, apply to those individuals involved, 
and that failure to comply with the terms of the privacy Act may result in 
termination of the underlying contract. 
 
B. The Consultant also agrees to include these requirements in each sub -contract to 
administer any system of records on behalf of the Federal Government financed in 
whole or in part with Federal assistance provided by FTA. 
 
19. WYOMING DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION REQUIRED TERMS. 
  
The below General Provisions shall also apply to all subconsultants engaged by the 
Consultant: 
 
A. Administration of Federal Funds.  The Consultant agrees its use of the funds 
awarded herein is subject to the Uniform Administrative Requirements of 2 CFR 
Part 200, et seq.; any additional requirements set forth by the federal funding 
agency; all applicable regulations published in the Cod e of Federal Regulations; 
and other program guidance as provided to it by WYDOT. 
 
B. Amendments. Any changes, modifications, revisions or amendments to this 
Agreement which are mutually agreed upon by the parties to this Agreement shall 
be incorporated by written instrument, executed by all parties to this Agreement. 
 
C. Applicable Law, Rules of Construction, and Venue.  The construction, 
interpretation and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of 
the State of Wyoming without regard to conflicts of law principles. The terms 
“hereof,” “hereunder,” “herein,” and words of similar import, are intended to refer 
to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision or part. The courts 
of the State of Wyoming shall have jurisdiction over this Agreement and the parties. 
The venue shall be the First Judicial District, Laramie County, Wyoming. 
 
D. Assignment Prohibited and Agreement Shall Not be Used as Collateral. Neither 
party shall assign or otherwise transfer any of the rights or delegate any of the duties 
set out in this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party. The 
Consultant shall not use this Agreement, or any portion thereof, for colla teral for 
any financial obligation without the prior written permission of WYDOT. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 8 of 21 
E. Auditing and Accounting. The Consultant shall make available to the Cheyenne 
MPO their accounting records for progress and post -performance audits when 
deemed necessary by the Cheyenne MPO. 
 
F. Availability of Funds.  Each payment obligation of the Cheyenne MPO is 
conditioned upon the availability of government funds which are appropriated or 
allocated for the payment of this obligation and which may be limited for any 
reason including, but not limited to, congressiona l, legislative, gubernatorial, or 
administrative action. If funds are not allocated and available for the continued 
performance of the Agreement, the Agreement may be terminated by the Cheyenne 
MPO at the end of the period for which the funds are available. The Cheyenne MPO 
shall notify the Consultant at the earliest possible time of the services which will or 
may be affected by a shortage of funds. No penalty shall accrue to the Cheyenne 
MPO in the event this provision is exercised, a nd the Cheyenne MPO shall not be 
obligated or liable for any future payments due or for any damages as a result of 
termination under this section. 
This provision shall not be construed to permit the Cheyenne MPO to terminate this 
Agreement to acquire similar services from another party. 
 
G. Independent Consultant.  The Consultant shall function as an independent 
consultant for the purposes of this Agreement. The Consultant shall assume sole 
responsibility for any debts or liabilities that may be incurred by the Consultant in 
fulfilling the terms of this Agreement. N othing in this Agreement shall be 
interpreted as authorizing the Consultant or its agents or employees to act as an 
agent or representative of or on behalf of the MPO or to incur any obligation of any 
kind on the behalf of the MPO. 
 
H. Notices. All notices arising out of, or from, the provisions of this Agreement shall 
be in writing either by regular mail or delivery in person at the addresses provided 
under this Agreement. 
 
I. Prior Approval. This Agreement shall not be binding upon either party, no services 
shall be performed under the terms of this Agreement, and the Wyoming State 
Auditor shall not draw warrants for payment on this Agreement until this 
Agreement has been reduced to writing, a pproved as to form by the Office of the 
Attorney General, and approved by the Governor of the State of Wyoming, or his 
designee, if required by Wyo. Stat. § 9-2-1016(b)(iv). 
 
J. Severability. Should any portion of this Agreement be judicially determined to be 
illegal or unenforceable, the remainder of the Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect, and either party may renegotiate the terms affected by the severance. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 9 of 21 
K. Taxes. The Consultant agrees to pay all valid taxes, excises, license fees, permit 
fees, bills, debts and obligations incurred by in connection with its operations under 
this Agreement. 
 
L. Third-Party Beneficiary Rights. The parties do not intend to create in any other 
individual or entity the status of third -party beneficiary, and this Agreement shall 
not be construed so as to create such status. The rights, duties, and obligations 
contained in this Agreement shall opera te only between the parties to this 
Agreement and shall inure solely to the benefit of the parties to this Agreement. The 
provisions of this Agreement are intended only to assist the parties in determining 
and performing their obligations under this Agreement. 
 
20. FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
The below General Provisions shall also apply to all subconsultants engaged by the 
Consultant. 
 
A. ASSUMPTION OF RISK .  The Consultant shall assume the risk of any loss of 
state or federal funding, either administrative or program dollars, due to the 
Consultant’s failure to comply with state or federal requirements. The Cheyenne 
MPO shall notify the Consultant of any state or federal determination of 
noncompliance. 
 
B. ACCESS TO RECORDS.  The Cheyenne MPO and its representatives shall have 
access to any books, documents, papers, electronic data, and records of the 
Consultant which are pertinent to this Agreement. 
 
C. BREACH OF AGREEMENT.  The Consultant agrees to provide all professional 
services as required by the terms, conditions, provisions, and obligations of this 
Agreement. Failure by the Consultant to perform as required by the terms, 
conditions, provisions, or obligations of this Agreement shall constitute a breach of 
contract. The Cheyenne MPO shall consider a Consultant’s failure to perform as a 
material breach of contract when it can be determined that the terms, conditions, 
provisions, or obligations of the Agreement will not be completed and the Cheyenne 
MPO will incur additional cost, lost opportunity, or additional time to obtain the 
same or equal Agreement deliverables. A material breach may result in remedies 
as the Cheyenne MPO deems appropriate, which may include, but are not limited 
to: 
 
(i) Termination as provided in SECTION 20 – FEDERAL GENERAL 
PROVISIONS, SECTION V – TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT; 
(ii) Withholding monthly progress payments; 
(iii) Assessing damages/sanctions; 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 10 of 21 
(iv) Disqualifying the Consultant from future solicitations; and/or 
(v) Legal remedy. 
 
D. LIMITATIONS ON LOBBYING ACTIVITIES.  By signing this Agreement, 
the Consultant certifies and agrees that, in accordance with P.L. 101-121, payments 
made from federal appropriated funds shall not be utilized by the Consultant or its 
subconsultants in connection with lobbing member(s) of Congre ss, or any federal 
agency in connection with the award of a federal appropriated fund, Agreement, 
cooperative agreement or loan. 
 
E. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS .  The Consultant shall keep informed of and 
comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations in the 
performance of this Agreement. 
 
F. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.   
 
(i) The Consultant shall not engage in providing consultation or representation 
of clients, agencies, or firms which may constitute a conflict of interest 
which may result in a disadvantage to the Cheyenne MPO or a disclosure 
which may adversely affect the interests of the Cheyenne MPO . The 
Consultant shall notify the Cheyenne MPO  of any potential or actual 
conflicts of interest, including financial or other personal interests, arising 
during the course of the Consultant’s performance under this Agreement. 
This Agreement may be terminated in the event a conflict of interest arises. 
Termination of this Agreement will be subject to a mutual settlement of 
accounts. In the event this Agreement is terminated under this provision, the 
Consultant shall take steps to ensure that all files, evidence, evaluations, and 
data are provide to the Cheyenne MPO or its designee. This provision does 
not prohibit or affect the Consultant’s ability to engage in consultations, 
evaluations, or representation under agreement with other agencies, firms, 
facilities, or attorneys so long as no conflict exists. 
 
(ii) A conflict of interest may be considered a material breach of this 
Agreement.  In the event the Agreement is terminated under this provision, 
the Consultant shall take steps to insure that all files, evidence, evaluation, 
and data are provided to the Cheyenne MPO or its designee. 
 
(iii) A material breach under this section may result in remedies as provided in 
SECTION 20 – FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS , SECTION C – 
BREACH OF AGREEMENT. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 11 of 21 
G. DETERMINATION OF ALLOWABLE COSTS.  The Consultant shall assure, 
prior to submittal of periodic progress payments, that all costs are in accordance 
with federal cost principals as provided in 48 CFR 31. Failure by the Consultant to 
carry out these requirements may be a material breach of this Agreement, which 
may result in remedies as provided in SECTION 20 – FEDERAL GENERAL 
PROVISIONS, SECTION C – BREACH OF AGREEMENT. 
 
H. DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE ASSURANCE .  The 
Consultant or subconsultant shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color, 
national origin, or sex in the performance of this Agreement. The Consultant shall 
carry out applicable requirements of 49 CFR 26 in all subconsultant contract 
documents. Failure by the Consultant to carry out these requirements may be a 
material breach of this Agreement, which may result in remedies as provided in 
SECTION 20 – FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION C – BREACH 
OF AGREEMENT. 
 
I. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACTS.  The Consultant agrees all activities under 
this Agreement shall comply  with the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the 
National Environmental Policy Act, and other related provisions of federal 
environmental protection laws, rules or regulations. 
 
J. ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.  The Consultant shall be responsible for assuring 
that professional services provided under this Agreement are accurate and without 
mistakes or omissions. The Consultant shall endeavor to perform services in a 
manner consistent with that degree of care and skill ordinarily exercised by 
members of the same profession currently practicing under similar circumstances. 
The Cheyenne MPO shall notify the Consultant at the earliest possible time of the 
professional services which require corrective action and the Consultant, by mutual 
agreement with the Cheyenne MPO  and without additional compensation, shall 
correct those services.  Failure by the Consultant to carry out these requirements 
may be considered, in the sole discretion of the Cheyenne MPO, a material breach 
of this Agreement, which may result in remedies as provided in SECTION 20 – 
FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS , SECTION C – BREACH OF 
AGREEMENT. 
 
K. HUMAN TRAFFICKING.  As required by 22 U.S.C. § 7104(g), and 2 CFR Part 
175, this Agreement may be terminated without penalty if a private entity that 
receives funds under this Agreement: 
 
(i) Engages in severe forms of trafficking in persons during the period of time 
that the award is in effect; 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 12 of 21 
(ii) Procures a commercial sex act during the period of time that the award is 
in effect; or 
(iii) Uses force labor in the performance of the award or subawards under the 
award. 
 
L. KICKBACKS.  The Consultant certifies and warrants that no gratuities, kickbacks, 
or contingency fees were paid in connection with this Agreement, nor were any 
fees, commissions, gifts, or other considerations made contingent upon the award 
of this Agreement. If the Co nsultant breaches or violates this warranty, the 
Cheyenne MPO may, at its discretion, terminate this Agreement without liability to 
the Cheyenne MPO , or deduct  from the agreed upon price or consideration, or 
otherwise recover, the full amount of any commission, percentage, brokerage, or 
contingency fee. 
 
M. MANDATORY DISCLOSURES .  The Consultant shall disclose, in a timely 
manner, in writing, to the Cheyenne MPO all violations of federal criminal law 
involving fraud, bribery, or gratuity violations potentially affecting this award. 
Failure to make required disclosures can result in remedies for non -compliance 
including suspension or debarment. 
 
N. MONITORING ACTIVITIES .  The Cheyenne MPO  shall have the right to 
monitor all activities related to this Agreement that are performed by the Consultant 
or its subconsultants. This shall include, but not be limited to, the right to make site 
inspections at any time and with reasonable notice; to bring experts and consultants 
on site to examine or evaluate completed work or work in progress; to examine the 
books, ledgers, documents, papers, and records pertinent to this Agreement; and to 
observe personnel in every phase of performance of the Agreement-related work. 
 
O. NO FINDER’S FEES.  No finder’s fee, employment agency fee, or other such fee 
related to the procurement of this Agreement, shall be paid by either party. 
 
P. NONDISCRIMINATION.  The Consultant shall comply with the Civil Rights 
Act of 1964, the Wyoming Fair Employment Practices Act (Wyo. Stat. § 27-9-105, 
et seq.), the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), 42 U.S.C. § 12101, et seq., 
and the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 and any properly promulgated rules and 
regulations thereto and shall not discriminate against any individual on the grounds 
of age, sex, color, race, religion, national origin, or disability in connection with the 
performance under this Agreement. Federal law requires the Consultant to include 
all relevant provisions of this Agreement in every subconsultant awarded over ten 
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) so that such provisions are binding on each 
subconsultant. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 13 of 21 
Q. OWNERSHIP AND RETURN OF DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION .  
The Cheyenne MPO  is the official custodian and owns all documents, data 
compilations, reports, computer programs, photographs, data, and other work 
provided to or produced by the Consultant in the performance of this Agreement. 
Upon termination of services, for any reason , the Consultant agrees to return all 
such original and derivative information and documents to the Cheyenne MPO in a 
useable format. In the case of electronic transmission, such transmission shall be 
secured. The return of information by any other means shall be by a parcel service 
that utilizes tracking numbers. 
 
R. PATENT OR COPYRIGHT PROTECTION, AND RIGHTS IN DATA .  The 
Consultant recognizes that certain proprietary matters or techniques may be subject 
to patent, trademark, copyright, license, or other similar restrictions, and warrants 
that no work performed by the Consultant or its subconsultants shall violate any 
such restriction. The Consultant shall defend and indemnify the Cheyenne MPO for 
any infringement or alleged infringement of such patent, trademark, copyright, 
license, or other restrictions. 
 
Copyrighting or other exclusions placed on any documents or materials developed 
by the Consultant, its sublets, agents or assigns under this Agreement are 
prohibited. 
 
Data produced, furnished, acquired, or used in meeting the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement shall be available to the Cheyenne MPO , WYDOT and/or the 
federal funding agency with unlimited rights. Data means all recorded information, 
regardless of form, to include both technical – scientific or technical nature - and 
computer software information. It does not include information relate d to 
administration of the Agreement such as financial, cost or pricing, or management 
information. Unlimited rights mea ns that the Cheyenne MPO , State or federal 
agency has the right to use, disclose, reproduce, and distribute the data in any 
manner and for any purpose, and to permit others to also have unlimited rights. 
Meanings and uses described in SECTION P – NONDISCRIMINATION are 
superseded and/or supplemented by 48 CFR 52.227-14. 
 
S. PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION.  The Consultant shall endorse, if required 
by law, plans and reports prepared under this Agreement, and shall affix thereto his 
or her seal of professional registration, showing that he or she is licensed to practice 
in the State of Wyoming. 
 
T. PUBLICITY.  Any publicity given to the projects, program or services provided 
herein, including, but not limited to, notices, information, pamphlets, press releases, 
research, reports, signs, and similar public notices in whatever form, prepared by 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 14 of 21 
or for the Consultant and related to the services and work to be performed under 
this Agreement, shall identify the Cheyenne MPO , WYDOT, and the federal 
funding agency as the sponsoring agencies and shall not be released without prior 
written approval of the Cheyenne MPO. 
 
U. SUSPENSION AND DEBARMENT.  By signing this Agreement, the Consultant 
certifies that neither it nor its principals/agents are presently debarred, suspended, 
proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from 
participation in this transaction or from receiving federal financial or non-financial 
assistance, nor are any of the participants involved in the execution of this 
Agreement suspended, debarred, or voluntarily excluded by any federal department 
or agency in accordance with Executive Order 12549 (Debarment and Suspension), 
2 CFR Part 180, or are on the debarred, or otherwise ineligible,  vendors lists 
maintained by the federal government. Further, the Consultant agrees to notify the 
Cheyenne MPO by certified mail should it or any of its principals/agents become 
ineligible for payment, debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded from receiving 
federal funds during the term of this Agreement. Failure by the Consultant to carry 
out these requirements may be a material breach of this Agr eement, which may 
result in remedies as provided in SECTION 20 – FEDERAL GENERAL 
PROVISIONS, SECTION C – BREACH OF AGREEMENT. 
 
V. TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT.  The Cheyenne MPO may terminate all or 
part of the Agreement, without cause, upon thirty (30) days written notice. The 
Agreement may be terminated by the Cheyenne MPO immediately for cause if the 
Cheyenne MPO determines that the Consultant has failed to perform as required by 
the terms, conditions, provisions, or obligations of the Agreement – Termination 
for Cause or Breach – or the Cheyenne MPO determines that termination is in the 
public’s best interest – Termination on Public’s  Behalf/Convenience. In either 
event, compensation shall be made to the Consultant based upon the progress of the 
work performed prior to termination. 
 
Work performed shall be defined as the deliverables specified in the Agreement 
and accepted by the Cheyenne MPO, and not the labor hours billed. The ownership 
of the work completed or partially completed at the time of such termination or 
abandonment shall be retained by the Cheyenne MPO. 
 
The Cheyenne MPO  shall notify the Consultant, in writing, of Agreement 
termination. 
 
W. TITLE VI ASSURANCES FOR NON -DISCRIMINATION.  The Consultant 
agrees to comply with the requirements of the nondiscrimination clauses as 
described in the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Order 1050.2. 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 15 of 21 
 
X. ADMINISTRATION OF FEDERAL FUNDS.  The Consultant agrees its use of 
the funds awarded herein is subject to the Uniform Administrative Requirements 
of 2 CFR Part 200,  et seq.; any additional requirements set forth by the federal 
funding agency; all applicable regulations published in the Code of Federal 
Regulations; and other program guidance as provided to it by the Cheyenne MPO. 
 
Y. COPYRIGHT LICENSE AND PATENT RIGHTS .  The Consultant 
acknowledges that the federal grantor, the State of Wyoming, WYDOT, and the 
Cheyenne MPO reserve a royalty -free, nonexclusive, unlimited, and irrevocable 
license to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use, and to authorize others to use, for 
federal and state government purposes: (1) the copyright in any work developed 
under the Agreement; and ( 2) any rights of copyright to which the Consultant 
purchases ownership using funds awarded under this Agreement. Th e Consultant 
must consult with the Cheyenne MPO regarding any patent rights that arise from, 
or are purchases with, funds awarded under this Agreement. 
 
Z. FEDERAL AUDIT REQUIREMENTS.  The Consultant agrees that if it expends 
an aggregate amount in excess of the amount set forth in 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart 
F in federal awards during its fiscal year, it must undergo an organization -wide 
financial and compliance single audit. The Consultant  aggress to comply with the 
audit requirements of the U.S. General Accounting Office Government Auditing 
Standards and Audit Requirements of 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F. If findings are 
made which cover any part of this Agreement, the Consultant shall provide one (1) 
copy of the audit report to WYDOT and to the Cheyenne MPO and require the 
release of the audit report by its auditor be held until adjusting entries are disclosed 
and made to the Cheyenne MPO’s records. 
 
AA. NON-SUPPLANTING CERTIFICATION.  The Consultant herby affirms that 
federal appropriated funds shall be used to supplement exiting funds, and shall not 
replace (supplant) funds that have been appropriated for the same purpose. The 
Consultant should be able to document that any reduction in non-federal resources 
occurred for reasons other than the receipt or expected receipt of federal funds 
under this Agreement. 
 
BB. PROGRAM INCOME .  The Consultant shall not deposit federal appropriated 
funds in an interest bearing account without prior approved of WYDOT. Any 
income attributable to the appropriated funds distributed under this Agreement 
must be used to increase the scope of the program  or returned to the Cheyenne 
MPO. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 16 of 21 
CC. APPLICABILITY OF APPENDIX II TO 2 CFR PART 200 .  This Agreement 
has been funded, in whole or in part, with Award of Federal funds and is bound by 
the federal contract provisions required by the Uniform Guidance Appendix II of 2 
CFR Part 200 (the Federal Contract Provisions), incorporated herein by this 
reference. In the event of a conflict between the Federal General Previsions section 
of this Agreement, or any attachments or exhibits incorporated herein, and the 
Federal Contract Provisions, the Federal Contract Provisions shall control. Failure 
to comply with the Federal Contract Provisions shall constitute an event of default 
under this Agreement. If such a default remains uncured five (5) calendar days 
following the termination of a thirty (30) -day prior written notice period, the 
Cheyenne MPO may terminate this Agreement. This remedy will be in addition to 
any other remedy available to the State of Wyoming, WYDOT, and the Cheyenne 
MPO under this Agreement, at law, or in equity. 
 
(In addition to the Federal General Provisions listed above, additional provisions 
available from WYDOT shall be used in all consultant contracts which utilize 
Federal Transit Administration funding.) 
 
DD. CONSULTANT PAYMENTS AND RETAINAGE. Periodic progress payments 
will be made for work satisfactorily completed based on invoice submittals to the 
Cheyenne MPO. 
 
All agreements shall include provisions that require the consultant to make prompt 
payment to subconsultants within thirty (30) calendar days from receipt of payment 
from the Cheyenne MPO (49 CFR 26.29). These provisions will advise the 
consultant to be prepared, if requested, to provide documentation that payment has 
been made for work satisfactorily completed by a subconsultant. These provisions 
will also notify the consultant that failure to make prompt payment may be 
addressed by the Cheyenne MPO as presented in the written procedures in 
SECTION 21 – BREACH OF AGREEMENT. 
 
The Cheyenne MPO may withhold retainage from payments, including final 
payment, if specified in the agreement. 
 
EE. AGREEMENT ADMINISTRATION .  The agreement for consultant services 
will identify the representative for the Cheyenne MPO as the primary contact 
through which the consultant will coordinate all phases of agreement work, terms 
and conditions. The Cheyenne MPO representative will: 
 
(i) Monitor the consultant’s work and acceptability of work, in compliance 
with the agreement. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 17 of 21 
(ii) Monitor the consultant’s work progress – work performed versus agreement 
completion date – in compliance with the agreement. 
 
(iii) Ensure the consultant’s labor hours and fees are in accordance with the 
agreement and the percent of the contract total being invoiced is 
commensurate with the progress of the work. 
 
(iv) Address consultant correspondence and resolve administrative issues. 
 
(v) Monitor the consultant and subconsultant(s) for compliance, if required by 
the Agreement. 
 
(vi) Administer breach of agreement, when required, consistent with procedures 
presented in below SECTION 21 – BREACH OF AGREEMENT. Consult 
with the WYDOT grant administrator before initiating procedures leading 
to breach of agreement. 
 
(vii) Close-out agreement when all work deliverables have been accepted and all 
consultant billings have been accepted. 
 
The Cheyenne MPO will maintain a correspondence file for each consultant 
services agreement, documenting all aspects of the selection, negotiation, and 
administration processes. The Cheyenne MPO will retain such records for at least 
three (3) years following agreement completion or termination. 
 
21. BREACH OF AGREEMENT 
 
A. Administrative Written Procedures .  Consultant agreements will incorporate 
Federal General Provisions regarding breach of agreement consistent with 23 CFR 
172 and 2 CFR 200. These Regulations require written procedures to address 
contractual, legal, and administrative remedies including sanc tions and penalties 
where consultants breach agreement terms, conditions, provisions, or obligations. 
For purposes of these written procedures, the Agreement terms, conditions, 
provisions, or obligations will be referred to as Agreement Services. 
 
Numerous Federal General Provisions will be administered using these written 
procedures. For purposes  of administering consultant agreements, breach of 
agreement may result when analyzing a consultant’s professional services under 
any of the following Federal General Provisions: 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 18 of 21 
SECTION 20 – FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
SECTION C.  BREACH OF AGREEMENT 
SECTION F.  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST  
SECTION G.  DETERMINATION OF ALLOWABLE COSTS 
SECTION H.  DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE ASSURANCE 
SECTION J.  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS 
SECTION K.  HUMAN TRAFFICKING 
SECTION U.  SUSPENSION AND DEBARMENT 
 
The consultant’s responsibility to make prompt payment to subconsultants will be 
administered through these written procedures, as required by SECTION DD – 
CONSULTANT PAYMENTS AND RETAINAGE and the consultant agreement. 
 
B. Contractual Remedy.  Contractual remedy is provided when the above provisions 
are physically incorporated, or incorporated by reference, into an executed 
Agreement. Additionally, contractual remedy requires the physical incorporation 
of SECTION 2 0 – FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION V – 
TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT. 
 
C. Legal Remedy .  Legal remedy is provided by the physical incorporation of 
SECTION 2 0, FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION E – 
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS and enforcement of the Agreement as governed by 
the laws of the State of Wyoming. 
 
D. Administrative Procedures, Sanctions, and Penalties.  Cheyenne MPO concerns 
with consultant performance and/or adherence to Agreement Services will most 
often be resolved through the coordination and resolution efforts as outline in 
SECTION EE – AGREEMENT ADMINISTRATION  of this document.  The 
authorized representative/ primary contact of the Cheyenne MPO should document 
all administrative issues and subsequent resolutions, from start to completion of the 
Agreement. 
 
There may be an occurrence when a cooperative and acceptable resolution cannot 
be reached between the Cheyenne MPO and the Consultant. At those occurrences, 
the Cheyenne MPO will typically make the determination that the Consultant has 
failed to perform Agreement-required acceptable work, has failed to progress in the 
performance of Agreement Services, or has not and will not comply with General 
Provisions. When that determination concludes that the Agreement Services cannot 
be completed and the Cheyenne MPO will incur additional cost, lost opportunity, 
or additional time to obtain the same or equal Agreement deliverables, the threshold 
for a material breach of agreement has been reached and will invoke SECTION 20, 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 19 of 21 
FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION 21 – BREACH OF 
AGREEMENT and the resultant remedies, including SECTION 20, FEDERAL 
GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION V – TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT. 
 
Any Cheyenne MPO  determination that the Consultant has failed to perform 
Agreement-required acceptable work, has failed to progress in the performance of 
Agreement Services, or has not and will not comply with General Provisions will 
need to be supported by the Cheyenne MPO documentation of monitoring activities 
as allowed by SECTION 20, FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION N 
– MONITORING ACTIVITIES. Issues concerning the Consultant’s billing of 
allowable costs should be evaluated in accordance with SECTION 20, FEDERAL 
GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION B – ACCESS TO RECORDS. 
 
The threshold for a material breach of agreement requires that the Consultant has 
failed to perform Agreement Services and that the Cheyenne MPO has or will incur 
additional cost, lost opportunity, or additional time to obtain the same or equal 
Agreement deliverables. Both represent a high threshold to assure an acceptable 
outcome and, as a result, the Cheyenne MPO representative through monitoring 
activities must identify and document unresolved issues early in the Agreement, 
before either the Consultant or the Cheyenne MPO has incurred substantial cost or 
time. All unresolved issues should be promptly addressed, either reaching 
resolution, arriving at reasonable penalties/sanctions, or concluding breach of 
agreement with the resultant remedies, including SECTION 2 0, FEDERAL 
GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION V – TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT. 
 
Penalties and/or sanctions typically available to the Cheyenne MPO  would be 
structured as 1) compensatory damages, 2) specific performance, or 3) termination. 
 
Damages, based on additional cost or time incurred by the Cheyenne MPO, could 
be quantified and pursued. Damages, based on lost opportunity incurred by the 
Cheyenne MPO, may be more difficult to quantify. Lost opportunity could include 
Cheyenne MPO delays in the delivery of supplemental work or successor 
agreements for work , or delay in the year of project construction and the related 
increased construction costs. Other lost opportunities may be identified and 
quantified. 
 
Specific performance would require the Consultant to pursue Agreement Services, 
with adjustment to allowable costs. Specific performance would be used as a 
remedy, either prior to or for breach of agreement, if the work required by the 
Agreement required special expertise, is an emergency, or is only available from a 
single or restricted number of firms. In those cases, damages would not suffice to 
place the Cheyenne MPO in as good a position as it would have been had the breach 
not occurred. 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 20 of 21 
 
Termination of the Agreement is presented in SECTION 2 0, FEDERAL 
GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION V – TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT. 
The Cheyenne MPO may terminate the Agreement, and either pursue restitution or 
not pursue restitution. Restitution, as a remedy, means that the Cheyenne MPO is 
put back in the position it was in prior to the breach; without restitution, the 
Agreement is terminated with both the Consultant and the Cheyenne MPO  no 
longer under any Agreement obligation. 
 
22. DEFAULT. Each and every term and condition in this Agreement shall be deemed to be a 
material element of the Agreement. In the event either party should fail or refuse to perform 
according to the terms of this Agreement, such party may be declared in default. 
 
23. ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.  In the event the Consultant fails to strictly perform in 
accordance with this Agreement, the MPO may elect to correct the deficiencies and charge 
the Consultant. In the event of default of any of the conditions by either party which shall 
require the party not in default to commence legal or equitable action against the defaulting 
party each party shall bear its own costs and expenses, including without limitation, 
attorney’s fees.  
 
24. ENTIRETY OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement consisting of twenty-one (21) pages, 
Exhibit A consisting of eight (8) pages, Exhibit B consisting of one (1) page, and Exhibit C 
consisting of one (1) page respectively, for a total of thirty-one (31) pages; and the Federal 
Contract Provisions, represent the entire and integrated Agreement between the parties and 
shall supersede all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, whether written or 
oral. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the language of this Agreement 
and the language of any attachment or document incorporated by reference, the language 
of this Agreement shall control  this matter. Time is of the essence hereof.  Any timing 
extension shall be approved in writing by both parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[SIGNATURES ON FOLLOWING PAGE] 
  
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Comprehensive Safety Action Plan 
Page 21 of 21 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties to this Agreement, through their duly authorized 
representatives, have executed this Agreement on the days and dates set out below and certify that 
they have read, understood, and knowingly and voluntarily agreed to the term s and conditions of 
this Agreement. This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be 
deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
 
 
      Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization  
 
      By: ______________________________________ 
       Patrick J. Collins, Chairman 
       MPO Policy Committee 
 
      Date: _____________________________________ 
 
 
 
      City of Cheyenne 
              
      By: ______________________________________ 
(SEAL)                      Patrick Collins, Mayor 
 
Attest:____________________________ Date: _____________________________________ 
 Kylie Soden, City Clerk 
 
 
Consultant 
 
By: ______________________________________ 
 
 
Print Name: _______________________________ 
 
 
                                                                        Date: _____________________________________ 
 
Lyle E. DeVries
5/6/2025
Scope of Work 
Task 1: Project Structure and Work Plan 
FHU will prepare a work plan delineating tasks, responsibilities, deliverables, and schedule to support 
timely completion and adoption.  
Task 2: Project Management and Coordination 
Collaborating with the MPO staff, FHU will formulate and implement a project management plan (PMP) 
outlining expectations for project communications, deliverables, schedule and budget management, and 
invoicing. FHU will coordinate with the MPO to understand and manage potential project risks. The 
PMP will serve as a resource to guide every element of the CSAP to successful completion.  
Th
e FHU team will create a methods and assumptions document that will establish the traffic and safety 
analysis methods and tools to be used, confirm the study area, identify software tools (as needed) and 
deliverable formats, and document any other baseline assumptions and parameters to be carried 
through the CSAP. 
F
HU will manage all study tasks, bear responsibility for all documentation/ equipment needs for the 
project. FHU’s project manager will serve as the direct point of contact for the Cheyenne MPO’s 
project manager. FHU will coordinate brief monthly project management meetings to facilitate 
communication and will maintain availability to the MPO for informal contact throughout the CSAP 
process. FHU will provide invoices and progress reports each month, documenting expenses and listing 
work progress, upcoming tasks, scope and schedule status and any rising concerns or issues. 
T
he FHU team will work with the MPO to identify and convene a CSAP steering committee 
membership comprised of representatives of the MPO, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County and the 
Wyoming Department of Transportation (WYDOT). Steering Committee meetings would occur 
approximately every 1.5-2 months throughout the duration of the project, totaling 10 meetings plus the 
Steering Committee kickoff meeting. The Cheyenne MPO will coordinate steering committee activities 
supported by FHU. 
T
ask 2 Deliverables 
• Project Management Plan, including timeline and key milestones
• Steering Committee meetings and corresponding agendas and summaries
• Monthly invoices and progress reports
Task 3: Stakeholder and Public Engagement Program 
3.1 Engagement Program Plan 
The FHU team will develop a Stakeholder and Public Engagement Program Plan (SPEP) to serve as a 
roadmap to guide all engagement activities throughout the CSAP process.  
T
he SPEP will include the engagement schedule, a list of activities and descriptions, identification of 
stakeholders and partners, and strategy for engaging all users.  
P
ublic input will be sought and welcomed throughout the CSAP with two activity phases. Phase 1 will be 
Exhibit A
a larger effort at the beginning of the project to understand safety perception and issues and Phase 2 will 
focus on sharing findings and coordinating alternatives. Each phase of engagement will be supported by a 
workplan. 
3.
2 Stakeholder Identification and Outreach 
The FHU team will work with the MPO to identify key stakeholders, including, but not limited to, 
transportation agencies, law enforcement, emergency services, hospitals, school districts, public health, 
community organizations, advocacy groups, and relevant private sector partners. The FHU team will 
develop a stakeholder engagement matrix to map relationships, interests, and roles and to guide 
targeted outreach efforts to ensure active participation from relevant parties. Key engagement methods 
may include development of a Stakeholder Advisory Group that meets throughout the planning process 
to review material and provide feedback, small group interviews to understand specific needs and 
priorities, distribution of project updates through newsletters, email campaigns, social media, and 
relevant media collateral. 
3.
3 Executive Level Coordination 
The FHU team will provide materials to support up to two activities designed to reach executive 
decision-makers and support eventual plan adoption. It is assumed that MPO staff will make 
presentations to executive leadership. 
3.
4 Community Engagement 
For each stage of the CSAP, the FHU team will collaborate with the Cheyenne MPO and project 
stakeholders to tailor engagement activities that provide actionable input to inform the development of 
the Safety Action Plan. Our approach combines innovative digital tools, traditional outreach methods, 
and in-community events to ensure broad participation and inclusivity. We propose the following 
community engagement activities: 
• In-person Community Meetings
• Pop-up Booths set up at high-traffic locations or existing events to maximize visibility and
accessibility.
• Virtual Public Meetings
• Online Engagement Activities
• Promotional Content and Materials:
• C
ollaboration with Community-Based Organizations
T
ask 3 Deliverables 
• Stakeholder and Public Engagement Program Plan
• Stakeholder facilitation and materials for up to 3 virtual meetings
• Small group virtual stakeholder interviews with up to 3 key agencies or departments
• Digital engagement tools for each phase of engagement
• In-person engagement preparation and staffing
o Up to 2 public open houses
o Up to 4 pop-up events
o Up to 2 virtual public meetings
• Promotional content and materials
o Website content and updates
o Social media and newsletter content
o One mailer to a subset of MPO area residents sent out to alert citizens to the process
and events
• Stakeholder and Public Engagement Summary materials
Task 4: Data Collection and Review 
The FHU team will collect and analyze crash information alongside related data, including roadway, 
driver, environmental, and geographic details. Our approach will leverage expertise in the Model 
Minimum Uniform Crash Criteria (MMUCC) and the Model Inventory of Roadway Data Elements 
(MIRE) to develop comprehensive crash databases that integrate crash information, facility data, and 
traffic volume data. FHU will assess the quality and completeness of the collected data and supplement it 
as necessary with additional sources. Anticipated data sources include: 
• MPO crash data and annual reports
• City & County crash data
• WYDOT crash data
• Transportation network data (traffic volumes, pavement condition, non-motorized user counts,
mu
ltimodal facilities)
• Speed data (Site-specific speed studies at up to
• R
egional land uses
• Census data
• Existing safety efforts, including those in adjacent jurisdictions
4.
1 Peer Review Analysis 
The FHU team will conduct a comprehensive peer review of crash analyses from similar-sized MPOs. 
This review will benchmark safety performance and exposure to risk, drawing comparisons on key 
metrics such as: 
• KSI Crashes per Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT): Evaluate crash frequency relative to travel
demand and roadway usage.
• Crashes per Capita: Assess safety outcomes in terms of population impact.
• Crash Risk and Exposure to Risk: Compare contributing factors such as roadway design, traffic
volumes, and modal split.
O
ur approach will include the following steps: 
1. Selection of Peer MPOs: Identify comparable MPOs based on population, geographic size, and
transportation network characteristics.
2. Data Collection: Gather crash data, exposure metrics, and safety performance indicators from
peer MPOs through publicly available reports, direct communication, or data- sharing
agreements.
3. Comparative Analysis: Analyze and interpret findings to identify trends, strengths, and
opportunities for improvement in the Cheyenne MPO area.
4. Contextual Recommendations: Use insights from peer comparisons to inform the prioritization
of safety strategies tailored to the Cheyenne MPO’s specific context.
4.
2 Safety Data Analysis Plan 
Building upon the basic approach (study area, etc.) outlined in the Methods and Assumptions document, 
the FHU team will develop a Safety Data Analysis Plan rooted in best practices from literature, policies, 
and data reviews taking into account the available data. This plan will serve as guide to the safety analysis 
in Task 5. 
T
ask 4 Deliverables 
• Crash and related data geodatabase
• Peer Review Analysis Memo
• Safety Data Analysis Plan
Task 5: Safety Analysis 
The FHU team will provide a data-driven analysis of existing safety conditions and historical trends. This 
analysis will establish a baseline for crashes involving fatalities and serious injuries, guiding the 
development of targeted safety improvements and strategies that align with the MPO’s goals and the 
SS4A program requirements. Task 5 will follow a multipronged approach that will consider both crash 
data analysis and a crucial proactive systemic safety approach.  
5.
1 Baseline Crash Analysis 
Key steps involved in the crash data analysis will include: 
1. Crash Locations and Severity: FHU will develop crash heatmaps using GIS software to highlight
h
igh-risk locations and corridors.
2. Stratification: Stratify data to create homogeneous datasets, i.e., crashes with similar
environmental, modal, geographic, and roadway conditions.
3. Descriptive Analysis: Develop descriptive statistics of crashes, including frequency, severity, rate,
and type. Vulnerable user crashes will also be identified separately.
4. Quantitative Analysis and Screening: Perform quantitative assessment using predictive tools such
as Safety Performance Functions (SPF).
5. Crash Patterns: Develop a High Injury Network to identify roadways with a disproportionately
high rate of serious injuries and fatalities that should be prioritized for targeted safety
improvements. Through network screening and identifying intersections and segments of
concern, the FHU team will assess each site to identify the causes for safety issues.
5.
2 Systemic and Specific Safety Needs Assessment 
The FHU team will use predictive crash modeling and systemic analysis techniques to identify high-risk 
contextual features such as AADT, medians, uncontrolled intersections, speeding corridors, and 
inadequate pedestrian infrastructure. Additionally, FHU will assess specific safety needs by conducting a 
vulnerability analysis for road users, focusing on areas with poor lighting, narrow lanes, or limited 
multimodal facilities. Public health approaches will also be incorporated to evaluate how the built 
environment impacts safety outcomes. 
T
ask 5 Deliverables 
• Crash Analysis Memo
• High Injury Network (including High Injury Segments and Intersections)
• High Risk Network
Task 6: Community Review 
The FHU team will review conditions across the study area to maximize attention to the needs of all 
users of the system, including the elderly, disabled, children, individuals with/without access to 
automobiles, non-motorized users and vulnerable users.  
T
his will be accomplished through: 
• Community indices: We will create a community picture using demographic and socioeconomic
indicators, such as income, race and ethnicity, disability status, age, vehicle ownership, and
access to multimodal transportation. We will map data from sources like the U.S. Census
Bureau and regional studies to highlight underserved areas.
• Review of Existing Studies: We will leverage previous analyses and community input from
re
lated Cheyenne MPO projects to ensure our findings build on existing knowledge.
• Geospatial Analysis: We map areas of to identify populations most at risk due to transportation
barriers or safety concerns. These insights will guide outreach and project prioritization.
T
ask 6 Deliverables 
• Transportation Community Tech Memo
o Community Indices and Geospatial Data and Maps
o Community Framework Summary
Task 7: Dashboard and Toolkit 
7.1 Interactive Dashboard for Evaluation and Transparency 
FHU will ensure evaluation and transparency in the project by creating a public-facing dashboard 
accessible through a website, ideally dedicated to the CSAP. We will collaborate with the Steering 
Committee through peer review to develop the dashboard content such as key performance indicators 
(KPIs), metrics, and other data sources. 
S
teps in Dashboard Development 
1. Develop a tracking mechanism using the technology preferred by the MPO.
2. Collect and store relevant data.
3. Create an interactive and visually appealing dashboard.
4. Incorporate user-friendly features.
5. Share and collaborate.
6. Provide data security and permissions.
7. Provide training and support.
O
nce completed, the dashboard will allow interactive visualizations and detailed assessments of 
embedded data at the local or sub-regional levels. The dashboard will provide flexible functionality, 
enabling staff to update crash-based findings regularly as new annual data become available.  
7.
2 Countermeasures Toolkit 
After safety issues and potential causal factors are identified, the FHU team will propose 
countermeasures while maintaining a focus on the Safe Systems Approach, which recognizes both the 
human element and the complexity of the transportation system. This approach introduces multiple 
layers of countermeasures and selects countermeasures based on research, engineering judgment, and 
experience. Available sources for countermeasure selection includes Countermeasures that Work 
(NHTSA), NCHRP 17-25, NCHRP 617, and the NCHRP 500 series. FHWA’s CMF Clearinghouse is 
another source that provides Crash Modification Factors (CMFs) associated with countermeasures from 
numerous sources. The FHU team will use these CMFs to estimate the effectiveness of a safety 
improvement strategy (i.e., countermeasure) in reducing crash frequencies and/or crash severity. 
For each identified Focus Area, the FHU team will develop a toolkit for proactively and systematically 
addressing safety for that Focus Area. Elements of the Focus Area toolbox could include goals, 
evaluation metrics, lead agency, partners, cost estimates, or concept photos. 
7.
3 Safe Streets Visualizations and Toolkit 
The FHU team will prepare visualizations of proven safety countermeasures, context-sensitive design 
solutions, and multimodal roadway and community typologies for countermeasures identified to address 
Focus Areas determined through analysis and the outreach process. FHU will identify best practices for 
collecting and sharing graphics and data with key stakeholders and the public. Potential examples include 
an ArcGIS Story Map or an annual Safe Streets Report. 
The FHU team will provide a Safe Systems Toolkit for ongoing use by the MPO and participating 
agencies. In addition to strategies and associated countermeasures discussed above, the toolkit 
will include sample outreach materials (infographics, fact sheets, presentation slides, talking points, and a 
glossary of key terms) and an outline for an ideal public education process. 
T
ask 7 Deliverables 
• Interactive dashboard hosted on the MPO’s website
• Interactive dashboard maintenance plan and instructions
• Countermeasures toolkit
• Safe Systems toolkit
Task 8: Implementation Matrix 
The FHU team will develop a comprehensive implementation matrix to guide the Cheyenne MPO in 
advancing safety goals and meeting the objectives of the SS4A program. This matrix will serve as a 
roadmap for prioritizing potential projects, strategies, and recommendations, including those suitable for 
future grant opportunities, measures to be incorporated into routine maintenance cycles, and updates 
to align with safety best practices. 
8.
1 Project Identification 
The implementation matrix will identify potential projects based on identified safety countermeasures, 
focusing on: 
• High-Injury Corridors and Intersections: Targeted improvements based on crash patterns.
• High-Risk Corridors and Intersections: Proactive measures in locations without a crash history
but exhibiting high-risk characteristics.
• Multimodal and All User Considerations: Strategies that address the safety needs of all users,
i
ncluding pedestrians, cyclists, motorists, and transit riders, while prioritizing underserved
communities.
• Policy Recommendations: Strategies focusing on the Four E’s of Traffic Safety—Engineering,
Enforcement, Education, and Encouragement—to ensure a holistic approach to safety
improvements.
8.
2 Project Prioritization 
The FHU team will collaborate with the Steering Committee to develop a methodology for prioritizing 
projects. Metrics for scoring will be informed by stakeholder input, engagement outcomes, benefit/cost 
analysis, and community considerations. We will categorize planning-level cost estimates for 
countermeasures into high, medium, and low ranges to facilitate prioritization. 
8
.3 Implementation Matrix 
The FHU team will collaborate with the MPO to prioritize recommendations for action. Criteria for 
implementation may include urgency/severity of need, cost-effectiveness, and geographic/demographic 
spread.  
T
he FHU team will outline a project readiness timeline, planning level costs, and implementation strategy 
for each identified project and policy, categorized into: 
• P
roject readiness timeline (short, mid, and long term)
• Planning level costs (low, medium, and high)
• Estimated fiscal and staff resources
• Outline of a step-by-step process to carry project ideas through a logical sequence to
co
mpletion, addressing local and state policy/regulation components, established standards and
gu
idelines, clearances, physical design considerations, etc, ensuring successful execution of the
recommendation by entities who would participate in delivery.
• Grant-ready: Feasible and aligned with federal and state safety grant criteria, such as SS4A
im
plementation funds
• Integrated with maintenance cycles: Identifying safety measures that can be incorporated into
ro
utine maintenance schedules to ensure cost-effective implementation
Th
e FHU team will support the development of a publicly accessible tracking mechanism or document, 
such as the dashboard developed as part of Task 7, to monitor progress. This tool will enable the 
Cheyenne MPO and its partners to update crash-based findings, evaluate the effectiveness of 
implemented strategies, and adjust priorities as needed. 
T
ask 8 Deliverables 
• Implementation matrix including:
o Comprehensive Project List: Potential projects, estimated costs, and funding feasibility
o Roles and Responsibilities: Identification of lead agencies, supporting partners, and
resource allocation
o Step-by-step implementation strategy
o Implementation Schedule: Detailed timelines for short-, mid-, and long-term projects
o Resource Requirements: Recommendations for fiscal and staff resources needed for
s
ustained safety efforts
o Grant Alignment: Strategies tailored for grant applications to maximize funding
opportunities
Task 9: Administrative Draft and Final Plan 
FHU will prepare an Administrative Draft CSAP in electronic PDF format for review by the Cheyenne 
MPO Steering Committee, ensuring accessibility and ease of distribution. Before submission, the draft 
will undergo thorough internal reviews and technical editing to guarantee accuracy, completeness, and 
alignment with project goals. The FHU team will efficiently organize and address Steering Committee 
comments, maintaining clear documentation of feedback and responses to streamline the review 
process. All input will be incorporated into the next iteration of the plan, refining both content and 
presentation to meet the Steering Committee’s expectations. 
F
ollowing final Steering Committee review and consent, FHU will develop the Final CSAP, designed to 
be visually compelling, easily understood, and actionable for policymakers, stakeholders, and community 
members. The final report will communicate key strategies and recommendations and provide clear 
connections between recommendations and their implications. 
F
HU will prepare tailored presentation materials and professionally present the CSAP findings, 
strategies, and recommendations to the Cheyenne MPO’s advisory and policy committees, planning 
commissions, City Council, and County Commissioner Board. We will facilitate discussions to address 
questions, ensure stakeholder understanding and buy-in, and secure final approval of the CSAP through 
clear communication and strong engagement. 
T
ask 9 Deliverables 
• Draft and final CSAP (electronic files and two paper copies of the final plan)
• Presentations to MPO Committees, elected bodies (Council and commissions)
Task 10: Executive Summary/Fact Sheet 
Our team will design a concise Executive Summary to effectively communicate the key outcomes of the 
CSAP. This visually engaging summary will provide a clear, actionable framework of innovative strategies 
and actions designed to support MPO safety initiatives, reduce transportation-related fatalities and 
serious injuries, and align with federal and state regulations. It will highlight major assumptions, 
strategies, and recommendations in a highly graphic, easy-to-follow layout, aiming to inform stakeholders 
while generating enthusiasm for the implementation of projects and policies.  
T
ask 10 Deliverables 
• Executive Summary
Exhibit B
Gaurav Vasisht 
(PIC)
Lyle DeVries 
(PM)
Stephanie Ball 
(DPM) Ryan Saline Melanie 
Bishop
Yory 
Moncada
Rocio 
Ramirez
Elizabeth 
Bigham
Megan 
Ornelas
Sebastian 
Montenegro
Amanda 
Denning Peyton Saar Jordan Jones Tara 
Clapham Ge Shi Linda Stuchlik Meghan 
Adams Melissa Ruth Megan Moore
Principal I Principal II Planner V Engineer V Planner IV Engineer I Planner II Planner II GIS Mgr Planner III PI Mgr PI Specialist Engineer IV Engineer I Analyst II Sr. Admin GraphicsMgr Planner Assoc. Planner Sr.
Task 1 - Project Structure & Work Plan 0 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 0
1.1 Draft and Finalize Work Plan 1 4 5
Task 2 - Project Management & Coordination 10 32 68 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 110 0 0
2.1 Project Management Meetings and Tasks 8 8 24 40
2.2 Steering Committee Kickoff Meeting 4 4 8
2.3 Steering Committee Meetings 2 20 40 62
Task 3 - Stakeholder & Public Engagement 4 5 62 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 26 28 0 0 0 8 66 199 158 32
3.1 Stakeholder & Public Engagement Program Plan 2 1 2 12 8 25 2
3.2 Stakeholder Identification and Outreach 0
3.3 Executive Level Coordination 2 1 4 7
3.4 Community Engagement 0 3 56 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 14 28 0 0 0 0 66 167 156 32
b. Social Pinpoint 2 4 8 14
c. Pop-up Events & Integration with Community Events 1 12 4 6 16 39 80 24
d. Public Meetings 1 24 4 8 46 83 54
e. Committee Meetings 1 12 13 18 8
g. Stakeholder and Public Engagement Tech Memo 6 2 6 4 18 4
Task 4 - Data Collection & Review 4 7 22 4 8 16 0 36 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 97 0 0
4.1 Local, Regional, & State Review 4 7 18 4 8 16 0 36 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 93 0 0
a. National Best Practices Review 2 2 16 20
b. Peer RPA Review 1 8 9
c. Data Review 4 4 8 2 4 8 30
d. Qualitative Trend Analysis 2 4 8 14
e. Tech Memo on Policy & Best Practice Review 12 12
f. Tech Memo on Data Assessment 8 8
4.2 Safety Data Analysis Plan 4 4
Task 5 - Safety Analysis 12 5 0 19 44 52 0 0 16 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 163 0 0
5.1 Baseline Crash Analysis 10 5 0 18 36 46 0 0 8 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 138 0 0
a. Data Collection and Assimilation 1 1 4 8 8 22
b. Stratification 2 1 4 8 15
d. Quantitative Analysis & Screening 2 1 8 8 8 7 34
e. LOSS and High Injury Network 2 2 8 6 8 26
f. Tech Memo Data Analysis and Findings 1 2 8 8 19
g. Annual Crash Evaluation Tool 2 12 8 22
5.2 Systemic and Specific Safety Needs Assessment 2 1 8 6 8 25
Task 6 - Community Review 1 4 6 0 1 0 24 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 44 0 0
a. Community Mapping and Indicators 2 12 8 22
b. Community Review Memo 1 2 6 1 12 22
Task 7 - Dashboard and Toolkit 4 10 17 0 8 8 4 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 32 0 8 105 0 0
7.1 Dashboard 4 2 24 30
7.2 Countermeasure and Solution Toolkit 8 12 8 8 36
7.3 Safe Streets Visualization 4 2 1 4 12 8 8 39
Task 8 - Implementation Matrix 16 40 68 20 0 0 0 74 24 0 0 0 36 28 0 0 0 306 0 0
8.1 Project Identification 4 8 20 10 8 50
8.2 Project Prioritization 8 16 24 32 8 4 4 96
8.3 Implementation Matrix 8 20 36 32 8 32 24 160
Task 9 - Administrative Draft and Final Plan 4 12 14 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 12 64 0 0
a. Complete Administrative Draft Report 4 8 8 16 2 8 46
b. Finalize report 2 2 2 2 8
c. Report presentations and approvals 2 4 2 2 10
Task 10 - Executive Summary/Fact Sheet 1 4 12 4 0 8 0 12 0 0 1 4 2 0 4 12 12 76 0 0
a. Complete Executive Summary and Fact Sheet 1 4 12 4 8 12 1 4 2 4 12 12 76
Task 11 - Deliverables
TOTAL HOURS 56 120 273 63 61 84 28 122 62 15 27 32 38 28 36 26 98 1169 158 32
DIRECT HOURLY RATE $87.98 $95.19 $62.98 $56.01 $50.96 $37.02 $44.95 $38.70 $57.69 $43.03 $51.20 $28.00 $55.77 $36.54 $39.66 $46.00 $51.68 $46.40 $58.30 
WYDOT MULTIPLIER (OVERHEAD) 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.830 2.553 2.553 
PROFIT PERCENTAGE 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00%
BURDENED RATE $278.86 $301.72 $199.62 $177.53 $161.53 $117.34 $142.48 $122.67 $182.86 $136.38 $162.29 $88.75 $176.77 $115.81 $125.72 $145.80 $163.81 $132.67 $166.70
LABOR COSTS BY CLASSIFICATION $15,616 $36,207 $54,497 $11,184 $9,853 $9,856 $3,989 $14,966 $11,337 $2,046 $4,382 $2,840 $6,717 $3,243 $4,526 $3,791 $16,054 $20,963 $5,334 
FEE SUBTOTALS $211,105 
DIRECT PROJECT EXPENSES UNITS COST PER 
UNIT TOTAL
Color Prints 0 $0.19 $0 
Presentation Boards (per sq ft) 450 $1.51 $680 
Speed data collection (VENDOR service) 1 $5,000 $5,000 
Mailer 1 $5,000 $5,000 
Mileage (Mtgs & Site Visits) 2930 $0.66 $1,919 
TOTAL PRIME DIRECT EXPENSES $12,599 
TOTAL PROJECT COST
FHU SUBTOTAL
LOGAN SIMSPSON SUBTOTAL
PRIME DIRECT EXPENSES SUBTOTAL
$250,000 
$211,105 
$26,297 
$12,599 
FHU Cost Proposal: Team Fee 
Cheyenne MPO Safety Action Plan
Hours for these deliverables are included within Tasks 1 -11
FHU 
Subtotal
Exhibit C