Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins 
Page 1 of 2 
March 18, 2025 
 
X:\Rick\Striping Projects\2025\Thermo\WYDOT\MEMO_ Mayor_Council.docx 
 
 
 
 
 
MEMO 
 
TO:  Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins, City of Cheyenne 
  City Council Members 
 
FROM: Rick Amen, PE, City Traffic Engineer  
 
 
DATE:  March 13, 2025 
 
SUBJECT: Cooperative Agreement between Wyoming Department of 
Transportation and the City of Cheyenne 
 Federal Project No. B251A02 
 Various Locations, Thermoplastic Striping, Laramie County  
 
 
Please find attached the proposed Cooperative Agreement for Federal Project No. B251A02, 
Various Locations, Thermoplastic Striping in Laramie County provided by WYDOT to the City 
of Cheyenne for your approval and execution.  The agreement is summarized below for your 
information.   
 
Purpose of Project: 
In conjunction with intersections planned to be restriped with thermoplastic markings by 
WYDOT, the city determined it would be in its best interest to upgrade the markings on the 
city roadways associated with the shared WYDOY/City intersections for improved 
consistency and a best approach to providing improved safety to the public.  Markings 
along Lincolnway, College Drive and at the intersection of Logan & Nationway were 
identified to be in need of upgraded thermoplastic markings as part of this project. 
 
Purpose of Agreement: 
The primary purpose of the agreement is to set forth the terms and conditions by the City 
will reimburse WYDOT for costs associated with thermoplastic restriping of crosswalks 
and other street markings at various locations throughout the City.  The locations are 
shown on Exhibit A, which is attached and in the agreement.  This project is associated with 
WYDOT’s main project B251010. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
CITY ENGINEER’S OFFICE 
2101 O’Neil Avenue  
Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 
Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins 
Page 2 of 2 
March 18, 2025 
 
X:\Rick\Striping Projects\2025\Thermo\WYDOT\MEMO_ Mayor_Council.docx 
 
 
Responsibilities: 
City of Cheyenne. 
 Reimburse WYDOT in accordance with Section 4 of the agreement. 
 Submit a letter to WYDOT designating a qualified Project representative, at no cost 
to WYDOT, capable of making timely decisions and authorized to sign documents 
concerning the construction of the Project. 
 WYDOT will give the City the opportunity to review and comment on Project cost 
estimates prior to the advertisement of bids. 
 WYDOT shall ask the City to concur in the award of the Project to the lowest 
qualified bidder.  As a result of signing the Letter of Concurrence, the City agrees to 
amend estimated costs to match the actual bid amount. 
 Upon completion and acceptance of the Project, the City shall maintain, at its sole 
expense, all features constructed under the Agreement.  Maintenance shall include 
all repairs necessary to keep the improvement in its functional constructed 
condition. 
 Identify areas of potential effect to and perform environmental studies (in 
compliance with 23 CFR 771) outside of the existing WYDOT Project limits.  Provide 
this information to WYDOT prior to the due date to be provided by WYDOT. 
 Approve final plans and estimates prior to advertisement by WYDOT. 
 
WYDOT. 
 Conduct preliminary engineering investigations and develop final design plans and 
estimates. 
 Perform construction engineering for the Project in accordance with Project plans 
and specifications. 
 Advertise the Project and award a bid to the lowest qualified bidder in accordance 
with WYDOT policies. 
 Review environmental information provided by the City and include or re-evaluate 
the NEPA document as necessary. 
 
Estimated Cost: 
The Total City Portion of the project including construction administration and 
construction cost estimated by WYDOT in February 2025 is $234,845.00 from the Optional 
One Percent Sales Tax (2023 – 2026) 5th Penny. 
8:52 am, Mar 18, 2025








