CHEYENNE PARKS & 
RECREATION MASTER PLAN
February 2025

  IIIII 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
PLAN TEAM ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The Cheyenne Parks Division and Community 
Recreation & Events Department sincerely 
thank the individuals, organizations, and staff 
whose dedicated contributions, time, and effort 
were essential in producing this document. The 
successful collaborative effort was made possible 
through the commitment to this plan by those 
listed below.
MAYOR
Mayor Patrick Collins
CITY COUNCIL
Pete Laybourn, Ward I
Scott Roybal, Ward I
Jeff White, Ward I
Bryan M. Cook, Ward II
Dr. Mark Rinne, Ward II
Tom Segrave, Ward II
Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Ward III
Richard Johnson, Ward III
Ken Esquibel, Ward III
STEERING COMMITTEE
CITY COUNCIL
Pete Laybourn, Ward I
Bryan M. Cook, Ward II
Dr. Mark Rinne, Ward II
Tom Segrave, Ward II
Ken Esquibel, Ward III
Jennifer McClelland, Executive Assistant to City 
Council
CITY STAFF
Jason Sanchez, Director, Community Recreation & 
Events, Project Oversight
Charles Bloom, AICP, Planning and Development 
Director
Jeanie Anderson-Shrednik, Greenway and Parks 
Planner, Planning and Development, Project Lead
Sam Payne, Deputy Director, Community 
Recreation & Events
Seth Lloyd, Planning and Development
Erin Fagan, Planning and Development
Brittany Hooper, Program and Facilities Manager, 
Community Recreation & Events
Andrew Coe, Recreation Manager, Community 
Recreation & Events
Brandon Peterson, Park Manager, Community 
Recreation & Events
Steven Trowbridge, Weed and Pest Manager
CITY PARTNERS
Betsey Hale, Cheyenne LEADS
Bryce Hamilton, Laramie County Planning and 
Development
Jim Walter, Visit Cheyenne
CONSULTANT TEAM
DESIGN WORKSHOP
Anna Laybourn, Principal-in-Charge
Ashley Hejtmanek, Project Manager
Jennifer Pintar, Planner, GIS Analyst
Ketaki Ghodke, Planner
Alexandra Pollock, GIS Support
BALLARD*KING
Scott Caron, Operations and Maintenance, Fiscal 
Planning
LETTER FROM THE DIRECTOR
The City of Cheyenne’s first city park, “Old City Park,” was established in 
1882 through the generous donation of a local businessman and cared for by 
volunteers. Our community members continue to show what it means to ‘do our 
part’ in contributing to parks, trails, open space, and recreation programs, as 
demonstrated by the input they provided to crafting this plan. Their feedback 
shows a great affinity and pride for what Cheyenne has to offer, but also how we 
can do better for more people and plan for the future. 
In my 29 years as part of the City of Cheyenne’s Community Recreation & 
Events Department, I have been continuously amazed by the resourcefulness, 
adaptability, and commitment of our city staff. We find great purpose in caring 
for essential community spaces and providing services that improve public 
and environmental health, foster social connections, and are the backdrop to 
people’s lives. We work to evolve the park system, such as the expansion of the 
Greater Cheyenne Greenway that weaves along our waterways and through our 
prairie landscape. Our recreation services continue to adapt and change to meet 
community needs. This planning process has helped us to prioritize and envision 
the steps we need to take over the next 10 years to leave a legacy for future 
generations.
However, we must acknowledge the critical challenge posed by a desire to 
maintain what we have while operating on a static budget. Our financial 
resources are well below peer communities, and this shortfall significantly 
hinders progress. This study confirmed that a community of our size and, with 
our climate, has a great need for a big investment in additional indoor recreation 
and program space. Our goal is to secure funding from diverse sources, some 
of which will require community and political support. This plan document 
provides flexibility to implement what we can afford over time but with an 
aspirational vision for improvements throughout Cheyenne.
I am excited for you to read more about the ideas in this plan to support a 
community that is active year-round, meets more needs, celebrates community 
culture and place, environmental stewardship, and aligns and expands funding. 
We look forward to working together to bring this vision to life.
Sincerely, 
Jason Sanchez 
Director of Community Recreation & Events 
City of Cheyenne
Jason Sanchez
  VIV 
LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1: Percent Parkland Acres  ..................................... 5
Figure 2: Park and Open Space per 1000 Residents ..................... 6
Figure 3: Park Inventory Map  ........................................ 7
Figure 4: Plan Vision Map ............................................ 17
Figure 5: Project Phases ............................................ 22
Figure 6: Department Organization .................................. 28
Figure 7: Park Classification Map .................................... 32
Figure 8: Sports Complexes and Sports Fields ......................... 35
Figure 9: Indoor Recreation Facilities  ................................ 37
Figure 10: Engagement Timeline ..................................... 45
Figure 11: Mapping Exercise Summary  ............................... 52
Figure 12: Age Distribution in Cheyenne MPO, 2023 .................... 56
Figure 13: Racial Distribution, 2023 .................................. 56
Figure 14: Current Percentage Parkland Acres  ........................ 59
Figure 15: Park Walkshed Map ....................................... 62
Figure 16: Trail Walkshed Map ....................................... 64
Figure 17: CRS Revenue Chart ....................................... 68
Figure 18: CRS Expense Chart ....................................... 68
Figure 19: Program-Pricing Pyramid  ................................. 70
Figure 20: Equity Index Priority Map Composite. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Figure 21: Age, Ability, and Health Indicators Map  ..................... 77
Figure 22: Demographic, Economic, and Social Indicators Map .......... 77
Figure 23: Natural and Environmental Hazards Indicators Map ......... 77
Figure 24: Plan Vision Map .......................................... 83
Figure 25: Open Space Potential Map ................................ 103
Figure 26: Acquisitions and Disposals Map ........................... 109
Figure 27: Prioritization Diagram .................................... 113
CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  .......................................................................................... 2
PLAN OVERVIEW ................................................... 3
CURRENT PARK SYSTEM ............................................ 5
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT ......................................... 11
OPPORTUNITIES FOR CONSIDERATION ............................... 13
PLAN THEMES  ..................................................... 15
VISION FOR THE FUTURE  ........................................... 17
INTRODUCTION ....................................................................................................20
PLAN PURPOSE  .................................................... 21
CHEYENNE PARKS AND RECREATION HISTORY ...................... 23
PAST PLAN ACCOMPLISHMENTS .................................... 25
DEPARTMENT STRUCTURE ......................................... 27
INVENTORY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
RELEVANT PLAN SUMMARY ........................................ 39
ALIGNMENT WITH RELEVANT PLANS  ................................ 41
COMMUNITY INPUT AND VALUES  .....................................................................44
ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY .......................................... 45
FOCUS GROUPS ................................................... 47
COMMUNITY SURVEY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP ........................................... 51
PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION ...............................................................................54
COMMUNITY PROFILE  ............................................. 55
RECREATION TRENDS  ............................................. 57
LEVEL OF SERVICE ASSESSMENT .................................... 59
WALKSHED ANALYSIS .............................................. 61
TRAIL WALKSHED ................................................. 63
PARK OPERATIONS ASSESSMENT ................................... 65
COMMUNITY FACILITY FEES AND CONTRIBUTIONS ................... 67
FEES AND PRICING STRUCTURES ................................... 69
FACILITIES ASSESSMENT ............................................ 71
RECREATION PROGRAMS AND SERVICES ASSESSMENT ............... 73
EQUITY PRIORITY MAPPING ........................................ 75
EQUITY INDICATORS  .............................................. 77
THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES  ...................................................................80
PLAN FRAMEWORK  ............................................... 81
PLAN THEMES  .................................................... 82
PLAN VISION  ..................................................... 83
ACTIVE YEAR-ROUND  ............................................. 87
MEETING MORE NEEDS ............................................ 91
CELEBRATE COMMUNITY CULTURE AND PLACE ...................... 95
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ................................... 99
ALIGN AND EXPAND FUNDING ..................................... 107
IMPLEMENTATION .............................................................................................. 112
PRIORITIZING INVESTMENT ........................................ 113
ACTION PLAN ..................................................... 115
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS  ................................. 117
FUNDING METHODS AND SOURCES ................................ 125
1
2
3
4
5
6 APPENDIX ...................................................................................................................
A. EXISTING CONDITIONS .............................................
B. ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY  ..........................................
C. NEEDS ASSESSMENT ...............................................
    2
EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY
 » Plan Overview
 » Current Park System
 » Community Engagement
 » Opportunities for Consideration
 » Plan Themes
 » Vision for the Future

3  |  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  |  4
PLAN OVERVIEW
ABOUT THE PLAN
This Plan, adopted in 2025, replaces the previous 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan, last 
updated in 2006. Much has changed in the past 
nearly 20 years, including changes in the city’s 
expanding footprint and population, changes 
in recreation trends, and park and greenway 
development.
This plan serves as a strategic roadmap, guiding 
the City in ensuring equitable access to quality 
parks, green spaces, recreation facilities, and 
community programs. It is designed to meet the 
community’s current and future needs, promoting 
a healthier and more connected Cheyenne. While 
the City of Cheyenne's Community Recreation 
& Events Department is largely responsible for 
implementing this plan, other City departments, 
City leaders, regional organizations, partners, 
and citizens will contribute to making this plan a 
reality.
Overall, Cheyenne’s parks and recreation 
offerings significantly enhance the quality of life 
in Cheyenne by offering a tranquil escape from 
urban life, promoting health and wellness, and 
creating a strong community bond. Commitment 
to stewardship is evident through maintenance 
efforts, preservation initiatives, and educational 
programs, highlighting the City’s dedication to 
ensuring a healthy environment for current and 
future generations. 
This plan reflects Cheyenne's community values 
and is tailored to its attributes and resources. 
Priorities identified for improvements and program 
offerings result from extensive community input 
collected throughout 2024. Many needs and 
interests were identified through this process, 
with a recognition that funding and resources are 
limited. This 20-year vision provides flexibility 
in implementing projects and initiatives based 
on budgetary ability over time and achieving 
meaningful improvements throughout Cheyenne.
WHY A PARKS AND 
RECREATION SYSTEM 
PLAN?
 » Provide a long-term vision for the 
community;
 » Capture an understanding of current 
community needs and desires;
 » Address projected community change; 
and
 » Identify new policies, maintenance 
approaches, community services, and 
investment priorities.
PARKS AND RECREATION 
PLAN VISION STATEMENT
To promote cultural enrichment and 
foster community stewardship in 
Cheyenne by creating exceptional parks, 
natural spaces, recreational facilities, 
and opportunities that enhance the 
quality of life and contribute to the 
greater economic development of the 
city.
COMMUNITY RECREATION 
& EVENTS MISSION 
STATEMENT
“The mission of Cheyenne’s Community 
Recreation & Events Department 
is to create community through 
people, parks, events, and programs 
by providing recreational, health, 
and entertainment opportunities 
that positively impact quality of life, 
economic and workforce development, 
and youth retention.”
Lions Park
5  |  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  |  6
CURRENT PARK SYSTEM
PARKS AND RECREATION OFFERINGS 
SUMMARY
Cheyenne owns and manages 61 publicly accessible 
parks, open spaces, and undeveloped properties 
totaling approximately 1,077 park acres. This park 
acreage includes 633 acres of developed parkland 
and 412 acres of natural land as categorized in 
Figure 1. The City also has an extensive greenway 
network of 47 miles and an additional 11 miles 
of shared-use trails. See Figure 3 for Cheyenne’s 
park system inventory map. The City of Cheyenne 
has eight outdoor sports complexes, seven indoor 
community facilities and event spaces, and two 
aquatic centers, the Cheyenne Aquatics Center, and 
the Johnson Swimming Pool.
CHEYENNE METROPOLITAN PLANNING 
ORGANIZATION (MPO) BOUNDARY
The Cheyenne service area, defined by the 
Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization 
(MPO) boundary, is considered throughout this 
project to gain insights into demographic and 
recreational trends for the city and nearby 
communities, as seen in Figure 3. The MPO 
boundary is used to help understand future 
growth and is currently used in other planning 
efforts in Cheyenne.
LEVEL OF SERVICE AND NEEDS 
ASSESSMENT
The current system analysis includes an evaluation 
of Level of Service (LOS) standards for parks, 
trails, and recreational facilities to understand its 
implications for the City of Cheyenne.
The analysis considers current trends, community 
input, and a variety of metrics to evaluate 
community needs and interests, including the 
following:
 » recreation trends;
 » updated park classifications;
 » recreation facilities assessment;
 » walkshed analysis for parks, greenways and 
trails, and destination parks;
 » level of service assessment;
 » equity priority analysis; and
 » current city properties assessment.
The analysis provides valuable insight into the 
necessary enhancements required for the park 
system, informing the establishment of project 
priorities. Overall, with population growth 
expected to slow over the next ten years, these 
findings point to Cheyenne being able to maintain 
current levels of service of park and open space 
acres per population (12 acres per 1,000) with the 
addition of developing a few planned projects. 
However, the level of service should be improved 
regarding the quality of offerings, number 
of amenities in parks, indoor programs, and 
addressing gaps in park locations. A more detailed 
analysis of these findings is in Chapter 3.
PROPERTY TYPES
Currently, 58% (31 properties, totaling 633 acres) 
of Cheyenne’s parklands are developed parks, and 
38% (27 properties, totaling 412 acres) are natural 
areas (Figure 1).
* National Recreation and Park Association 2024 Agency 
Performance Report for Agencies with Populations 
between 50,000 to 99,999 residents. Parkland includes 
maintained parks and accessible open space.
Cheyenne Total Park 
Acres Per 1,000 
Population (2023) =  
12 acres
Cheyenne Total Parks 
and Open Space =  
1087 acres
Figure 1: Percent Parkland Acres
Developed 
Parks
Undeveloped/
Planned ParksOpen Space & 
Greenways
58%
38%
4%
Greater Cheyenne Greenway
Figure 2: Park and Open Space per 1000 
Residents
National Average
Top 25%
Median
Bottom 
25%
 CHEYENNE
12 
Acres of parks and open 
space per 1000 residents
PARK AND OPEN SPACE PROVISIONS
Cheyenne has slightly more park and open 
space acres per 1,000 residents (12 acres) than 
the median of similar size communities (10.2 
acres) (Figure 2). Nearly 40% of Cheyenne's 
park acreage is made up of open space or 
greenway natural areas.
7  |  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  |  8
CURRENT PARK SYSTEM
CHEYENNE’S PARK SYSTEM MAP
0 0.75 1.5 3 MI
Lake, Pond, River, Stream
Indoor Community Facility 
and Event Center
Greenway and Trails
Shared Use Trails
County Park and Greenway
Federal Lands
LEGEND
Cheyenne City Limits
Cheyenne Parks
31 public 
parks
412 acres of 
natural land
58 miles of 
trails
8 outdoor 
sports 
complexes
7 indoor 
community 
facilities
Figure 3: Park Inventory Map
Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning 
Organization (MPO) Boundary
MPO BOUNDARY MAP
9  |  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  |  10
EQUITY PRIORITY AREAS
Higher priority equity zones are shown in the darker red and indicate areas that require the most 
attention and resources due to indicators of higher concentrations of vulnerable populations, health 
conditions, and environmental inequities. These areas are primarily situated in the southwest and 
central parts of the City and tend to be near highways, railways, and other infrastructure routes. See 
Chapter 3 for more information.
PARK WALKSHED ANALYSIS
A walkshed is the time it takes to walk from 
home to a park or trail using pedestrian-friendly 
sidewalks or paths.
RECREATION DATA TRENDS AT A 
GLANCE
As part of the park system evaluation, it’s 
important to understand current recreation trends 
to determine changing recreation patterns and 
identify service gaps to improve planning efforts. 
The below highlights key national, state, and 
regional adult trend activities informed by sources 
like the Wyoming Outdoor Recreation Report and 
the Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation 
Plan (SCORP), among others. More information is 
available in Chapter 3, and a more detailed report 
is in the Appendix.
 » Barbecuing
 » Hiking
 » Swimming
 » Overnight camping
 » Bicycling (road)
Popular Outdoor activities
 » Walking for exercise
 » Weightlifting
 » Jogging/running
 » Yoga
 » Aerobics
Popular Fitness activities
 » Golf
 » Basketball
 » Tennis
 » Soccer
 » Baseball
Popular General Sports
Park Walkshed: 0.5 mile 
(ten minute walk)
83% of Cheyenne 
households are within a 
10-minute walk from a 
park
COMMUNITY AT A GLANCE
$59,994
Median Household Income
54.4
Diversity Index
2%
Unemployment Rate
64.3%
Homeownership 
43.2%
Employment in the Service 
Industry
EQUITY PRIORITY
Lowest Priority
Highest Priority
0 0.75 1.5 3 MI
Source: Esri Business Analyst 2023. The demographic data 
includes the City of Cheyenne and the surrounding service area, 
specifically the Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization 
(MPO) Boundary.
78.9%
Not Living a Healthy Lifestyle
(Laramie County 2017-2021)
Source: Wyoming Department of Health 2017-2021. The health 
data includes Laramie County adults reporting smoking, no leisure 
time activity, or not being at a healthy weight. 
90,045
Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning 
Organization (MPO) Boundary 
Population (2023)
66,208
Cheyenne City Limits Population 
(2023)
2.33
Median Household Size
38.7
Median Age
11  |  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  |  12
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT 
PARTICIPATION
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
COMMUNITY INPUT OPPORTUNITIES
Community input was gathered using various 
methods to understand the needs and desires of 
the community. Through these various methods, 
the process exceeded the goals of hearing from 
representatives of all city and surrounding area 
residents, park and recreation users, and partners 
such as youth program providers and visitor 
services. Engagement methods included:
FOCUS GROUP HIGHLIGHTSCOMMUNITY SURVEY 
HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 » 62% of respondents most commonly 
use Cheyenne’s parks and recreation 
system for walking, hiking, and 
running.
 » 5 in 10 respondents most commonly 
use Cheyenne’s parks and recreation 
system for spending time with family 
and friends and enjoying nature.
 » 60% of respondents identified 
seasonal weather constraints as the 
most common reason preventing the 
use of parks and recreation facilities.
 » 73% of respondents indicated need 
for more indoor recreation spaces.
 » Providing places and programs for 
people to maintain and improve their 
health and fitness, providing places 
for all to play, and protecting natural 
environments were identified as the 
top three most important purposes of 
Cheyenne's parks and recreation.
 » 82% of respondents indicated 
they would be extremely willing or 
somewhat likely to support additional 
funding and spending for parks and 
recreation improvements in the future.
Community Survey
Community Workshop 
with Mapping Exercise
Six Focus Group 
Discussions
Adult Athletics and Activities, 
City Youth Athletic Programs, 
Community Growth and Tourism, 
Operations and Maintenance, 
Special Populations and Program 
Providers, Greenways and Trails/
Open Space and Natural Resources
Draft Plan Review 
Questionnaires
710 
Respondents
41 
Participants
53 Total 
Stakeholder 
Participants
52 
Respondents
Community Open House: 
Engagement Boards
Year-round weather 
constraints lend to a strong 
desire for indoor recreation 
opportunities.
Amenities like sports courts, 
fields, and ice face high 
demand at peak times.
There is a need to improve 
connections and expand 
offerings on the south side.
There are differing perceptions 
of the role of manicured lawn 
and natural areas.
The greenway is an 
exceptional asset to the city.
Clear policies and standards 
are needed for new open 
spaces, particularly for 
developers.
There are opportunities for 
placemaking and art in parks 
and along the greenway.
There is a need for additional 
maintenance and renovation 
funds.
Desire to prioritize quality 
over quantity when making 
decisions about new park 
facilities and maintenance.
Community SurveyCommunity Survey Focus Group Meetings
City Department Discussions
Steering Committee and City 
Council Meetings
Focus Group Meetings
Online Community Survey
Community Workshop Open 
House and Pop-up Event
Draft Plan Review
Extremely likely
Somewhat likely
Somewhat unlikely
Extremely unlikely
Unsure at this time
57%
25%
2%
2%
13%
Likelihood of supporting additional 
funding and spending.
Why do you choose to visit Cheyenne’s 
parks and recreation facilities?
13  |  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  |  14
OPPORTUNITIES FOR CONSIDERATION
WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT
These opportunities for consideration describe 
the overarching areas of focus and aspirations 
represented throughout this master plan 
document. They have been derived through 
a needs assessment, conversations with 
stakeholders, and considerations of resources.
OPPORTUNITIES
DIVERSE PROGRAMMING, CULTURE AND ART
The City of Cheyenne’s park and recreation 
system strongly focuses on sports programming, 
particularly aquatic and youth activities. There is 
a high demand for more sports courts and field 
availability. However, there is also an opportunity 
to reach a broader audience by expanding diverse 
programming, increasing the availability of 
cultural programs, and offering more diverse 
indoor and outdoor options. Addressing the gap 
in non-sports programming, such as art classes, 
music, theater, and cultural workshops, opens 
avenues for creative engagement that can appeal 
to a wider demographic and is not provided for 
robustly by other organizations in the community.
Other opportunities could incorporate all-inclusive 
programming that spans all ages and promotes 
intergenerational learning, collaboration, and 
community cohesion, creating spaces where 
everyone feels welcome. However, there are 
currently limitations of indoor space, program 
staff, and funding that must be overcome. 
Emphasizing placemaking through integrating 
art and culture in public spaces further enhances 
a sense of identity and belonging, making cities 
more vibrant and engaging. Cheyenne has an 
opportunity to use design and art in public 
spaces to express more of its culture and unique 
landscape.
PARTNERSHIPS AND COLLABORATION
Cheyenne has the potential for partnerships and 
collaborations between community organizations 
and other third-party alliances. These partnerships 
are key to expanding access to diverse 
programming and ensuring long-term success. 
With changes in the public school system’s facility 
availability for public use and recreation offerings, 
many programs that were once accessible, such as 
after-school activities, have shifted, creating gaps 
in access for students and families. By partnering 
with organizations like the Boys and Girls Club 
and others, communities can help bridge this gap, 
providing alternative learning, growth, and social 
development spaces. Volunteer programs provide 
extra support, involving community members in 
mentoring and leadership roles to expand program 
reach.
Expanding the availability of cost-accessible 
programming and ensuring that all families, 
regardless of income, can participate in these 
enriching experiences is also important to the 
community.
NATURAL ASSETS, OPEN SPACE AND 
GREENWAY
The City’s greenways are valuable assets that 
help support the growing demand for walking, 
biking, and hiking, aligning with current health and 
wellness trends. Greenways provide recreational 
connectivity throughout the city as well as to 
nature. There is an opportunity to continue to 
enhance open space surrounding trails to improve 
experiences, healthy natural systems and wildlife 
habitat, and create a more resilient community. 
Greenways can link parks and open space together 
to create a linear park system that encourages 
active lifestyles.
Preserving natural areas and supporting tree and 
native landscape health, such as the endangered 
short-grass prairie ecosystem, is an important role 
of the City's outdoor spaces. Promoting education 
about the benefits of natural areas can deepen 
community support for conservation efforts, 
inspiring more outdoor activities for personal well-
being and environmental stewardship.
CHALLENGES
FUNDING AND MAINTENANCE
Cheyenne has beautiful parks and facilities that 
are currently maintained year-round. One of the 
main challenges for funding and supporting the 
park system is finding a balance between the 
increasing demands for program expansion and 
the ongoing need to maintain existing facilities.
Maintenance costs are often high, particularly 
as parks age and infrastructure requires regular 
upkeep. Expanding programming increases the 
financial burden, requiring more resources to 
support new offerings without compromising 
existing quality. Another challenge is the lack of 
staff, which further complicates these efforts. 
Resources are often stretched thin, with fewer 
personnel to manage day-to-day operations and 
long-term projects. Ensuring sustainable funding 
is critical to overcoming these challenges and 
maintaining vibrant, well-functioning parks and 
recreation systems.
CHANGING COMMUNITY DYNAMICS
There have been slight shifts in Cheyenne’s 
demographics that are important to address to 
meet the diverse needs of its residents. With 
the city not projected to experience significant 
population growth, the challenge becomes 
maintaining or enhancing services without the 
economic boost that growth typically provides. 
Recreation and parks contribute greatly to quality 
of life, but unmet needs can prompt people with 
choice, especially young adults, families, and 
seniors, to move to communities that better meet 
their expectations. 
Lower-income populations often rely heavily 
on public parks and recreational services for 
accessible leisure, health, and social interaction. 
Still, funding constraints may limit the quality 
and availability of these services. Additionally, 
when development is already planned out with 
limited room for new or adaptive projects, it can 
be difficult to pivot or introduce new initiatives to 
meet the changing needs of the community. These 
dynamics require thoughtful, inclusive planning to 
ensure parks and recreation continue to serve all 
residents effectively.
CLIMATE RISK AND PUBLIC HEALTH 
Climate risk and public health pose increasing 
challenges for Cheyenne’s parks and recreation 
systems as extreme weather events, such 
as strong winds, flooding, heat exposure and 
wildfire risks, become more frequent. These 
conditions limit outdoor activity, can damage park 
infrastructure, reduce ecosystem biodiversity 
and wildlife habitat health, and expose visitors to 
harmful pollutants, making parks less safe and 
appealing. 
A lack of shade in many public spaces heightens 
these risks, leaving people vulnerable to heat 
stress and UV exposure, especially during hotter 
months. Flooding further intensifies these 
challenges by eroding trails, damaging vegetation, 
and disrupting access to recreational areas. As 
global challenges like climate change continue 
to impact local environments, parks will need 
to be adapted to mitigate these risks through 
resilient infrastructure, enhanced green spaces, 
and innovative design solutions that prioritize 
public and natural systems health. This will require 
planning for immediate weather-related risks 
and considering long-term sustainability in urban 
parks to protect both the environment and the 
communities that depend on these public spaces 
for recreation and wellness.
CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE PLAN 
THEMES
The Plan Themes incorporate these 
opportunities for consideration and address 
key areas identified through research and 
community engagement. Each theme reflects 
a commitment to enhancing the quality of life 
in Cheyenne, aligning with the community’s 
values, and responding to the priorities 
identified through the needs assessment and 
resource evaluation. Together, these themes 
set a framework for decision-making that will 
shape Cheyenne's park and recreation system 
over the coming decade.
15  |  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  |  16
PLAN THEMES
Active Year Round
Cheyenne focuses on providing recreational amenities and programs that 
attract and serve the population during all seasons. It includes extending the 
use and play at existing facilities, completing planned park projects, and sharing 
information widely to inform the public about what Cheyenne has to offer. This 
focus is critical for community health and being a place people want to be.
Meet More Needs
Cheyenne recognizes the need for improved health and well-being of underserved 
populations through parks and recreational programs, as well as opportunities 
that contribute to population (youth) retention through various means, including 
cultural enrichment and arts.
Celebrate Community Culture & 
Place
Cheyenne has much to celebrate as a City - its Western identity and supporting 
history, a community of highly invested stewards and volunteers that have a 
reputation for giving and shaping their community, and its position as Wyoming’s 
State Capitol – to name a few. These will be evident in the city's places and 
programs.
Environmental Stewardship
Cheyenne’s Community Recreation & Events department demonstrates ingenuity 
and resourcefulness. It’s a hallmark of our operational structure. The City works 
with the natural systems as environmental stewards to promote a healthy 
ecosystem, promote climate resiliency, educate the community about the 
benefits of natural systems, and deliver the highest quality parks, facilities, and 
offerings for the community.
Align and Expand Funding
Cheyenne places great importance on its park and recreation system, focusing 
on practical elements of funding, implementation, and real estate management 
– how to best leverage developer fees through updated rates, how to fund 
new facilities and amenities, how to provide clear policies on appropriate land 
dedications towards parks and recreation, and how to support the park system 
through partnerships.
PLAN THEMES
Through comprehensive community 
engagement, stakeholder discussions, 
and a detailed needs assessment, five key 
themes have emerged that encapsulate 
the distinctive characteristics and 
priorities of Cheyenne. These themes are 
crafted to establish a framework that 
not only improves the quality of parks 
and recreation services but also fosters 
community cohesion.
Collectively, these themes articulate 
a unified vision for Cheyenne’s Parks 
and Recreation Plan, addressing the 
community’s aspirations and challenges. 
They serve as a strategic roadmap for 
enhancing the accessibility, sustainability, 
and cultural significance of the park 
system, ultimately enriching the quality of 
life for all residents. 
The themes represent the overall vision for 
the plan. They communicate and direct the 
focus for the next ten years.
17  |  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  |  18
The Plan Vision Map (Figure 4) reflects the plan’s 
themes, goals, and values identified during 
the engagement process and through site 
observations. The Vision Map highlights locations 
for major physical improvements, connectivity 
opportunities, and priority areas to address gaps 
and needs over the next decade or more. For more 
detailed information on the plan’s themes, goals, 
and values, refer to Chapter 4. Chapter 5 expresses 
details for making this vision a reality, including 
prioritized action items with potential time periods 
for projects, policy changes, and operational 
improvements. 
VISION FOR THE FUTURE
Figure 4: Plan Vision Map
CHEYENNE’S PLAN VISION MAP
Sports Complex Improvements
Aquatics Facility Improvements
Nature Education Opportunity
Trail Connection Opportunity
Planned Parks
Potential Future Parkland 
Development
Park Master Plan
Playground Renovations
LEGEND
Cheyenne City Limits
Existing Indoor Facility Centers
Existing Parks
Existing Open Spaces
Planned Parks
Walkshed Gaps
High Priority Equity Zone
Existing Greenway Trails
Future Greenway Trails
Lakes, Rivers and Streams
0 0.75 1.5 3 MI

    20
INTRODUCTION
 » Plan Purpose
 » Cheyenne Parks and Recreation History
 » Past Plan Accomplishments
 » Department Structure
 » Inventory
 » Relevant Plan Summary
 » Alignment with Relevant Plans
1
21  |  INTRODUCTION     INTRODUCTION  |  22
PLAN PURPOSE
WHAT IS A PARK SYSTEM PLAN?
The Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Plan will 
guide decisions for the next ten years and help 
chart a deliberate path for growth and adaptation 
alongside the community.
THIS PLAN ANSWERS:
 » How should the City manage its Parks, Trails, 
Open Space and Recreation assets for the next 
10 years?
 » How are the current parks functioning? How can 
they better serve the community?
 » What are the community needs? How can 
programming better serve the community? 
 » What should the City prioritize for updating, 
replacing, and caring for facilities and parks?
 » How can the park system be more accessible and 
welcoming to all?
 » What new capital projects should be prioritized 
within the next decade?
 » What additional funding is needed to maintain 
and improve Cheyenne's offerings?
WHY A PARK SYSTEM PLAN?
The plan is a long-range planning document that 
guides the City in developing and maintaining 
programs, facilities, parks, and natural lands. 
This planning effort takes a fresh look at the 
system and, with multiple opportunities for 
community outreach and engagement, reflects the 
community’s values.
The future improvements identified within this 
plan are not a mandate or promise, as they are 
funding dependent. As a guiding plan for City 
leadership and staff, the strategies and projects 
identified are flexible to respond to changing 
opportunities and influences.
PLAN CREATION PROCESS
The planning process included three stages 
of plan development (Figure 5): 1) Establish a 
foundation of understanding, 2) Create a shared 
vision, and 3) Final vision plan. The first stage 
focused on assessing the existing conditions of the 
current Cheyenne parks and recreation system. 
Additionally, it kicked off community engagement 
through focus groups and steering committee 
meetings.
The second phase focused on developing and 
drafting the plan with additional input from city 
staff and the community to envision the project’s 
Greenway Volunteers
core values and goals. The final phase involved the 
City Council’s approval and adoption of the plan.
The plan content evolved at each stage to 
incorporate community feedback, analysis 
findings, prioritization, and strategy development. 
Additionally, community engagement was 
intertwined throughout each development phase, 
including interactive workshops, surveys, public 
and steering committee meetings and direction, 
and city staff and leadership workshops.
Figure 5: Project Phases
ESTABLISH A 
FOUNDATION OF 
UNDERSTANDING
Fall 2023 Spring 2024 Summer 2024 Winter 2024/2025
ONLINE COMMUNITY SURVEY
STEERING COMMITTEE MEETING
COMMUNITY PROFILE
INVENTORY/ANALYSIS
GAP ANALYSIS
EQUITY MAPPING
RECREATION TRENDS
LEVEL OF SERVICE
FOCUS GROUP MEETINGS
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
COMMUNITY QUESTIONNAIRE
STEERING COMMITTEE MEETING
STEERING COMMITTEE MEETING
PUBLIC DRAFT REVIEW
COUNCIL WORK SESSION
PLAN DEVELOPMENT
FINAL PLAN
RESEARCH & TRENDS
PROJECT KICK OFF
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
CREATE A 
SHARED 
VISION
FINAL VISION 
PLAN
COUNCIL ADOPTION
23  |  INTRODUCTION     INTRODUCTION  |  24
CHEYENNE PARKS AND RECREATION HISTORY
The first Parks System Master Plan was 
developed in 1992. This plan emphasized 
developing the park system within the 
urban area and including indoor recreational 
facilities and community centers that 
fall within the scope, responsibility, and 
authority of the City Parks and Recreation 
Department. This plan was updated in 2006, 
with the current 2025 plan building upon 
previous efforts.
On July 4, 1867, the first tents were 
pitched on the site now known as 
Cheyenne. Cheyenne means "aliens" or 
"people of foreign language." The Sioux 
Indians gave this name to the Indian 
tribe, "Dzitsistes," who roamed the open 
plains. Their spelling was Shyenne. The 
first settlers were men who moved west 
to work on the Union Pacific Railroad. 
The majority of settlers moved away 
when the railroad was completed in 
November of that same year. Those who 
stayed joined to form this new thriving 
western town. 
The early years of Cheyenne were rife with 
the types of lively entertainment synonymous 
with the "Wild West." Cheyenne was a lively 
place with five "variety" theaters in operation 
simultaneously. Every other building was a saloon. 
The shows had regular stages and gave what was 
called "burlesque" performances with plenty of 
female performers.
1867
1870 1975-1991
1992 - 2006
1930
Two Cheyenne businessmen retained S.R 
DeBoer to create a scenic drive along Crow 
Creek. Their intent was to emphasize the 
creek's assets and to eliminate its hazards.
Open Space Plan for Cheyenne and Laramie County: 
The plan recommended a system of greenways and 
pathways throughout the Cheyenne area. The plan 
and the vision for Crow Creek was officially adopted 
to a community-wide greenway with a comprehensive 
system of bike lanes and bike routes in 1991.
As Cheyenne developed into a civilized city, 
larger community parks began to develop. In 
the late 1800s, many were sited around lakes or 
in the undeveloped fringes of the old City. Over 
time, many of the larger parks were reduced in 
size to accommodate more development.
1880
1882-1920
The expansion of Cheyenne's park system began 
with James Jenkins, who planted the first tree 
in 1878 and led fundraising efforts to establish 
Old City Park in 1882. In the early 1920s, Jenkins 
served as Park Commissioner, overseeing further 
improvements at Sloan's Lake and other parks. By 
the mid-20th century, the original site of Old City 
Park became home to the Wyoming State Supreme 
Court Building and the Wyoming State Museum.

25  |  INTRODUCTION     INTRODUCTION  |  26
PAST PLAN ACCOMPLISHMENTS
The 2006 Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
was one part of a comprehensive four-part plan 
designed to address the city’s expected growth 
in all facets of city infrastructure and long-
range planning. The Parks and Recreation Plan 
focused on assessing parklands and the need 
for parks, recreational facilities and programs, 
trails, cemeteries, and open spaces in light of the 
projected growth.
PARKLAND GROWTH SINCE THE 2006 
PLAN
The 2006 plan combined the functional park area, 
showing 70.19 acres of developed neighborhood 
and pocket parks and 333.93 acres of developed 
community parks and sports complexes. Since 
then, the Community Recreation & Events Division 
has incorporated an additional 228.55 acres of 
developed parks (Table 1). Moreover, the City 
has built over 31 miles of new greenway trails, 
supported various park and recreation projects, 
and preserved an additional 300 acres of open 
space, natural lands, and natural corridors. The 
City recently took over the Beast gym and has 
been constructing a new gymnastic facility to 
support indoor programming that was no longer 
being provided by other entities. 
Cahill Park
PARKLAND ACRES COMPARISON
Developed Parks 2024 Acres 2006 Acres
Community and Sports 
Complexes
524.67 333.93
Neighborhood and Mini/
Pocket
108.00 70.19
Total Developed Park 
Acres
632.67 404.12
Natural Lands/Natural 
Corridors
411.86 111.08
Total Acres 1044.53 515.20
Table 1: 2006 Plan Parkland Acres Comparison
PROJECTS COMPLETED 
SINCE THE 2006 PLAN
PARKS AND OPEN SPACE
 » 228.55 added acres of developed 
parkland
 » 111.08 added acres of natural lands, 
open space and greenway corridors
 » Development of David R. Romero Park
 » Acquisition, master plan, and access 
to Kiwanis Park
 » Belvoir Ranch and Big Hole Master 
Plan (2008, 2025 update)
 » Development of Civic Commons
FACILITIES
 » Gymnastics Facility (2024/2025 
projected opening)
 » The Beast acquisition (2024)
 » Playground upgrades (Lincoln Park, 
Optimist Park)
 » Added 20 pickleball courts to the 
system
GREENWAY AND TRAILS
 » 31.02 added miles of the Greater 
Cheyenne Greenway
27  |  INTRODUCTION     INTRODUCTION  |  28
DEPARTMENT STRUCTURE
• Cheyenne Depot Plaza
• Park Shelters/Amphitheater
• Community Buildings
• Activity Center
• Kiwanis Community House
• Pioneer Park Center and Youth Activity & Community Center
• Sports Fields & Complexes
• Special Events in the Parks
• City parks
• Greater Cheyenne Greenway
• Triangular and median strips located throughout the City
• Maintenance of fields for Softball, Baseball and Soccer
• Sports and Fitness Classes
• Pickleball
• Dog and horse classes
• Martial arts
• Sunset Goat Hiking
• Airport Golf Club
• Kingham Prairie View Golf Course
PARKS DIVISION
THE PROGRAMS & FACILITIES DIVISION
RECREATION DIVISION
GOLF DIVISION
CHEYENNE AQUATICS CENTER 
CHEYENNE BOTANIC GARDENS 
CHEYENNE URBAN FORESTRY
CEMETERY DIVISION
ICE & EVENTS
CLEAN & SAFE
WEED, PEST, VECTOR CONTROL
CIVIC CENTER
Figure 6: Department Organization
COMMUNITY RECREATION & EVENTS 
The Community Recreation & Events 
Administration oversees the entire department, 
which includes the Parks Division, Programs & 
Facilities Division, Recreation Division, and other 
divisions such as Aquatics, Botanic Gardens, 
Cemetery, Civic Center, Clean & Safe, Ice & Events, 
Golf, Urban Forestry, and Weed & Pest (Figure 6). 
These operations focus on ensuring the provision 
of quality parks, recreational services, and diverse 
programs. This encompasses activities such as 
beautification, grounds maintenance, capital 
improvements, and the management of facilities. 
The Community Recreation & Events also assists 
in larger projects and planning efforts, such as this 
vision plan and greenway trail planning.
The Parks Division plays a crucial role in 
maintaining the City’s outdoor facilities and is 
responsible for maintaining 61 city parks, including 
open space, greenway corridors, undeveloped 
properties, and 58 miles of the Greater Cheyenne 
Greenway and shared-use trails. In addition, the 
City oversees the management and maintenance 
of storm detention areas and visual resources, 
including the triangular and median strips 
throughout the city. Other areas of responsibility 
include the maintenance of the sports fields, 
including softball, baseball, and soccer.
The Programs & Facilities Division oversees the 
day-to-day operations and coordination of the 
indoor and outdoor facilities, sports complexes, 
community centers, and event centers. The 
division is responsible for managing childcare 
programs, the event space in the community and 
facility centers, handling rentals, including park 
shelters, the amphitheater, and sports fields, and 
overseeing events in parks.
The Recreation Division offers a variety of 
programs and classes, including instructional, 
classroom, sports and fitness activities, 
gymnastics, youth and adult athletics, and special 
events.
Sun Valley Park
COMMUNITY RECREATION & EVENTS
29  |  INTRODUCTION     INTRODUCTION  |  30
INVENTORY
PARKS AND OPEN SPACE
The City of Cheyenne provides a wide variety of 
parks for residents of Cheyenne, its surrounding 
areas, and Laramie County. Currently, Laramie 
County provides recreational services at Clear 
Creek Park, hosts events at the Archer Events 
Complex, and manages parts of the Greater 
Cheyenne Greenway, with many residents living 
outside the city limits utilizing Cheyenne’s park 
system and recreational facilities.
The City of Cheyenne’s Parks Division manages 
61 parks, covering 1,087 acres. This includes 31 
developed public parks, including community 
parks, neighborhood parks, mini parks, and sports 
complexes. The park inventory includes 27 open 
space properties and greenway corridors, totaling 
412 acres. These areas protect natural resources 
and provide outdoor recreational opportunities, 
with the greenway corridors offering access to the 
trail system and space for park-like recreation. A 
list of the City’s parks, open spaces, and greenway 
corridors are listed in Table 2. The Parks Division 
owns three undeveloped properties intended for 
future parks or open space, currently inaccessible 
to the public (Table 3). In addition to these parks, 
the Division oversees storm detention areas and 
visual resource areas, although these facilities 
do not provide recreational opportunities. The 
Golf Division manages the Airport Golf Club and 
Kingham Prairie View Golf Course.
The Division also provides approximately 58 linear 
miles of trails throughout the trail system. This 
includes an expansive greenway with 150 trails 
and 40 shared-use trails, offering connections, 
recreational opportunities, and multimodal 
transportation throughout the City.
The Belvoir Ranch and Big Hole Properties, 
located 8 miles west of Downtown Cheyenne, 
add approximately 18,800 acres of open space to 
the city’s land holdings. This land is undergoing 
a separate master plan process and is not yet 
accessible to the public.
Appendix A shows a full list of inventories for 
parks and trails.
31 public 
parks
5 community parks
11 neighborhood parks
7 mini parks
8 sports complexes
412 acres of 
natural land
266 acres of open space
146 acres of greenway 
corridors
58 miles of 
trails
47 miles of greenway
11 miles of shared-use 
trail
Table 2: Cheyenne’s Publicly Accessible Park Inventory
Park Name Classification Acres
Cahill Park Community 32.82
David R. Romero South 
Cheyenne Community 
Park
Community 37.04
Holliday Park Community 39.53
Lions Park Community 129.17
North Cheyenne 
Community Park Community 117.13
Highlands Park Neighborhood 2.80
Jaycee Park Neighborhood 2.16
Lincoln Park Neighborhood 1.94
Martin Luther King Jr. 
Park Neighborhood 10.25
Mylar Park Neighborhood 26.03
Optimist Park Neighborhood 2.67
Pointe Park Neighborhood 16.27
Saddle Ridge Park Neighborhood 13.59
Smalley Park Neighborhood 4.82
Sun Valley Park Neighborhood 16.14
United Nations Park Neighborhood 2.85
Abbott Park Mini Park 0.40
Bar X Park Mini Park 2.29
Depot Plaza Mini Park 1.57
Leo Pando Park Mini Park 2.22
Moore Park Mini Park 0.80
Western Hills Park Mini Park 0.84
Windmill/Cactus Park Mini Park 0.37
Brimmer Park Sports Complex 33.64
Converse Softball 
Complex Sports Complex 18.97
Dutcher Field Sports Complex 30.06
Ice & Events Center Sports Complex 13.19
Junior League Complex Sports Complex 30.28
Pioneer Park Sports Complex 12.67
Powers Field Sports Complex 23.03
VFW Pride Park Sports Complex 7.14
Cahill Park Open Space 
Area Open Space 45.29
Centennial Park Open Space 8.20
Dry Creek Parkway Open Space 40.51
Kiwanis Park Open Space 104.23
Lake Absarraca 
Recreation Area Open Space 19.38
Sun Valley Open Space Open Space 48.79
Converse Ave Greenway Corridor 7.05
Crow Creek Greenway Corridor 19.30
Dakota Crossing 
Connector Greenway Corridor 0.09
Dell Range Blvd. Greenway Corridor 2.29
Dry Creek Greenway Corridor 31.85
Education & Manewal Greenway Corridor 0.62
Evans Ave Greenway Corridor 0.51
HR Ranch Rd. Greenway Corridor 10.42
Masonway Greenway Corridor 0.39
Pointe Greenway Corridor 2.50
Powderhouse Greenway Corridor 0.45
Saddle Ridge 1 Greenway Corridor 1.52
Sheridan St. Connector Greenway Corridor 0.16
South Link Greenway Corridor 4.57
South Park Greenway Corridor 0.96
Storey Blvd. Greenway Corridor 12.39
Sun Valley Greenway Corridor 28.08
US 30 Greenway Corridor 5.09
Wapa Corridor Greenway Corridor 13.75
Whitney Rd. Greenway Corridor 1.89
Windmill Rd. Greenway Corridor 1.57
Chukker Ridge Storm Detention 
Area 1.08
Civic Commons Storm Detention 
Area 1.69
Council Bluffs Storm Detention 
Area 1.86
Porcupine Park Storm Detention 
Area 0.70
Western Hills Detention 
Pond
Storm Detention 
Area 5.78
Park Name Classification Acres
UNDEVELOPED/PROPOSED
Park Name Classification Acres
Future Greenway Parcels Undeveloped/Proposed 22.20
Rotary Park Undeveloped/Proposed 9.93
Waterford Park Undeveloped/Proposed 10.83
Table 3: Cheyenne’s Undeveloped/Proposed Park Inventory
8 sports 
complexes, 
including:
 » Softball and baseball 
complexes
 » Soccer complex
 » Multi-purpose fields

31  |  INTRODUCTION     INTRODUCTION  |  32
CHEYENNE PARK BY CLASSIFICATION OTHER PARKS BY CLASSIFICATION
Community Park
Neighborhood Park
Mini Park
Sports Complex
Greenway Corridor
Undeveloped Park Lands
Golf Course
Storm Detention Area
County Park and Greenway
Cemetery Visual Resources
Federal Lands
Open Space
Figure 7: Park Classification Map
CHEYENNE’S PARK SYSTEM BY CLASSIFICATION MAP
Indoor Community Facility 
and Event Center
CHEYENNE PARK SYSTEM TOTALS
Classification Number of 
Properties Acres
Community 5 355.69
Neighborhood 11 99.52
Mini 7 8.48
Sports Complex 8 168.98
Total Developed Parks 31 633
Open Space 6 266.40
Greenway Corridor 21 145.46
Total Natural Lands 27 412
Undeveloped/Planned 3 42.88
Total 61 1087
Cheyenne Properties with no recreational opportunities 
or public access
Cemetery 5 60.04
Golf Course 2 204.13
Storm Detention Area 5 11.1
Visual Resource 55 50.2
Table 4: Cheyenne Parks by ClassificationPARK CLASSIFICATIONS
Parks are typically categorized for planning 
purposes according to their intended purpose or 
function, site characteristics, size, and the typical 
distance residents would travel to access them. 
The park classifications use standards and 
definitions similar to those of the City of 
Cheyenne’s 2006 Parks and Recreation Master 
Plan, providing an overall update to Cheyenne’s 
current park system (Table 5).
Park Classifications include Community, 
Neighborhood, Mini, Sports Complex, Open 
Space, Greenway Corridor, Undeveloped/Planned, 
Cemetery, Golf Course, Storm Detention Area, and 
Visual Resource. Table 4 summarizes Cheyenne’s 
park system properties by classification, number 
of properties, and acres.
The Park Classification Map is on the following 
page, illustrating the park inventory by 
classification (Figure 7). Displaying parks 
by classification shows how these parks are 
distributed throughout the city.
Holliday Park
INVENTORY
0 0.75 1.5 3 MI
33  |  INTRODUCTION     INTRODUCTION  |  34
SIZE PURPOSE AND FUNCTION SITE 
CHARACTERISTICS
SERVICE 
AREA ACCESS
Community Park
30+ acres Larger parks that serve the 
entire community are distributed 
throughout urban areas. Includes 
community-wide activities 
that serve a broad purpose, 
self-directed and programmed 
activities. It may include sports 
fields, courts, multipurpose 
playground equipment, large 
play structures, fitness trails, 
and picnic shelters. May include 
waterbodies, natural features, 
and gardens.
The site should have 
minimal topography 
to support passive and 
active recreational 
activities, active 
sports fields and 
events like festivals 
and performances.
Might have a mixture 
of maintained and 
natural areas.
Serve 
homes 
within 1 
mile walk 
of the park.
In Urban areas that 
typically have access 
from an arterial street 
and are easily accessible 
by car, bicycle, or foot. 
Access to the greenway 
trail system and public 
transit is desirable.
Off-street parking 
should be provided but 
may be supported by on-
street parking.
Neighborhood Park
2-30 acres Intended to serve residential 
neighborhoods in developed 
areas. Should provide active and 
passive recreation for short daily 
leisure periods for neighbors 
of all ages to gather, socialize, 
and play. May include leisure 
activities, small gathering spaces, 
shade pavilion, playground, 
looped trails, court/field games, 
skating, and sports play.
Typically, manicured 
landscaping with 
walking surfaces 
can withstand the 
impacts of heavy foot 
traffic. Portions of 
the site should have 
gentle topography to 
accommodate play 
equipment, creative 
play areas, and paved 
areas for team sports.
Serve 
homes 
within ½ 
mile walk 
of the park.
Are centrally located 
within residential 
areas. Accessible to the 
neighborhood population 
with safe walking and 
bicycle access and free 
of major highways and 
railroads. Access to 
pathways, sidewalks, 
and trails is ideal. 
On-street parking is 
typically adequate.
Mini Park
2 acres or 
less
Smaller parks intended to serve 
a limited area or neighborhood. 
Often provide visual relief within 
the urban landscape for the 
homes. Typically, has limited 
amenities but may include 
playground equipment, a small 
shade pavilion, park benches, and 
open turf areas for informal play. 
If space allows, mini parks may 
include a sports court.
Mini parks might 
have active or passive 
opportunities and 
addresses a specific 
neighborhood need.
Serve 
homes 
within ¼ 
mile walk 
of the park.
Centrally located 
within neighborhoods, 
along collector streets, 
along trails or drainage 
corridors, or in urban 
centers. Connected via 
sidewalks and pathways 
to residences. On street 
parking is adequate.
SIZE PURPOSE AND FUNCTION SITE 
CHARACTERISTICS
SERVICE 
AREA ACCESS
Sports Complex
Varies Provides specialized active 
recreation opportunities for 
the entire community. Offers 
programmed or self-directed 
sports including baseball, 
softball, soccer, tennis, hockey, 
and skateboarding. Sports 
complexes often fill service 
gaps for specialized sports 
facilities. Might offer additional 
amenities like play equipment, 
benches, greenway access, and 
concessions.
Varies based on the 
requirements of the 
park’s purpose. The 
location of sports 
complex properties 
should be carefully 
planned to ensure 
access, traffic control, 
and lighting and 
noise issues do not 
negatively impact 
neighborhoods.
Entire 
community
Typically have access 
from an arterial or 
collector street. Access 
to the greenway trail 
system and public 
transit is desirable. 
Parking should be 
provided off-street.
Open Space
Varies Open space sites protect significant 
natural areas and resources. These 
areas are typically maintained 
naturally and help preserve views, 
provide wildlife sanctuaries, and 
preserve lands. May support 
opportunities for passive recreation 
through recreational trails, 
educational signage, nature art, and 
nature play elements. Depending on 
site conditions, public access may be 
limited.
Natural land areas are 
designated to protect 
natural resources 
or environmentally 
sensitive areas. These 
areas are typically 
unsuitable for 
development but provide 
other potential benefits.
City or 
regional 
draw
Varies. May include access 
to the greenway and trail 
system. May support off-
street parking.
Greenway Corridor
Varies Greenway corridors are areas with 
direct access to the greenway trail 
system. May provide space for park-
like recreation and place-making 
such as public art, and interpretive 
signage.
Greenways corridors are 
typically maintained as 
open space.
Not 
applicable
Located adjacent to the 
greenway trail system 
that provides multi-modal 
recreational opportunities 
for commuters and 
recreational users.
Undeveloped
Varies Dedicated park space that will be 
reclassified as planning evolves. 
Varies. Properties 
may include natural 
or maintained areas. 
Undeveloped properties 
will be reclassified as 
their planning evolves.
Community 
wide
Table 5: Parkland Classifications and Standards
INVENTORY
CLASSIFICATION STANDARDS
35  |  INTRODUCTION     INTRODUCTION  |  36
INVENTORY
SPORTS COMPLEXES
The Programs & Facilities Division is essential 
in managing the City’s outdoor facilities, which 
include a variety of venues such as sports fields 
and complexes. Sports fields are typically outdoor 
spaces dedicated to specific activities like baseball, 
softball, and soccer, while sports complexes are 
larger facilities that often include multiple fields 
and support organized sports, tournaments, and 
community events. 
Cheyenne is home to eight sports complexes 
significantly contributing to the city's vibrant 
sports culture (Table 6). The Ice & Events Center 
is included as a sports complex offering a unique 
blend of both indoor and outdoor recreational 
activities. The location of the sports complexes, 
along with other outdoor field facilities, is 
illustrated in Figure 8.
SPORTS COMPLEXES ACRES
Brimmer Park 33.64
Converse Softball Complex 18.97
Dutcher Field 30.06
Ice & Events Center 13.19
Junior League Complex 30.28
Pioneer Park 12.67
Powers Field 23.03
VFW Pride Park 7.14
Powers Field
Brimmer Park
Table 6: Cheyenne Sports Complexes
Figure 8: Sports Complexes and Sports Fields
LEGEND
Outdoor Sports 
Fields
Cheyenne Parks
Sports Complex
The Parks Division is specifically tasked with 
maintaining fields designated for softball, baseball, 
and soccer. In addition to this, the Recreation 
Division administers a wide range of sports, 
classes, and specialty activities, ensuring a 
comprehensive recreational experience for the 
community.
37  |  INTRODUCTION     INTRODUCTION  |  38
INVENTORY
CHEYENNE BOTANIC GARDENS 
The Cheyenne Botanic Gardens is part of the 
Recreation and Events Department and is also 
associated with Friends, a non-profit foundation. 
The Botanic Gardens provides free admission to 
its facilities, which include the Conservatory, the 
Paul Smith Children’s Village, and the gardens. 
Additionally, they offer various activities and art 
workshops, including cultural events.
CHEYENNE AQUATICS CENTER
The Cheyenne Aquatic Center is an indoor facility 
that offers membership, daily admission, and 
various programs. It includes a lazy river, lap 
pool, diving well with 1m and 3m diving boards, 
water slides, a rock-climbing wall, and basketball 
hoops. Originally known as the Municipal Pool, it 
was renovated and expanded in 2015.
ICE & EVENTS CENTER
The Ice & Events Center opened in 2000, offers 
a variety of activities such as miniature golf, 
bumper cars, laser tag, ice skating and roller 
skating. It also provides programs like curling, 
hockey, and skating. Additionally, the facility has 
a 17,000 sq. ft. arena for concerts, trade shows, 
sporting events, and wedding receptions.
YOUTH ACTIVITY AND COMMUNITY CENTER 
David R. Romero Community Park has an indoor 
Youth Activity Center (YAC) that offers youth 
events, programs, activities, and birthdays. The 
youth activity center also provides an indoor 
pickleball court, meeting room, kitchen, and gym 
with two portable basketball goals.
CHEYENNE CIVIC CENTER 
The Cheyenne Civic Center is a performing arts 
facility built in 1981 in downtown Cheyenne. 
It can accommodate approximately 1,500 
people and hosts a variety of events, including 
performances by the Cheyenne Symphony 
Orchestra, concerts, Broadway productions, 
comedy shows, and ballets.
KIWANIS COMMUNITY HOUSE 
The Kiwanis Community House, built in 2003, is 
a rental facility accepting program registration. 
It includes a 3,800-square-foot room that can be 
divided into two spaces and a kitchen.
BEAST FOUNDATION
The Beast Foundation building is a 
28,000-square-foot multi-purpose facility with 
basketball, pickleball, and volleyball courts, as 
well as classroom and meeting room space. The 
City took ownership of the facility in spring 2024.
INDOOR COMMUNITY FACILITIES AND 
EVENT CENTERS
In addition to the outdoor facilities and sports 
complexes, the City owns/manages several indoor 
community facilities (Figure 9). These include 
seven event centers, including the newly acquired 
Beast Foundation, and four indoor community 
centers. The City is finishing construction on a 
new gymnastics facility in 2025. The Programs & 
Facilities Division ensures that these spaces are 
well-maintained and accessible to everyone.
The Beast
Botanic Gardens
Figure 9: Indoor Recreation Facilities
LEGEND
Aquatic Facility
Cheyenne Parks
Indoor Community 
Facility and Event 
Center

39  |  INTRODUCTION     INTRODUCTION  |  40
RELEVANT PLAN SUMMARY
The successful implementation of the Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Plan update depends on how 
well it aligns with other planning efforts in the City of Cheyenne. Several past and recent planning 
documents were reviewed as part of the plan update to identify areas of collaboration and find existing 
recommendations that impact Cheyenne’s park and recreation system, directly or indirectly. Below is a 
brief summary of the content of these documents.
PLANCHEYENNE: CHEYENNE PARKS AND RECREATION MASTER PLAN 2006
The most recent Parks and Recreation (P&R) master plan for the City was completed 
in 2006 as part of the PlanCheyenne process. It identified six types of organizational 
resources: parkland, visual green spaces, open space, cemeteries, golf courses, and 
recreational facilities. The plan was developed to address projected city growth. 
It included recommendations such as creating a legacy of parks and open space, 
expanding proposed and current parks and recreational facilities, and developing 
adequate land acquisition tools and funding sources.
PLANCHEYENNE: CHEYENNE AREA MASTER PLAN – COMMUNITY PLAN 
(2006, 2014)
PlanCheyenne was an integrated community master plan that combined the city and 
county to define the area’s future. The plan included the Community Plan, Parks and 
Recreation Master Plan, and Transportation Plan, focusing on seven key foundations 
for development.
PLANCHEYENNE: CHEYENNE AREA MASTER PLAN – TRANSPORTATION 
PLAN (2006, 2014, 2019)
The Transportation Master Plan emphasized strategies for improving bicycling and 
pedestrian movement, including completing missing segments, addressing ongoing 
maintenance for facilities, and adopting standards for new development. The 2014 
plan is a major update of the 2006 plans, focusing on the Community Plan and 
Transportation Plan. It emphasizes serving families and a diverse population and 
includes revisions to future land use and transportation networks. In 2019, the 
Transportation Plan was amended for a 5-year window to qualify for Federal and 
State funds. The 2020 “Connect 2045 Long-Range Transportation Plan” provides a 
25-year outlook for the region’s transportation strategy.
CHEYENNE TOURISM MASTER PLAN (2021)
The Cheyenne Tourism Master Plan is a 10-year vision for managing and 
understanding future tourism in the city. It includes promoting more winter events, 
improving gateways, incorporating railroad attractions, supporting sports facilities 
and additional attractions, expanding outdoor recreation options, and implementing 
a multi-year action plan for recreation at the Big Hole / Belvoir Ranch.
CHEYENNE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE (2023)
The Unified Development Code (UDC) outlines the guidelines and criteria for Open 
Space Systems across the city. It mandates that plat applications designate certain 
areas of land as non-buildable to be used for public or civic purposes. The UDC was 
adopted in 2012 and has had several amendments since then.
CHEYENNE GREENWAY PLAN (1992); GREATER CHEYENNE GREENWAY 
AUDIT REPORT (2019)
The Cheyenne Greenway Plan was developed in 1992 to expand Crow Creek 
into a community-wide greenway system. It included four off-street corridors: 
Dry Creek, Crow Creek, Allison Draw, and an abandoned railroad bed south of 
Nationway. The 2019 Cheyenne Greenway Audit Report outlined current issues and 
suggested improvements, including signage, safety, lighting, drainage, and design 
enhancements.
MARKET & FEASIBILITY STUDY: PROPOSED SPORTS COMPLEX (2023)
Cheyenne LEADS engaged HVS Convention, Sports & Entertainment Facilities 
Consulting (“HVS”) to conduct a Market and Feasibility Study for a potential sports 
complex in Cheyenne in 2023. The plan recommends an indoor sports facility with 
hardwood courts for basketball, futsal, and volleyball and an adjacent turf field for 
soccer and baseball, among other sports.
WEST DOWNTOWN URBAN RENEWAL PLAN (2023)
The 2023 West Downtown Urban Renewal Plan identifies blighted areas downtown 
and proposes urban renewal activities. It includes redevelopment through uses like 
a Children’s Museum and Downtown Hotel, as well as restoring historic structures, 
remediating environmental contamination, facilitating economic development, and 
improving streets and sidewalks.
CHEYENNE’S HISTORIC WEST EDGE REIMAGINED (2016)
The plan aims to enhance the vitality and livability of the Lower Capital Drainage 
Basin and the West Edge of Downtown Cheyenne. It includes creating new public 
amenities and parks, improving public safety, strengthening community identity, 
enhancing environmental quality, increasing tax revenue and new businesses, 
providing more housing and workplace options, enhancing pedestrian and bicycle 
connectivity, and fostering greater collaboration among partner agencies.
Lions Park
41  |  INTRODUCTION     INTRODUCTION  |  42
ALIGNMENT WITH RELEVANT PLANS
COMMON PLAN TAKEAWAYS
Themes that are most common between all of 
reviewed plans are:
 » Economic Development
 » Natural Systems
 » Culture and History
 » Connectivity and Access
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Many of the plans highlight the importance of 
economic development in the City of Cheyenne, 
specifically balancing tourism, fostering a sense 
of place, and retaining youth and teenagers 
within the community. Several plans focus on 
parks and recreation amenities and programming 
for residents and visitors to help boost local 
economies.
NATURAL SYSTEMS
Numerous plans emphasize the importance of 
preserving and safeguarding Cheyenne’s natural 
areas, green spaces, and parklands. This includes 
the maintenance and management of these 
systems and the mitigation of climate risks. 
For example, there is a focus on conserving the 
shortgrass prairie ecosystems.
HISTORY AND SENSE OF PLACE
Multiple plans focus on celebrating Cheyenne’s 
local history, promoting current cultural events 
and attractions such as the rodeo, railroads, 
western-themed museums, and the Historic 
District while also emphasizing community 
identity.
CONNECTIVITY AND ACCESS
The Greater Cheyenne Greenway is a system in 
Cheyenne that connects residents and visitors, 
providing access to parks and the city. Several 
plans include goals and objectives to increase 
accessibility by walking, biking, and commuting.
Kiwanis Park
 Optimist Park
    44
COMMUNITY 
INPUT AND 
VALUES
 » Engagement Summary
 » Focus Groups
 » Community Survey
 » Community Workshop
2
45  |  Community Input And Values     Community Input And Values  |  46
ENGAGEMENT PURPOSE
This plan is shaped by understanding community 
member's needs and values, with multiple 
opportunities for the public and stakeholders to 
provide input in plan creation. This input guides 
Cheyenne’s strategic planning and investment 
decisions over the next decade, ensuring that the 
City’s recreational infrastructure continues to 
meet the evolving needs of its residents, with a 
significant portion of the community expressing 
willingness to support additional funding.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT PROCESS
Community input was gathered using various 
methods to understand the needs and desires of 
the community. Engagement methods included 
focus group and City Council discussions, steering 
committee discussions, workshops for both 
community members and city staff, an online 
community survey, an online draft plan review 
questionnaire, and mapping exercises.
The City implemented various outreach efforts, 
including a dedicated project website offering 
ongoing updates, resources, and key milestones 
throughout the process, several press releases to 
announce the online surveys and public meetings, 
and invitations to key stakeholders to participate 
in focus group discussions. During the entirety of 
the planning process, the City has remained deeply 
involved and committed to active engagement and 
understanding the community’s desires for this 
plan.
City Department 
Discussions
Focus Group Meetings
Online Community 
Survey
Community Workshop 
Open House, Pop-up 
Events
Steering Committee and 
City Council Meetings
Focus Groups
 Focus Groups
Community Workshop
Mapping Exercise
Community Workshop
Community Workshop
ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY
Fall 2023 Spring 2024 Summer 2024 Winter 2024/2025
ONLINE COMMUNITY SURVEY
STEERING COMMITTEE MEETING
FOCUS GROUP MEETINGS
 COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
COMMUNITY QUESTIONNAIRE
STEERING COMMITTEE MEETING
STEERING COMMITTEE MEETING
PUBLIC DRAFT REVIEW
COUNCIL WORK SESSION
ESTABLISH A 
FOUNDATION OF 
UNDERSTANDING
CREATE A 
SHARED VISION
FINAL 
VISION PLAN
Figure 10: Engagement Timeline
47  |  Community Input And Values     Community Input And Values  |  48
FOCUS GROUP INPUT HIGHLIGHTS
FOCUS GROUPS
FOCUS GROUP SUMMARY
The City of Cheyenne, in collaboration with 
Design Workshop and Ballard*King, organized a 
series of six focus group sessions from November 
13 to November 14, 2023. The primary aim of 
these sessions was to delve into the specific 
needs of the City’s park system. The overarching 
objectives were to kick-start the project by 
gaining comprehensive insights into the diverse 
interests of the community, understanding their 
concerns, identifying opportunities, values, and 
needs, and collecting input about what currently 
works well, where improvements can be made, and 
potential strategies for enhancement. A diverse 
group of over 50 people participated, including 
subject matter experts, key stakeholders, City of 
Cheyenne staff, and community members.
The focus group meetings were topically organized 
around the six discussion areas below:
FOCUS GROUP TOPIC DISCUSSIONS
1. Adult Athletics and Activities
2. City Youth Athletic Programs
3. Community Growth and Tourism
4. Operations and Maintenance
5. Special Populations and Program Providers
6. Greenways and Trails / Open Space and 
Natural Resources
Focus Groups
There is a strong desire for indoor recreation 
opportunities due to year-round weather constraints.
There is a high demand for amenities like sports 
courts, fields, and ice rinks.
There is a need to improve connections and expand 
offerings on the south side.
There are differing perceptions of the role of 
manicured lawn and natural areas.
The Greenway is an exceptional asset to the city.
There is a need for clear policies and standards for 
new open spaces, particularly for developers.
There are opportunities for placemaking and art in 
parks and along the Greenway.
There is a need for additional maintenance and 
renovation funds.
There is a desire to prioritize quality over quantity  
when making decisions about new park facilities and 
maintenance.
Focus Groups
Focus Groups
49  |  Community Input And Values     Community Input And Values  |  50
Respondents were from... How often do you visit Cheyenne’s parks 
or recreation facilities?
WHO WE HEARD FROM
 » 710 total Survey Respondents
 » 73% of respondents indicated they 
live in the City of Cheyenne.
 » 59% of respondents indicated they 
are between the age of 30 and 54.
WHAT WE WE HEARD
Top 5 responses for very and extremely 
important purposes.
 » 88% of respondents indicated places 
for all to play
 » 83% of respondents indicated health 
and fitness
 » 79% of respondents indicated spend 
time outdoors and connect with 
nature
 » 77% of respondents indicated 
enhancing economic vitality
 » 77% of respondents indicated 
protecting natural environments
VISION FOR THE FUTURE
 » Provide places and programs for 
people to maintain and improve their 
health and fitness
 » Provide places for all to play
 » Protect natural environments
 » Build additional indoor recreation/
community facilities
NEED MORE OF...
 » Indoor recreation spaces
 » Outdoor education and nature 
exploration programming
 » Diverse programming for teens, 
people with low household income, 
and people with special needs
 » Outdoor swimming/spray water play 
and restroom facilities
COMMUNITY SURVEY
SURVEY SUMMARY
The Master Plan survey is the primary tool for 
engaging the broadness of the community in 
understanding their needs and desires for parks 
and recreation. The survey was advertised through 
all of the City and partner's channels to invite 
participation between April 8 and May 14, 2024.
The survey response rate exceeded goals for 
statistical relevance with 710 completed surveys, 
resulting in a margin of error of 4%. Demographic 
question responses show representation is 
similar to the city's makeup of age, income, 
race/ethnicity, length of tenure, and included 
appropriate representation from park users that 
live outside the City of Cheyenne. Participants also 
included those who indicated they rarely or never 
visit Cheyenne's parks or recreation facilities. 
While typical to a survey, only 3% of respondents 
indicated they are below the age of 24. However, 
239 respondents indicated they have youth under 
the age of 19 living in their household.
Community Survey Community Survey
Community Survey
COMMUNITY SURVEY
73%
City of Cheyenne
3%
Did not 
indicate
24%
Laramie County
VISITATION FREQUENCY
 » 68% of respondents visit 
Cheyenne’s park and recreation 
facilities at least once a week.
FUNDING
 » 82% of respondents indicated 
they would be extremely willing 
or somewhat likely to support 
additional funding and spending for 
parks and recreation improvements 
in the future.
MAINTENANCE
 » 61% of respondents indicated the 
overall park daily maintenance is 
good or excellent.
 » 42% of respondents indicated 
that community centers and indoor 
recreation have a poor or average 
condition.
BARRIERS
 » 60% of respondents identified 
seasonal weather constraints as the 
most common reason preventing the 
use of parks and recreation facilities.
 » 22% of respondents selected 
that facilities are often booked or 
overcrowded.
Daily
Several days a week
Once a week
Several times a month
Once a month
A few times a year
Never
16%
40%
12%
15%
5%
10%
1%
Provide places for all to play 9% 39% 49%
Provide places and programs for people 
to maintain and improve their health 
and fitness
11% 38% 45%
Opportunities to spend time outdoors 
and connect with nature 16% 35% 44%
Enhance economic vitality by making 
Cheyenne more attractive to live, work, 
and do business
5% 15% 33% 44%
Provide spaces and programs for sports 
team play and skill development 6% 34%18% 40%
Provide trails and pathways for 
improved exercise and connectivity 3% 17% 37% 39%
Contribute to a more beautiful 
community 15%4% 41% 38%
Recreation and programs for lower 
income community members 7% 20% 32% 35%
Attract visitors and/or promote tourism 8% 24% 28% 32%
Provide trails for alternative 
transportation 7% 25% 32% 31%
Provide places, programs, and community 
events for people to socialize and 
experience arts and culture
23%5% 39% 30%
Promote appreciation and preservation 
of culture and heritage 10% 29% 35% 21%
Protect natural environments, water 
resources, and wildlife, and provide 
environmental resiliency
32% 45%4% 15%
Slightly 
important
Not at all 
important
Moderately 
important
Very 
important
Extremely 
important
Please rate how important you think each 
of these purposes is for Cheyenne.
51  |  Community Input And Values     Community Input And Values  |  52
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP SUMMARY
A community workshop took place in Cheyenne on 
June 3, 2024. Forty-one local and nearby residents 
attended and participated in the workshop. 
Engagement activities included:
MAPPING OPPORTUNITY AREAS WITH 
STICKERS
The community workshop conducted a mapping 
exercise where participants were asked to provide 
their input and ideas. Figure 11 is a map composite 
of all collected input, which informs the final vision 
plan. Below is some of the feedback from the 
mapping exercise:
 » Improving access to parks for ADA accessibility.
 » Restrooms at Lions Park, Dry Creek Parkway, 
Lions Park, Brimmer Park, Mylar Park, Holliday 
Park and Western Hills Park.
 » Bike ramp tracks, skills trails, and dirt jumps at 
North Cheyenne Community Park.
 » More natural elements, tree planting, and open 
space in parks.
 » Recreation center to serve the south and west 
sides of Cheyenne.
 » Safety and maintenance concerns at Holliday 
Park, Dutcher Field, and MLK Jr. Park.
 » Amenities like disc golf, volleyball, and 
skateboarding.
 » Swings, rubber mats, and wood chips in parks.
LIVE POLLING
Participants shared views on Cheyenne’s 
recreational offerings responding to multiple 
choice questions. They were asked about their 
desired recreational activities, concerns about the 
parks and recreation system, and suggestions for 
future investments. These responses provided a 
deeper look into community member preferences 
building off the community survey responses.
INTERACTIVE WORKSHOP EXERCISES
Community Workshop
WORKSHOP FEEDBACK
 » Increase amenities in parks, like 
seating, restrooms, shaded play areas, 
and play equipment. 
 » Additional outdoor activities such 
as walking paths, sports courts, 
skateboarding, bike tracks, and disc 
golf.
 » Desire for a dedicated recreation 
center, an indoor track, soccer, and 
baseball/softball facilities.
 » Expressed that the greenway is a 
top asset. Desire to expand biking/
walking areas, add pet stations, and 
connect High Plains Arboretum and 
Belvoir Ranch.
LIVE POLLING
 » Most respondents indicated an indoor 
running/biking track is needed, 
followed by a gymnasium with 
multiple sports courts
Focus on parks and recreation in the 
next 10 years...
 » 21% of respondents indicated 
they would like to add an indoor 
recreation/community center
 » 18% of respondents selected 
they would like to enhance the 
environment and protect nature
POP-UP EVENT
At the Super Day event, the City of Cheyenne 
engaged with participants by distributing 
informative flyers and organizing an interactive 
sticker map exercise. This interactive activity 
encouraged participants to mark their favorite 
spots and provide feedback on what amenities 
they would like to see in Cheyenne’s Park System 
and where.
CITY DEPARTMENT DISCUSSIONS AND 
STEERING COMMITTEE MEETINGS
The City of Cheyenne and the Design Workshop 
team collaborated with the Steering Committee 
and City Council throughout the plan creation. This 
collaboration provided a platform to share insights, 
address community needs, and align priorities 
among various stakeholders.
Live Polling Results
Figure 11: Mapping Exercise Summary
Top three priorities to focus on in parks 
and recreation in the next 10 years?
Add Indoor Recreation/
Community Center
Complete undeveloped 
parks and acquire 
properties for open space 
and future parks
Add more community events 
and group activities
Other
 Fill gaps and increase access 
to parks within walking 
distance of homes
Direct improvements and 
programs to equity areas 
of the city
Create more health, 
recreation, and sports 
opportunities
Enhance our environment 
and protect nature
Add significant outdoor 
features like pools, splash 
pads, tournament space etc
Improve the condition and 
design of existing parks 
and facilities

    54
PARK SYSTEM 
EVALUATION
 » Community Profile
 » Recreation Trends
 » Level of Service Assessment
 » Walkshed Analysis
 » Park Operations Assessment
 » Community Facility Fees and Contributions
 » Facilities Assessment
 » Recreation Programs and Services Assessment
 » Equity Priority Mapping
3
55  |  PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION     PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION  |  56
COMMUNITY PROFILE
POPULATION & GROWTH PROJECTIONS
The City of Cheyenne and the surrounding service 
area, defined by the Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO) Boundary, are home 
to about 90,045 people (Table 7). This makes 
up 88% of the Laramie County population. The 
2023 population within the Cheyenne City Limits 
is 66,208. The city experienced relatively high 
growth from 2010 to 2020, but it’s expected to 
slow down over the next five years, with a growth 
rate of about 0.28% per year according to Esri 
demographics data.
Most of the population density is centered within 
the Cheyenne city limits, with the highest density 
east of downtown and south of Cheyenne Regional 
Airport, primarily due to higher-density housing in 
the downtown area.
Many people in Cheyenne own their own homes, 
with 64.3% owner-occupied, 29.5% rented, and 
6.2% vacant. The number of people owning homes 
has increased from 2010 to 2023 and is expected 
to grow slightly by 2028 (56.4%). In line with 
the expected growth rate, the projected annual 
increase in the number of households (0.64%) is 
expected to rise by less than one percent, similar 
to the state trends.
The average household size in the Cheyenne 
service area in 2023 is 2.33 individuals. Most of the 
population consists of adults, with a median age of 
38.7. The age groups 25-44 and 55-54 make up the 
largest percentage of the population, accounting 
for almost 40% (Figure 12). There is a relatively low 
number of residents under 15 and over 75. With 
nearly a quarter of the population aged over 55, 
the demographic of older residents is expected to 
increase in the near future.
85+
75-84
65-74
55-64
45-54
35-44
25-34
15-24
10-14
5-9
0-4
1.8%
5.3%
11%
12.9%
11.2%
12.8%
13.8%
12%
6.4%
6.4%
6.4%
Figure 12: Age Distribution in Cheyenne MPO, 2023
Figure 13: Racial Distribution, 2023
78.7%17%
11.1%
4.9%
0.2%
2.6%
1.2%
1.4%
White
Hispanic Origin
Black/African American
American Indian/
Alaskan Native
Asian
Native Hawaiian/Other 
Pacific Islander
Some other Race/
Ethnicity
Multi-racial/Multi-ethnic
Total 
Population 
(2010)
Total 
Population 
(2023)
Population 
Density 2023 
(per Sq Mi)
Cheyenne 
Service Area
81,489 90,405 425.1
Laramie 
County
91,738 102,453 38.1
Wyoming 563,626 578,766 6.0
Cheyenne 
Service Area
Wyoming
Less than $15,000 8.9% 9.60%
$15,000 - $24,999 8.8% 7.90%
$25,000 - $34,999 10.3% 8.70%
$35,000 - $49,999 13.1% 10.80%
$50,000 - $74,999 17.8% 18.20%
$75,000 - $99,999 13.1% 14.70%
$100,000 - $149,999 18.4% 16.50%
$150,000 - $199,999 5.9% 7.40%
$200,000 or greater 3.6% 6.20%
Average Household 
Income
$81,183 $90,928
Table 7: Population Trends, 2010-2028
Table 8: Income Distribution, 2023
HOUSEHOLD INCOME & WORKFORCE 
TRENDS
The median household income in the Cheyenne 
service area is $59,994, which is lower than the 
average for the county ($61,858) and the state 
($65,783). Over the next five years, household 
incomes are expected to go up, reaching around 
$65,745 by 2028. Based on the income distribution, 
72% of people in the area make less than $100,000, 
and 28% make less than $35,000 (Table 8).
In the Cheyenne service area, most residents over 
25 have obtained at least a high school education, 
with 31.4% holding a Bachelor’s or Graduate/
Professional degree, which is slightly higher than 
the state average.
The Cheyenne Service Area has a low 
unemployment rate of 2.0%, which aligns with the 
state of Wyoming’s rate of 2.7%. Almost half of the 
population, specifically 43.2%, is employed in the 
service industry. Additionally, significant numbers 
work in retail trade (16.1%), public administration 
(12.4%), transportation/utilities (8.2%), and 
construction (7.2%). F.E. Warren Air Force Base and 
the State Capitol also serve as economic drivers, 
contributing to Cheyenne's workforce trends.
RACIAL DISTRIBUTION & DIVERSITY 
INDEX
The majority of people in the Cheyenne area in 
2023 are white, making up 78.7% of the population. 
Seventeen percent (17%) of residents identify 
as Hispanic origin, followed by Black or African 
American (2.6%), Asian (1.4%), American Indian/
Alaskan Native (1.2%), and Native Hawaiian/Other 
Pacific Islander below 1%. Other residents identify 
as belonging to multiple races or ethnicities (11.1%) 
or identify as other racial or ethnic groups (4.9%).
The Esri Diversity Index measures race and 
ethnicity diversity on a scale from 0 to 100, with 
100 indicating complete diversity. The Cheyenne 
service area’s Diversity Index for 2023 is 54.4, 
higher than the state’s 41.8. Projections show 
Cheyenne reaching 55.9 diversity by 2028.
COMMUNITY AT A GLANCE
38.7
Median Age
2.33
Median Household 
Size
54.4
Diversity Index
2%
Unemployment 
Rate
64.3%
Homeownership 
Source: Esri Business Analyst 2023
Source: Esri Business Analyst
Source: Esri Business Analyst
Source: Esri Business Analyst
Source: Esri Business Analyst
78.9% Not Living a Healthy 
Lifestyle (Laramie County 2017-2021)
Laramie County adults reporting smoking, no leisure 
time activity, or not being at a healthy weight.
Source: Wyoming Department of Health 2017-2021 County Data
COMMUNITY HEALTH
According to the Wyoming Department of 
Health's 2017-2021 County Data, 65.7% of the 
adult population in Laramie County is considered 
overweight or obese. Approximately 23.4% of 
adults reported that they do not engage in any 
physical activities or exercises, such as running, 
calisthenics, golf, gardening, or walking for 
exercise outside of their regular jobs. A large 
portion of the population (78.9%) reported not 
leading a healthy lifestyle, which includes adults 
who smoke, do not engage in leisure activities, or 
are not at a healthy weight.
COMMUNITY AT A GLANCE
57  |  PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION     PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION  |  58
ACTIVITY KEY FINDINGS
 » The activities with significantly higher 
percentage participation than the 
U.S. population are golf, canoeing/
kayaking, bicycling (mountain), 
backpacking, yoga, swimming, fishing 
and frisbee.
 » None of the participation in activities 
is radically lower than the U.S. 
averages, with only soccer (87 MPI), 
horseback riding (87 MPI), and softball 
(86 MPI) below 95% MPI.
 » 10.6% of residents of Cheyenne spend 
$250+ on sports and recreational 
equipment annually, with a market 
potential index of 103 (higher than 
the U.S. average).
 » Cheyenne residents spend the most 
on membership fees for social/
recreational/health clubs ($210.08), 
followed by fees for recreational 
lessons ($105.05) for outdoor 
recreation.
RECREATION TRENDS
Data sources for national, state, and local 
recreation trends provide insight into larger 
trends. Appendix A provides additional recreation 
trends data that informs this outlook.
RECREATION ACTIVITIES
Table 9 compares outdoor activity trends from 
Business Analyst’s Sports and Leisure Market 
Potential with the likelihood of adult residents 
in Cheyenne participating in these activities 
compared to the national average. The report’s 
Market Potential Index (MPI) reflects the likelihood 
of adults participating in activities, using a national 
average of 100. When a community's participation 
number falls below the national average, it often 
indicates a lack of available facilities or programs 
or an inability to afford these services. A higher 
MPI suggests greater opportunities to provide 
those programs, activities, and facilities.
The activities are defined by four categories: 
General Sports, Fitness, Outdoor Activity and 
Money Spent on Recreation.
 » General Sports with the most adult participation 
are golf, basketball, and tennis.
 » Fitness activities with the most adult 
participants are walking for exercise, 
weightlifting, and jogging/running.
 » Outdoor activities with the most adult 
participants are barbecuing, hiking, and 
swimming.
PRODUCT/CONSUMER 
BEHAVIOR
EXPECTED NUMBER OF 
ADULTS
PERCENT OF 
POPULATION
MARKET POTENTIAL 
INDEX (MPI)
Walking for Exercise 18,026 35% 103
Barbecuing 16,945 32.9% 103
Hiking 10,036 19.5% 103
Swimming 8,151 15.8% 105
Overnight Camping 7,235 14% 104
Weightlifting 7,192 14% 99
Bicycling (Road) 6,132 11.9% 99
Jogging/Running 6,000 11.6% 106
Yoga 5,958 11.6% 106
Fishing (fresh water) 5,710 11.1% 105
Source: Business Analyst, Sports and Leisure Market Potential, Esri Forecast 2024
Table 9: Top activities by number of participants in Cheyenne, 2024
RECREATION ON A REGIONAL SCALE
Wyoming is home to popular outdoor destinations 
like Yellowstone National Park, Grand Teton 
National Park, Medicine Bow National Forest, 
and Jackson Hole. It offers diverse landscapes, 
including forests, prairies, deserts, mountains, 
rivers, and hot springs, making it a key outdoor 
recreation hub.
Based on the 2024-2028 Statewide Comprehensive 
Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) online 
community survey, 75% reported increased 
outdoor recreation demand in Wyoming over the 
past 5 years, with 64% noting increased demand 
from their organization.
In local communities, hiking and walking were 
popular activities, while water sports like rafting, 
swimming, paddling, canoeing, and boating 
were favored by visitors and travelers. Hiking, 
backpacking, and trail running were also prevalent, 
aligning with local trends.
The preferences of full-time residents prioritize 
accessibility, bike trails, and water sports. Visitors 
showed a slightly greater preference for RV 
camping sites, although all groups showed strong 
overall interest.
Cahill Park
Greater Cheyenne Greenway
Greater Cheyenne Greenway
59  |  PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION     PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION  |  60
LEVEL OF SERVICE ASSESSMENT
Level of Service (LOS) standards for parks and 
recreation measure the ability to meet the 
current population's needs and plan for future 
population growth. One way to determine if more 
park space is needed is to analyze the number of 
acres of parkland per 1,000 residents. This LOS 
offers a land requirement guideline for parks, 
recreation areas, and facilities. The purpose 
of measuring LOS acreage per population is to 
monitor a community’s availability of developable 
and publicly accessible parkland and consider the 
implications of population growth on its capacity.
633 acres of Cheyenne's parks are identified as 
developed for recreation purposes. This includes 
five Community parks, 11 Neighborhood parks, 
seven Mini parks, and 8 Sports Complexes. This 
equates to 6.9 acres of developed parks per 1,000 
people. Over the next five years the City will 
need to add nine acres of developed parkland to 
provide the same level of service per population 
(projected to grow by over 1,000 people in five 
years). The City has nearly 43 acres of undeveloped 
park properties, some of which are appropriate to 
improve for public recreation and in locations in 
need of parks.
PARK SYSTEM TOTALS
Park Category Acres Number of 
Properties
Acres per 1000 people 
2023 Service level 
(Population 90,045)
Acres per 1000 people 
2028 Service level 
(Population 91,675)
Acres needed to meet 
current level of service 
standards in 2028
Community 355.69 5 3.9 3.88 5
Neighborhood 99.52 11 1.1 1.09 1
Mini 8.48 7 0.09 0.09 0
Sports Complex 168.98 8 1.87 1.84 2
Total Developed Parks 633 31 7.00 6.90 9
Open Space 266.40 6 2.95 2.91 4
Greenway Corridor 145.46 21 1.61 1.59 2
Total Natural Lands 412 27 4.56 4.49 6
Total 1,045 58 11.56 11.39 15
Undeveloped/Planned 42.88 3 0.47 0.47 1
Table 10: Park Acres Level of Service, 2023
61 PROPERTIES
Parks and Open spaces
(includes greenways, open space and 
undeveloped properties)
1,087 ACRES
Parks and Open spaces
Cheyenne has more parks per resident 
than the National Average.
Cheyenne is slightly more park and open 
space acres per 1,000 residents than the 
median of similar size communities 
National Average
Top 25%
Median
Bottom 
25%
 CHEYENNE
12 
Acres of parks and open 
space per 1000 residents
The above figures compare Cheyenne's park acres 
and number of properties to national averages 
for cities with similar sized populations. This finds 
that Cheyenne is slightly above or near the median 
of park and open space provision by other similar 
sized cities.
Developed 
Parks
Undeveloped/
Planned ParksOpen Space 
& Greenways
Figure 14: Current Percentage Parkland Acres
58%
38%
4%
KEY FINDINGS
 » Total park and open space acres per 
1,000 population (2023) = 12 acres
 » Total developed park acres per 1,000 
population (2023) = 6.9 acres.
 » 9 additional acres of developed 
parkland needed by 2028 to meet 
current LOS.
 » Cheyenne's number of park and open 
space properties and acreage per 
population is similar to the national 
average. However, much of Cheyenne's 
acreage is unimproved open space and 
Cheyenne should focus on the overall 
quality and diversity of recreation 
offerings and ecological value of lands 
to compete with peer cities.
* National Recreation and Park Association 2024 Agency 
Performance Report for Agencies with Populations 
between 50,000 to 99,999 residents. Parkland includes 
maintained parks and accessible open space.
National Average
Top 25%
Median
Bottom 
25%
 CHEYENNE
1,482 
Residents per park or open 
space property
1,489
2,346
4,048
Lions Park
61  |  PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION     PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION  |  62
WALKSHED ANALYSIS
WALKSHED OVERVIEW
A walkshed analysis helps evaluate the 
accessibility of the current park system and 
measures the walking distance between 
residential addresses and publicly accessible park 
and recreation properties. This type of analysis 
determines the time it takes to walk from home to 
a park or trail using sidewalks or paths to reveal 
residences that are and are not within a half-mile 
walking distance.
In the Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
survey, most respondents indicated they would 
walk or bike to a park, playground, greenway/
trail, or recreation facility. 67% of respondents 
indicated they are willing to walk one mile or less 
to a recreation facility.
PARK WALKSHED PARAMETERS
The Park Walkshed Map (Figure 15) highlights the 
accessibility of publicly accessible parks within a 
half-mile (10-minute) walking distance of the City 
of Cheyenne. Park categories within the walkshed 
analysis include community parks, neighborhood 
parks, small parks, sports complexes, and open 
spaces. Categories not considered in the analysis 
are cemeteries, golf courses, storm detention 
areas, visual resources, undeveloped land, 
and greenway corridors. These properties are 
not included because they would need to offer 
recreational opportunities or public access. The 
walkshed analysis also considers access barriers 
like highways, roads, railroads, and waterways.
PARK WALKSHED FINDINGS
The analysis indicates that 83% of the population 
can access a park within a 10-minute or half-mile 
walking distance. However, nearly all of southern 
Cheyenne, south of Interstate 80, is not within a 
half-mile distance and has the largest service area 
gap within the city. The next largest gap includes 
several neighborhoods to the east, specifically to 
the east of 212. Other gaps include neighborhoods 
to the north, areas just west of Interstate 25, 
central Cheyenne just south of the airport, and 
parts of the historic district.
Lake, Pond, River, Stream
Half-Mile (10-Minute) Walking 
Distance to a Park
Event Center/Indoor 
Recreation Center
Greenway and Trails
County Park and Greenway
Federal Lands
Cheyenne City Limits
Cheyenne Parks
Figure 15: Park Walkshed Map
10 MINUTE WALKING DISTANCE TO A PARK
0 0.75 1.5 3 MI
KEY FINDINGS
 » 35% are willing to walk or bike a half-
mile or less. 
 
 » 83% of Cheyenne households are 
within a 10-minute walk from a 
publicly accessible park.
Community Survey
Lions Park
Classifications included in gap analysis: 
Community Park, Neighborhood Park, Mini Park, 
Sports Complex, Open Space
Classifications not included in gap analysis: 
Cemetery, Golf Course, Storm Detention Area, 
Undeveloped, Greenway Corridor
63  |  PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION     PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION  |  64
TRAIL WALKSHED
TRAIL WALKSHED PARAMETERS
A walkshed analysis for Cheyenne’s greenway 
and trail system measures the half-mile walking 
distances to each trail through trail access points, 
existing transportation, and pedestrian networks. 
The result of the trail accessibility analysis helps 
provide an understanding of areas well served by 
Cheyenne’s trail system. The Greater Cheyenne 
Greenway, city-owned trails, and trailheads are 
included in the walkshed. The walkshed analysis 
also considers access barriers such as highways, 
roads, railroads, and waterways.
TRAIL WALKSHED FINDINGS
The Greenway and Trails Walkshed Map (Figure 16) 
shows that most Cheyenne residents are within 
a half-mile of a greenway or trail access. Areas 
not within half a mile from a greenway or trail 
include northwestern areas in Cheyenne, south 
of the airport, east of Interstate 25, and several 
neighborhoods to the east. These gaps align with 
the park walkshed map. However, the accessibility 
of the trail and park systems varies significantly 
between the communities in the southern region. 
Note, the trail segment for the Greenway at 
Wilderness and Dixon in Saddle Ridge was not 
included in the original walkshed mapping, but it 
has since been completed.
Figure 16: Trail Walkshed Map
10 MINUTE WALKING DISTANCE TO A GREENWAY OR TRAIL
Greenway Signage
0 0.75 1.5 3 MI
Lake, Pond, River, Stream
Half-Mile (10-Minute) Walking 
Distance to a Greenway or Trail
Event Center/Indoor 
Recreation Center
Greenway and Trails
County Park and Greenway
Federal Lands
LEGEND
Cheyenne City Limits
Cheyenne Parks
KEY FINDING
 » 77% of Cheyenne residents are 
within a 10-minute walk from a 
greenway or trail
 » 58 miles of greenways and shared-
use trails
Greater Cheyenne Greenway
Included in trail gap analysis: Cheyenne 
Greenway and City-Owned Trails and Trailheads
65  |  PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION     PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION  |  66
PARK OPERATIONS ASSESSMENT
PARKS MAINTENANCE
The Parks Division is responsible for the upkeep 
and maintenance of a variety of spaces, including 
parks, athletic facilities, open spaces, detention 
areas, roadway enhancements, greenways, 
special-use path corridors, and visual green spaces. 
The following assessment of the Division identifies 
key challenges, staffing gaps and responsibility 
considerations.
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE & STAFFING
The Division has a manager, supervisor, foremen, 
and technicians. 30-35 seasonal employees 
supplement full-time staff. Seasonal staff joins in 
May and continues through August. A bulk of these 
are high school and college students. The Park 
Division staff provides day-to-day maintenance 
tasks, primarily mowing and picking up litter. The 
staff has increased in the past three years. With 
the addition and expansion of the trail system, 
additional staff will be required.
STAFFING LEVEL STANDARDS
Staffing in parks is complex due to the variety, 
approach, and expectations. As a result, a range 
of staffing levels has been developed as a general 
guide. Table 11 outlines full-time equivalent staffing 
levels for low and high scenarios across different 
park categories, sports complexes, and trails. The 
staffing levels vary based on the type of park, 
facility, and trail and their specific maintenance 
needs.  
Overall staffing ranges from 76.1 (low level) 
PARKS ACRES STAFFING 
LOW LEVEL
STAFFING 
HIGH LEVEL
Community 355.7 29.6 44.5
Neighborhood 99.5 8.3 12.4
Mini 8.5 0.7 1.1
Open Space 266.4 14.8 22.2
Greenway 
Corridor
145.5 8.1 12.1
Undeveloped 33.0 1.8 2.7
Total 908.5 63.4 95.0
TRAILS MILES STAFFING 
LOW LEVEL
STAFFING 
HIGH LEVEL
Greenway 46.9 2.3 4.7
Shared Use 
Trail
11.5 0.6 1.2
Total 58.4 2.9 5.8
Table 11: Staffing Level Standards, 2024
RESPONSIBILITIES ASSESSMENT
 » The Golf Division has two mechanics who 
maintain small motor equipment and assist 
other city departments. They service equipment 
for all CRE Divisions, including Parks, Forestry, 
Cemetery, Weed & Pest, and Botanic.
 » The Parks Division currently manages 
pavement maintenance and parking lot striping. 
Transferring these responsibilities to the 
Public Works department would align them 
with similar operational tasks and improve 
management efficiency.
 » The Parks Division is responsible for clearing 
snow from all parking lots and facilities in parks, 
while Public Works manages the street plowing.
 » Park Division does monthly inspections of 
playgrounds through ParkZapp but does not 
have a Certified Playground Safety Inspector 
(CPSI) on staff.
 » Maintenance staff is scheduled Monday-Friday 
with rotational on-call staff. A team is scheduled 
over the weekend.
 » Park maintenance is an organized function, not 
planned around geographical locations of the 
park. Tasks are assigned each day.
 » Most park maintenance functions are conducted 
by park staff rather than being contracted out.
 » The majority of the irrigation systems are 
centralized, allowing for efficient watering. The 
Parks Department does not pay for water.
CHALLENGES
 » "One size fits for all" approach for 
maintenance and operations for all 
parks or facilities
 » Varying safety surfaces under 
each play structures leading to 
inconsistency
 » Parks are mowed from curb-to-curb, 
with no dedicated space for native 
grasses and wildflowers
 » Inconsistency with types and brands 
of equipment used across all the 
parks
 » Current CIP budget inadequate for 
repair of ageing facilities
 » Lack of formal athletic field 
maintenance practices
 » Inadequate funding and staff to 
manage and maintain open spaces
 » Addition of trails and responsibilities 
to the department without provision 
of additional support
 » The Parks Division maintains 
infrastructure and facilities that 
should be under the scope of Public 
Works
AREAS OF OPERATIONS
 » Parks (non-athletic fields)
 » Athletics
 » Irrigation
 » Greenway
Lions Park
David R Romero Park
Sports 
Complex
# Of 
Fields Acres Staffing 
Low Level
Staffing 
High Level
Sports 
Complex
39 169.0 9.8 19.5
to 120.3 (high level), including parks, sports 
complexes, and trails.
Community parks and open spaces require the 
highest staffing allocation. Staffing for sports 
complexes depends on the number of fields 
rather than the total acreage, leading to different 
staffing calculations. In contrast, trail staffing 
is significantly lower compared to parks due to 
reduced maintenance requirements.
67  |  PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION     PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION  |  68
COMMUNITY FACILITY FEES AND CONTRIBUTIONS
CURRENT FUNDING SYSTEM
Funding the operation, development and 
maintenance of parks and recreation facilities and 
services remains a challenge for many cities across 
the country. In the last 10 years there has been 
less reliance on the general fund of most cities as 
the primary funding source. Cheyenne relies on 
the following sources to fund current parks and 
recreation services and capital projects.
 » General Fund (Taxes, Charges for Services and 
Misc.-Cemetery & Rentals)
 » Special Revenue Funds
 » Weed & Pest (Taxes)
 » Recreation (Charges for Services)
 » Capital Project Fund
 » Golf Facilities (Charges for Services)
 » Proprietary Funds
 » Civic Center (Charges for Services, Transfers- 
Ta xes)
 » Ice & Events Center (Charges for Services, 
Transfers-Taxes)
SERVICE CATEGORIES
Programs and facilities can be divided into 
categories based on the primary beneficiary. 
Typical ones include:
 » Community/Public: Services that enhance the 
health, safety and livability of the community 
and therefore require minimal obstacles to 
participation. Includes free play at playgrounds, 
use of open space, general administrative 
services, unscheduled outdoor courts and 
athletic fields. Cost of basic services and 
facilities shall be primarily funded by the general 
tax base.
 » Recreation/Basic/Special:  Services that benefit 
a broad range of users and are targeted to 
promote physical and mental well-being. This 
area includes fitness programs, summer camp, 
swim lessons, pool admission, instructional 
classes, and membership-based services. The 
user shall share in the cost of providing special 
services to offset tax dollar support.
 » Individual/Private: Services targeted to 
specific individuals or user groups with limited 
community benefit. Private services and 
facilities are beyond the scope of traditional 
parks and recreation services in which only 
the recipient of the service receives the direct 
benefit of the service. Private services include 
trips, facility rentals, athletic field permits, picnic 
shelter rentals, golf and private instruction.
COST RECOVERY GOALS
 » Community Services:  0% to 25% of all direct 
costs.
 » Public/Basic Services:  25% to 75% of all direct 
costs.
 » Special Services: 75% to 100% of all direct costs 
and 0% to 50% of identified indirect costs.
 » Private Services: 100% minimum of all direct 
costs.
NATIONAL FUNDING 
TRENDS
 » Current level of funding nationally is 
62% of operating expenditures being 
derived from the general fund. (2023 
NRPA Agency Performance Review 
study).
 » An average of 25.2% of operational 
costs were off set through fees 
and charges. (2023 NRPA Agency 
Performance Review study).
 » Establishing dedicated tax funding 
sources for on-going parks and 
recreation operations, also for capital 
projects.
 » Diversify capital funding to utilize 
local tax dollars, also broader funding 
through the state and federal 
government as well as fundraising 
and grant funding for larger projects.
36.8%
4.0%
59.2%
COMMON REPORTING STANDARD (CRS)
REVENUE
Charges for Services MiscTa xes
COMMON REPORTING STANDARD(CRS) 
EXPENSES
6.0%
7.1%
28.6% 58.3%
Personnel Contractual Services
Parts & Supplies Capital
Figure 17: CRS Revenue Chart
Figure 18: CRS Expense Chart
Jaycee Park
69  |  PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION     PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION  |  70
FEES AND PRICING STRUCTURES
DIFFERENTIAL PRICING
The charging of a different price to different 
groups for the same service, even though there is 
no directly corresponding difference in the costs 
of providing the service to each of those groups. 
Differential pricing is often provided for youth and 
seniors as there is often support for encouraging 
their participation. At times military, veteran and 
family discounts are also provided.
Another consideration is resident and non-
residents. Residents are those living in the city 
limits thus making a significant contribution and 
support to the Parks and Recreation Department. 
Non-residents are charged a higher fee to account 
for the lack of property taxes paid to the City that 
support the programs and facilities. The amount 
typically ranges from 10-50% greater than the 
resident rate.
If there is a non-resident fee, it is usually applied 
to program registration, facility reservations 
(ballfields, indoor facilities, pavilions), and 
recreation center/aquatic center memberships. 
The biggest challenge with having a difference in 
the daily fee is that it's typically a small amount 
($1-$2), and staff taking the money may not 
consistently charge the increased fee amount or 
feel comfortable inquiring about residency. Also, 
these staff may not be trained or equipped to 
handle the inevitable conflict when someone is 
unhappy about it.
FEES AND CHARGES
Fees and charges, along with cost recovery 
performance, should be reviewed on a consistent 
basis. This is typically done with the budget 
process, but at a minimum should be done every 
three years. For most agencies, there are two 
categories, direct costs and indirect costs. It 
should be noted that any capital expenses by their 
definition are indirect costs but should not be 
listed as such for cost recovery purposes. Below 
are definitions of costs:
 » Direct Costs: Costs associated with the 
customer’s or user’s direct experience. These 
costs typically include supplies, materials, basic 
equipment that is unique to the program (under 
$500), instructors, officials, special insurance, 
and other expenses that can be directly 
attributed to the operation of the program or 
facility.
 » Indirect Costs: Departmental expenses, which 
are not directly incurred by the program 
or facility but may be charged to it. They 
include, but are not limited to, administrative 
staff, printing, standard equipment, utilities, 
maintenance/custodial, recreation supervisory 
staff and other costs that are indirectly related 
to the program or facility.
KEY FINDINGS
 » In Cheyenne, three areas that may be 
the most difficult to implement pricing 
differentials for those facilities and 
integrate them into a pricing pyramid 
are the Botanical Garden, Civic Center 
and Ice & Events Center. Botanical 
Gardens may rely more on non-
residents than residents. 
 » Most likely the organizers hosting 
events at the Civic Center and Ice & 
Events are non-residents. Adding a 
non-resident fee for those facilities 
may have a negative impact on overall 
revenue. 
PRICING
A program pyramid is a way to categorize 
programs based on the market for services, 
potential cost recovery, and demonstrated public 
benefit. When programs are designated in various 
categories, the collective program cost recovery 
can then contribute to the cost recovery of a 
facility.
The following image is meant to provide a graphical 
representation of a cost recovery pyramid for 
Cheyenne. Trends (local, regional, national), 
program history, and maximizing participation are 
the basis for the tiers represented in this pyramid.
Figure 19: Program-Pricing Pyramid
MARKET FOR SERVICE
At the base of the pyramid, the market for services 
is the greatest, i.e., it has the largest appeal to the 
community. It is important to note this pyramid 
illustrates the entire city. There are undoubtedly 
areas of the community where “appeal” varies 
based on the population.
BENEFIT LEVEL
A program that has community benefit can 
also have individual benefit and vice versa. The 
differentiators as one evaluates the benefit level 
should include: 
 » Skill level of the instruction:  As the skill level of 
the instruction increases, so does the individual 
benefit. For example, drop-in participation 
classes require the instructor to be a resource 
rather than teach a specific skill.
 » Program consumable: Many community 
benefit programs primarily use supplies that 
can be reused rather than consumables. A good 
example of this is an after-school program. 
However, as a program focuses more on 
individual benefits, it often relies more on one-
time consumables.
 » Specialization of facility:  As the specialization 
of the facility increases so does the individual 
benefit. Example: drop-in basketball at an 
outdoor court v. indoor basketball league where 
officials, scorekeepers, and exclusive access is 
needed.
 » Exclusivity of facility usage: If a program needs 
exclusive use of space and does not allow other 
activities to take place in a similar location at the 
same time, there is significant individual benefit. 
David R. Romero Park
71  |  PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION     PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION  |  72
FACILITIES ASSESSMENT
KEY FINDINGS
 » Compared to similar-sized 
communities, Cheyenne lacks indoor 
recreation space.
 » The athletic fields in Cheyenne are 
adequate, but the lack of lights limits 
their use during the busy spring and fall 
seasons for many athletic programs.
 » Athletic complexes are not distributed 
across the City.
 » Many of the athletic complexes need 
more adequate parking.
 » The Beast acquisition provides the 
only indoor recreation center, while 
the other facilities are more typical 
community center spaces.
 » Overall, the facilities and athletic fields 
are maintained in good condition.
 » Investments have been made in the 
Civic Center, and it needs to continue 
to maintain its place in providing 
performing arts.
 » Maintenance and storage should be 
provided at multiple complexes, with 
additional maintenance and storage 
provided at Brimmer, Cahill, Cheyenne 
Junior Baseball, Converse, Dutcher, and 
North Cheyenne.
 » Batting cages are expensive to operate 
with minimal return.
 » A facility plan should be developed to 
address the aging infrastructure and 
modern conveniences found in newer 
facilities.
TYPE NO OF 
FIELDS LIGHTED ARTIFICIAL 
TURF
Diamond 27 12 5 Infield
Adult (300 ft 
+fence)
5
Youth 22
Rectangular 13 0 0
Adult (150 ft 
x 240 ft)
5
Youth 8 (striped 
for 24)
Total 39 12 5
SPORTS COMPLEXES
Athletic 
Fields
Batting 
Cages
Concessions Lights
Brimmer 
Park
3 Yes Yes Yes
Converse 
Softball 
Complex
4 Yes Yes Yes
Dutcher Field 5 No Yes Yes
Junior League 
Complex
9 Yes Yes Yes
Pioneer Park 1 No Yes Yes
Powers Field 1 No Yes Yes
VFW Pride 
Park
2 No No No
OUTDOOR SPORTS FACILITY
Cahill Soccer 
Complex
4 No No No
North 
Cheyenne 
Community 
Park
5 No No No
Coke 
Gonzales 
Field
1 No No No
Dunbar Field 1 No
Pointe Park 1 No No No
Romero Park 1 No No No
Sun Valley 
Park
1 No No No
Table 12: Sports Facility AmenitiesPICKLEBALL
For populations of 50,000 - 99,999, it's about 
1 court per 10,000. Sports Fitness Industry 
Association (SFIA) has produced a benchmark 
for pickleball. The national average for dedicated 
courts is:
 » Over 100,000 population - 0.65 per 10,000
 » 10,000-100,000 population - 1.59 per 10,000
The private sector has been pretty aggressive with 
building facilities for pickleball, with more of a 
focus on indoor versus outdoor. The addition of the 
Beast to the system provides good public access to 
indoor courts.
DISC GOLF COURSE
Disc Golf courses are a popular amenity. Park 
districts are able to provide baskets in locations 
without creating full courses, as demand occurs. 
Cheyenne has three courses: Dry Creek Parkway, 
Mylar and Romero. The current provision of disc 
golf is adequate, especially compared to other 
communities of Cheyenne's size. A good standard 
is 1 per 50,000 in population.
AQUATICS
The community is served well by the indoor aquatic 
center, as it has two separate bodies of water. 
One water body has lap lanes for competitive 
swimming, a diving well and shallow water 
teaching area, and is kept at a lower temperature. 
The other pool is a recreational pool with a zero 
depth, play structure, lazy river and water slides, 
and is kept warmer. An inflatable can be used in 
the lap pool to expand the recreational use. The 
City should continue to monitor the programs, 
activities and use of the facilities, and make 
adjustments accordingly. Johnson Pool in Lincoln 
Park is currently in a re-design process with full 
facility replacement anticipated.
The comfort of water bodies to support different 
users is tricky. Lap swimmers prefer around 80 
degrees, recreation users around 84, and then 
therapy 88+. Public comment indicates some water 
bodies have been too cold. The City should continue 
to adjust facilities according to user trends and 
demands.
The Beast
73  |  PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION     PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION  |  74
RECREATION PROGRAMS AND SERVICES 
ASSESSMENT
HIGH PROGRAM AREAS
 » Aquatics
 » Self-Directed Sports
 » Youth Programs
MEDIUM PROGRAM AREAS
 » Cultural Arts
 » Outdoor Recreation
 » Special Events
LIMITED PROGRAM AREAS
 » Education
 » Fitness
 » General Interest
 » Older Adults
 » Social Services
 » Special needs
 » Teens
PROGRAM DELIVERY
Several divisions within the organization offer 
an array of models for implementing programs 
designed to benefit the community. Among these 
are the Programs & Facilities Division, Recreation 
Division and Aquatics Division. The City of 
Cheyenne's primary models can be described as 
follows:
 »  Staff Run: These programs are organized and 
led by full-time and part-time staff, and they can 
occur on a seasonal or annual basis.
 » Third Party: These programs may or may 
not appear in the program brochure but are 
managed by a third-party contractor. The 
instructors are compensated on a contract 
basis, and there is typically a revenue-sharing 
arrangement between the contractor and the 
Programs & Facilities Division.
 » User groups: These programs, which may or 
may not appear in the program brochure, are 
organized by an external group using the facility 
or field space provided by the Programs & 
Facilities Division.
KEY FINDINGS
 » Most of the programming efforts focus on aquatics, sports, and youth.
 » The majority of the programming is provided by part-time staff or affiliated 
organizations and associations.
 » There has yet to be a formal plan to identify future needs or develop strategies for 
them, but staff has created an internal strategic plan for existing programs.
 » Program fees vary depending on the program and the instructor’s level of 
involvement.
 » Recreation programs and services are typically planned and delivered at the facility 
level to meet diverse needs and expectations.
 » Recreation programs lack a comprehensive marketing plan.
 » The Programs & Facilities Division maintains basic performance measures and 
records for recreation programs.
Cahill Park
 Yoga Classes
75  |  PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION     PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION  |  76
EQUITY PRIORITY MAPPING
Cheyenne is committed to ensuring that every 
resident, regardless of age, gender, or physical 
ability, has equal access to parks and recreation. 
This includes not only those within the City but 
also those in surrounding areas. Cheyenne is 
dedicated to creating a park system that embraces 
inclusivity and provides something for everyone, 
including playgrounds, sports fields, greenway 
trails, and open space so the whole community 
feels welcome and valued.
EQUITY PRIORITY ANALYSIS
Equity Priority Mapping is an analysis that 
provides insight into addressing equity gaps and 
can be a key tool in identifying priority areas 
within Cheyenne. It can also help determine where 
additional resources are needed, understand the 
local factors currently driving the cumulative 
impacts, and develop strategies to address the 
source of these impacts.
EQUITY PRIORITY ZONES
The Equity Priority Zones represent areas within 
the City of Cheyenne with higher concentrations 
of vulnerable populations and health conditions 
indicative of environmental inequities. The 
Equity Priority Zones shown in Figure 20 visually 
represent these zones.
The Equity Priority Zones map shows the 
composite of three equally weighted sub-indexes 
on the following pages. Each sub-index includes 
factors related to quality-of-life determinants that 
could inform parks and recreation provision. The 
equity zones are then categorized using a ranking 
scale that indicates the priority level.
The highest priority areas for equity are in 
the southwest and central sections of the city, 
including the historic district, areas between the 
I-25 and I-80 corridors, along the railway, and 
around the Cheyenne Regional Airport to the north 
and south. Additional areas include neighborhoods 
to the east, around Highway 212 and the Lincoln 
Highway.
Figure 20: Equity Index Priority Map Composite
EQUITY INDEX PRIORITY COMPOSITE
LEGEND
EQUITY PRIORITY
Lowest Priority
Highest Priority
Cheyenne City Limits
Lakes, Pond, Rivers and Streams
0 0.75 1.5 3 MI
77  |  PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION     PARK SYSTEM EVALUATION  |  78
EQUITY INDICATORS
ABOUT THE METHODOLOGY
The Equity Mapping Methodology considers equity 
through the lenses of health, socioeconomic, and 
environmental justice indicators. It incorporates 
a wide range of demographic, environmental, and 
community factors relevant to park-related equity. 
For this analysis, equity was calculated as a 
composite of three sub-indexes (weighted equally), 
each containing several indicators combined to 
generate a specific sub-index score.
The first sub-index incorporates indicators relating 
to age, ability, and health (Figure 21). The second 
sub-index looks at the demographic, economic, 
and social aspects (Figure 22). The third includes 
natural and environmental hazards (Figure 23).
Each sub-index has its own set of indicators that 
summarize multiple criteria that combine multiple 
data criteria into a single measure. This is achieved 
by standardizing different data types to ensure 
all characteristics are on the same scale. This 
approach enables direct comparisons of different 
data, making it easier to evaluate them on an 
equal basis. When combined, the three sub-indexes 
generate an Equity Priority Zones composite map 
(Figure 20). 
WHY THESE EQUITY INDICATORS ARE 
IMPORTANT
AGE, ABILITY, AND HEALTH INDICATORS
Spending time in parks and nature has numerous 
health benefits, including improved respiratory 
health, blood pressure, cholesterol levels, and 
overall well-being. It also positively impacts mental 
well-being and cognitive function and is linked 
to increased physical activity for better overall 
health.
Age-related indicators help understand the diverse 
needs of different generations in parks, such as 
inclusive play areas for children and rest areas 
for older adults. Parks should also accommodate 
individuals with limited mobility and disabilities. 
Considering these indicators helps identify health 
disparities, age gaps, and ability differences.
Figure 21: Age, Ability, and Health Indicators Map 
Figure 22: Demographic, Economic, and Social 
Indicators Map
Figure 23: Natural and Environmental Hazards 
Indicators Map
DEMOGRAPHIC, ECONOMIC, AND SOCIAL 
INDICATORS
Understanding the link between park access and 
socioeconomic status is crucial for identifying 
environmental injustices. A 2021 Trust for Public 
Land study found that low-income communities 
have 42% less park access than high-income 
neighborhoods. Additionally, parks serving low-
income households are, on average, four times 
smaller than those serving high-income households 
(25 acres versus 101 acres).
Nationally, neighborhoods with mostly non-white 
populations have 44% less park acreage than 
predominantly white neighborhoods. According 
to a Trust for Public Land study, predominantly 
Hispanic/Latinx neighborhoods have 54% less park 
acreage per person compared to predominantly 
white neighborhoods.
NATURAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS 
INDICATORS
Excessive heat can lead to health issues such as 
heat exhaustion, heatstroke, poor mental health, 
and cardiovascular stress. According to a Trust 
for Public Land study, evidence indicates that 
parks are one of the most effective ways for cities 
to protect their residents from the impacts of 
extreme heat.
Areas with limited green spaces are at higher 
risk of flooding because vegetation captures 
stormwater, preventing it from flooding streets 
and homes.
AGE, ABILITY, AND HEALTH 
INDICATORS INCLUDE: (12 FACTORS)
DEMOGRAPHIC, ECONOMIC, AND 
SOCIAL INDICATORS INCLUDE: 
(9 FACTORS)
NATURAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
HAZARDS INCLUDE: (3 FACTORS)
 » Tree Canopy Cover
 » Impervious Surfaces
 » Flood Risk
 »  Uninsured Population
 » Food Stamps/SNAP
 » Asthma
 » Heart Disease
 » Diabetes
 » Mental Health
 » Physical Health
 » Disability
 » Hypertension
 » Respiratory Disease
 » Senior Population
 » Young Children
 » Poverty
 » Unemployment
 » Vehicle Access
 » Cost Burden
 » Housing Tenure
 » Racial Minority
 » Housing Condition
 » Population Density
 » Internet Access
EQUITY PRIORITY
Lowest Priority
Highest Priority
    80
THEMES, GOALS 
AND STRATEGIES
 » Plan Framework
 » Plan Themes
 » Plan Vision
 » Active Year Round
 » Meet More Needs
 » Celebrate Community Culture and Place
 » Environmental Stewardship
 » Align and Expand Funding
4
81  |  THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES     THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES  |  82
ACTION ITEMS
What are the next steps?
This is the prioritized “to-do-list” and 
include policy, future projects or plans. 
See Chapter 5 Implementation for 
Action Items derived from the plan 
Strategies.
PLAN FRAMEWORK
INTRODUCTION
This chapter provides guidance and 
recommendations for the City of Cheyenne 
to continue to provide high quality parks and 
programs into the future. This Master Plan is 
intended to provide direction for the next ten 
years.
PLAN VISION STATEMENT
The following vision statement was crafted from 
public and city staff input to express the desired 
outcome of this plan- what Cheyenne will seek to 
become in its parks and recreation within the next 
ten years. This vision statement provides overall 
guidance for plan goals and the organization of 
strategies.
DEPARTMENT MISSION STATEMENT
The mission of Cheyenne’s Community Recreation 
& Events Department is to create community 
through people, parks, events, and programs by 
providing recreational, health, and entertainment 
opportunities that positively impact quality of life, 
economic and workforce development, and youth 
retention.
 Community Workshop
VISION
Where do we hope to be in 10 years?
A Vision Statement is to guide direction 
on where the city is headed and steer 
towards desired outcomes.
THEMES
What is the focus of the plan?
Themes provide focus and categories 
for the plan goals. They emphasize what 
needs to be addressed to accomplish the 
plan vision.
GOALS
What do we aspire to achieve?
The goals are specific opportunities 
under each theme for the city to move 
forward towards the vision.
STRATEGIES
What is the approach to take?
This is the method or flexible approach 
recommended to undertake. Strategies 
are not promises, but rather a guide for 
how to achieve the goals.
PLAN THEMES
ACTIVE YEAR ROUND
CELEBRATE COMMUNITY CULTURE AND PLACE
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
ALIGN AND EXPAND FUNDING
MEET MORE NEEDS
“To promote cultural enrichment 
and foster community 
stewardship in Cheyenne by 
creating exceptional parks, 
natural spaces, recreational 
facilities, and opportunities 
that enhance the quality of life 
and contribute to the greater 
economic development of the 
city.”
83  |  THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES     THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES  |  84
Sports Complex Improvements
Aquatics Facility Improvements
Nature Education Opportunity
Trail Connection Opportunity
Planned Parks
Potential Future Parkland 
Development
Park Master Plan
Playground Renovations
PLAN VISION 
DESCRIPTION
The Plan Vision Map aims to geographically locate 
areas of intervention and potential opportunities, 
correlating with goals, strategies, and actions 
under each of the respective themes. These are 
locations identified for potential physical changes 
or projects over the next ten-years or more.
Figure 24: Plan Vision Map
LEGEND
Cheyenne City Limits
Existing Indoor Facility Centers
Existing Parks
Existing Open Spaces
Planned Parks
Walkshed Gaps
High Priority Equity Zone
Existing Greenway Trails
Future Greenway Trails
Lakes, Rivers and Streams
CHEYENNE’S PLAN VISION MAP
0 0.75 1.5 3 MI

    86
ACTIVE YEAR-ROUND
“WE ENCOURAGE YEAR-ROUND HEALTHY LIVING”
Cheyenne focuses on providing recreational amenities and programs that 
attract and serve the population during all seasons. It includes extending 
the use and play at existing facilities, completing planned park projects, and 
sharing information widely to inform the public about what Cheyenne has 
to offer. This focus is critical for community health and being a place people 
want to be.
WHAT WE HEARD...
 » 60% of survey respondents 
identified seasonal weather 
constraints as the most common 
reason preventing the use of parks 
and recreation facilities.
 » 73% of survey respondents 
indicated that there is a need for 
more indoor recreation spaces.
 » According to the 2024-
2028 Wyoming Statewide 
Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation 
Plan( SCORP), the leading outdoor 
recreation activities in Laramie 
County are hiking/walking (81.8%), 
viewing natural scenery (77.9%), 
and driving for pleasure (75.5%). 
 » Locally and across Wyoming, there 
is a growing interest in winter 
recreational activities.
 » The most popular activity for 
adults in Cheyenne is walking for 
exercise (35% of the population), 
with jogging/running trailing close 
by with 11% of the population, 
collectively indicating a strong use 
and need of local trails. 
 » National participation in sports 
and fitness has increased in 2022, 
with 77.6% of people participating 
in at least one physical activity.
 » Approximately 68% of respondents 
visit Cheyenne’s parks and 
recreation facilities at least once a 
week.
G1: Increase Indoor Recreational Opportunities throughout the City
G2: Extend Capacity of Existing Facilities
G3: Enhance Trails and Greenway
G4: Enhance Public Information
87  |  THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES     THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES  |  88
ACTIVE YEAR-ROUND
GOAL 1 
INCREASE INDOOR RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES THROUGHOUT THE CITY
GOAL 2 
EXTEND CAPACITY OF EXISTING FACILITIES
GOAL 3 
ENHANCE TRAILS AND GREENWAY
GOAL 4 
ENHANCE PUBLIC INFORMATION
STRATEGIES 
1.1: Conduct an Indoor Recreation Feasibility Study, including the exploration of location alternatives 
and the potential range of costs. Many communities are now developing an indoor facility level of 
service (LOS) standard that is between 1 sq ft to 2 sq ft per person. Evaluate the development of 
financially sustainable indoor recreation facilities that may include such amenities as artificial turf 
and sports courts that accommodate a wide range of year-round recreation activities, ice, gym space, 
classrooms, arts and culture facilities, etc.
1.2: Evaluate additional indoor services opportunities and providers, i.e., teen centers, arts and 
culture, health services, and gym rentals.
1.3: Develop a voter support campaign to promote funding indoor recreation facilities.
1.4: Seek opportunities to partner with organizations to provide public recreation programs within 
their facilities.
1.5: Develop an Indoor Facility Concept Plan in order to develop a design and inform an estimate of 
costs for construction and long-term operation.
STRATEGIES 
2.1: Extend use and play during peak demand times in city park facilities. Access to the facilities 
is limited due to factors such as adverse weather conditions, staffing/maintenance, and evening 
restrictions. Prioritize facility upgrades, including lights, artificial turf, flexible surfacing, wind 
screens, shade structures, reservation systems, staff increases, and facility solutions to increase the 
use of facilities by extending daily and seasonal use.
2.2: Complete the implementation of individual park master plans and replacement of deficient park 
amenities.
2.3: Promote programming opportunities around outdoor winter recreation activities such as cross-
country skiing, sledding, community celebrations, and winter fat biking.
STRATEGIES 
3.1: Complete planned trail connections with a focus on linking parks and open space, residences, 
schools, and civic spaces. Refer to "Figure 25: Open Space Potential Map" on page 103 for identified 
Greenway Connection Gap areas to be addressed.
3.2: Prioritize a list of trail enhancement and creation projects remaining to be implemented from 
previous trail plans and create a timeline for capital investments. 
3.3: Continue to maintain select park walking loops and greenway trails year-round to encourage 
fitness and mobility.
3.4: Evaluate city trails for additional amenities (i.e., trailhead parking, restroom access, benches, 
plantings, etc.) and connections.
3.5: Continue to connect neighborhoods to city parks and recreation facilities through safe and 
convenient sidewalks and trails.
3.6: Create a comprehensive city trail master plan that expands the types and design of trails 
beyond the Greater Cheyenne Greenway to include dirt and soft surface options. 
STRATEGIES 
4.1: Increase awareness around the city's parks and recreation by investing in additional 
advertisement and outreach methods.
4.2: Increase outreach methods for community involvement in parks and recreation planning and 
design.
4.3: Collaborate with community partners like schools and libraries to raise awareness about 
outdoor educational and nature-based programs.
    90
MEET MORE NEEDS
WHAT WE HEARD...
“WE PROVIDE A PHYSICALLY INTERCONNECTED 
SYSTEM OF RECREATIONAL RESOURCES AND AIM 
TO SERVE A DIVERSE POPULATION, WELCOME ALL 
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY, AND FACILITATE 
OPPORTUNITIES TO CONTRIBUTE TO POPULATION 
RETENTION”
Cheyenne recognizes the need for improved health and well-being of 
underserved populations through parks and recreational programs, as well 
as opportunities that contribute to population (youth) retention through 
various means, including cultural enrichment and arts.
 » The gap analysis studies 
identifies South Cheyenne as the 
neighborhood with significant 
service gaps and populations 
with higher socio-economic and 
health disparities.
 » The facilities assessment 
identifies a lack of 
intergenerational and family-
based programming.
 » 40% of survey respondents 
feel that there are too few 
programs for teens, low-income 
households, and people with 
special needs.
G1: Equitably Address Neighborhood Needs
G2: Increase Service to Underserved Groups
G3: Promote Youth Retention
91  |  THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES     THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES  |  92
MEETING MORE NEEDS
GOAL 1 
EQUITABLY ADDRESS NEIGHBORHOOD NEEDS
GOAL 2 
INCREASE SERVICE TO UNDERSERVED GROUPS
GOAL 3 
PROMOTE YOUTH RETENTION
Powers Field
STRATEGIES 
1.1: Address geographic access gaps in park provision by improving walking connections and 
providing parks in locations identified in the walkshed gaps shown in Figure 24: Plan Vision Map.
1.2: Complete planned new parks in the city to fulfill existing and proposed service gaps.
1.3: Promote equitable access to the park and recreation system for all by investing in parks, 
programs, and connections in equity zones.
1.4: Form a parks and recreation commission and encourage a broad range of diversity within the 
commission to represent the sectors of the community. 
1.5: When conducting park, programming, and trail planning activities, engage community members 
to understand the features and amenities that will best serve particular areas and city members.
1.6: Establish a secure and inviting park atmosphere, enhancing the perceptions of safety.
1.7: Design parks to reflect the culture, history, and influence of the diversity of the population to 
encourage a sense of welcoming and celebration.
STRATEGIES
3.1: Expand the engagement of young people in community improvement projects to gain and 
incorporate their perspectives, needs, and goals.
3.2: Expand partnerships with organizations such as the Boys and Girls Club, schools, and the library 
to enhance the latest activity trends, program offerings, and events.
3.3: Participate in job readiness programs for equipping youth with skills and experiences to prepare 
them for future employment.
3.4: Develop a campaign to build awareness in youth and young adults of the range of outdoor places, 
programs, recreation activities, and events available.
3.5: Expand activities of interest to teens and young adults, such as arts and culture, fitness 
programs and equipment, social activities and events, skill building, outdoor exploration/adventure 
recreation, and more.
STRATEGIES
2.1: Improve marketing of available programming by developing a marketing plan directed at critical 
populations (different providers may deliver service).
2.2: Focus program offerings to fill gaps and design parks to reach critical populations - teens, people 
with disabilities and special needs, older adults and seniors, intergenerational and families, ethnic 
communities, and low-income households.
2.3: Cultivate introductory recreational experiences and opportunities to create positive connections 
with the outdoors, designed with inclusivity and equity at the forefront.
2.4: Support the efforts of community recreation partners to reach diverse populations and expand 
participation in nature-based recreation and education activities.
2.5: Create comprehensive diversity, equity, and inclusion policies to guide department operations 
and management.
2.6: Implement strategies for improved inclusive recreation for all ages and abilities, such as the 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Universal Design.
2.7: Expand programming to serve populations with lower rates of physical activity and participation 
in group activities, such as seniors and young women.
    94
CELEBRATE COMMUNITY 
CULTURE AND PLACE
WHAT WE HEARD...
“WE CELEBRATE CHEYENNE’S UNIQUE FEATURES 
AND ASSETS THROUGH OUR PARKS AND RECREATION 
SYSTEM”
Cheyenne has much to celebrate as a City - its Western identity and 
supporting history, a community of highly invested stewards and volunteers 
that have a reputation for giving and shaping their community, and its 
position as Wyoming’s State Capitol – to name a few. These will be evident in 
the City's places and programs.
 » Online survey respondents 
commented that there are 
limited opportunities offered by 
the department for cultural arts 
program and activities.
 » Focus groups felt there should be 
a focus on placemaking and art 
through parks and greenway.
 » 56% of survey respondents 
felt that it was very important 
to promote appreciation and 
preservation of culture and 
heritage.
 » 69% of survey respondents 
felt it was very important to 
provide places, programs, and 
community events for people 
to socialize and experience arts 
and culture.
G1: Invest in Placemaking and Artful Design
G2: Facilitate Cultural Enrichment and Arts
G3: Promote Celebrations and Gatherings
G4: Contribute to the Preservation of History
95  |  THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES     THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES  |  96
CELEBRATE COMMUNITY CULTURE AND PLACE
GOAL 1
INVEST IN PLACEMAKING AND ARTFUL DESIGN
GOAL 2
FACILITATE CULTURAL ENRICHMENT AND ARTS
GOAL 3
PROMOTE CELEBRATIONS AND GATHERINGS
GOAL 4
CONTRIBUTE TO THE PRESERVATION OF HISTORY
Underpass Art at Holliday Park
Cheyenne Lacrosse Team Volunteering
STRATEGIES
1.1: Enhance parks with amenities, design, and programs of interest to be representative of the 
surrounding community.
1.2: Enhance trail infrastructure and user experiences with improved wayfinding and signage, 
amenities, and ecological experiences.
1.3: Participate in the creation of a city-wide public art plan to identify locations for types of art to 
incorporate in strategic parks and recreation locations.
1.4: Expand the successes of the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens to additional parks and public spaces by 
including plant materials such as ornamental grasses and flowering trees that celebrate the region's 
climate and landscape.
STRATEGIES
3.1: Design parks and public spaces infrastructure to host events and community gatherings 
throughout the city.
3.2: Expand offering community events that cater to underserved groups and the diversity of 
cultures in the community.
3.3: Forge partnerships with other providers to promote opportunities for community events and 
programming around culture and the arts.
3.4: Collaborate with the public to better use and improve park spaces to build a sense of community 
and togetherness, including consideration of resources, policies, volunteer availability, maintenance, 
and activating different park types.
STRATEGIES
2.1: Activate park spaces with events and community programming and encourage partnerships 
with event organizing and hosting groups.
2.2: Identify art and interpretive signage locations for new, undeveloped, and existing parks and 
trails.
STRATEGIES
4.1: Work with city organizations to identify lands, structures, monuments, and other assets within 
Cheyenne that have historical and/or cultural significance and identify a process for preservation.
4.2: Incorporate informational and interpretative signage throughout park and recreation spaces 
to help with storytelling around historic resources and celebrate the diversity of people who have 
contributed to Cheyenne.
4.3: Promote and celebrate Cheyenne’s Western identity and standing as Wyoming’s State Capitol.
    98
ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP
WHAT WE HEARD...
“WE ARE STEWARDS OF OUR CITY’S LANDS AND 
NATURAL RESOURCES AND DELIVER THE HIGHEST 
QUALITY PARKS AND FACILITIES”
Cheyenne’s Community Recreation & Events department demonstrates 
ingenuity and resourcefulness. It’s a hallmark of our operational structure. 
The City works with the natural systems as environmental stewards to 
promote a healthy ecosystem, promote climate resiliency, educate the 
community about the benefits of natural systems, and deliver the highest 
quality parks, facilities, and offerings for the community.
 » 51% of survey respondents 
believe that there is a lack of 
outdoor education, nature 
exploration programming 
provided by the City.
 » 44% of survey respondents 
think spending time outdoors 
and connecting with nature 
is extremely important, and 
another 38% find it very 
important.
G1: Plan for Climate Adaptation and Mitigate Hazards
G2: Enhance Open Space and Natural Resource Management
G3: Promote Stewardship and Environmental Education 
Opportunities
G4: Optimize Everyday Operations and Maintenance Practices
99  |  THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES     THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES  |  100
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
GOAL 1
PLAN FOR CLIMATE ADAPTATION AND MITIGATE HAZARDS
GOAL 2
ENHANCE OPEN SPACE AND NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Lions Park
Greater Cheyenne Greenway
STRATEGIES
1.1: Consider how park and open space facilities can support hazard mitigation.
 a. Collaborate with community wildfire planning by considering the use of open space corridors as 
fire breaks and parks with fire-smart landscapes/maintenance.
 b. Use green infrastructure to combat extreme temperatures, wind, and stormwater discharge 
through urban forestry best practices, rain gardens, wind breaks, wetland expansion, and 
adaptive plant materials.
 c. Integrate with city emergency management response. Consider how park and recreation 
facilities can be used as community resilience hubs, such as cooling stations, food distribution, 
and disaster shelters.
 d. Increase shade through tree canopies and shade structures to shelter users from extreme 
weather, particularly in areas of active recreation such as sports complexes and playground 
areas.
1.2: Identify and prioritize habitats that offer critical ecological functions and develop mechanisms to 
protect, restore, and expand these habitats, including capturing and cleaning stormwater, improving 
air quality, providing and improving habitat, and reducing heat-island effects.
1.3: Prepare for drought with consideration of plant material tolerant to drought, irrigation needs 
and water efficiency, and ground-water storage.
1.4: Align priorities for climate adaptation and hazard mitigation with Cheyenne's Comprehensive 
Climate Action Plan, anticipated 2026, to include measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 
enhance carbon sinks with nature-based solutions.
STRATEGIES
2.1: Seek open space conservation and environmental stewardship opportunities as identified in 
Figure 25: Open Space Potential Map.
2.2: Promote healthy native plant communities and bird, mammal, and amphibian habitats through 
maintenance, restoration, and education.
2.3: Increase staff and resources for innovative natural resource management and restoration.
2.4: Maintain member responsibilities under the Colorado River Compact in the stewardship of water 
resources within a dry climate.
2.5: Develop a natural and sensitive areas plan that features the preservation of unique or sensitive 
environmental resources (riparian, prairie, ranchland, ridgelines), key views, and ecological features 
that contribute to Cheyenne’s “western” identity.
2.6: Reduce water use and intensive maintenance practices in parks and public spaces by limiting 
irrigated and managed turf areas. This includes converting current turf grass areas to more 
sustainable materials. Turf areas should support active recreation uses.
2.7: Actively seek land protections for endangered short-grass prairie ecosystems within and 
surrounding the city. Implement maintenance plans and restoration projects to enhance this 
ecosystem and mitigate disturbance.
2.8: Prioritize adding open space and greenway conservation along waterways and waterbodies to 
increase environmental protection of water resources. Seek to join open spaces for contiguous land 
preservation and wildlife movement.
101  |  THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES     THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES  |  102
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
GOAL 3
PROMOTE STEWARDSHIP AND ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION 
OPPORTUNITIES
GOAL 4
OPTIMIZE EVERYDAY OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PRACTICES
Kiwanis Park Pond
STRATEGIES
3.1: Promote introductory recreational experiences designed with inclusivity and equity to connect 
citizens to Cheyenne’s outdoor opportunities.
3.2: Support the efforts of community partners to expand nature-based offerings.
3.3: Encourage connections with nature in the city and neighborhoods.
3.4: Increase volunteer opportunities to engage citizens with their parks and recreation system. 
3.5: Partner with the Botanic Gardens to host educational community events that encourage 
learning about and stewarding Cheyenne’s unique natural qualities.
3.6: Provide opportunities for the public to see and learn about native ecologies and plant 
communities through demonstration areas.
STRATEGIES
4.1: Emphasize taking care of and extending the use of the resources already within the system 
above acquiring new ones. Conduct a facility assessment to determine specific requirements for each 
park/facility.
4.2: Emphasize the quality of facilities, including their long-range life cycle costs, in planning and 
design.
4.3: Delineate clear departmental responsibilities and collaborate with other departments to 
coordinate maintenance and capital improvement projects based on staff, equipment, and skill 
efficiencies within the city structure.
4.4: Evaluate, track, and measure the department’s operational details on a regular basis.
4.5: Establish management plans for different types of properties (parks, open spaces, and trails) 
that lead to code amendments.
4.6: Reduce the long-term energy inputs of maintenance and operations through careful analysis and 
guidelines that inform long-term operations of existing and planned resources.
 a. Provide additional maintenance and storage facilities at Brimmer, Cahill, Cheyenne Junior 
Baseball, Converse, Dutcher, and North Cheyenne.
4.7: When creating tree management plans for park spaces, consider species selection and succession 
timelines and follow sustainable forestry management practices and policies that respect Cheyenne’s 
native ecology and available water resources.
4.8: Maintain investment in the asset management system and continue to integrate internal 
systems to track and develop plans to address maintenance and capital improvement goals.
4.9: Implement crime prevention through environmental design by:
 » Installing lighting in key areas such as restrooms, pavilions and parking lots with motion sensors.
 » Maintaining landscape to ensure clear sightlines and eliminating hiding spots. Limit the use of 
dense vegetation near playgrounds, pavilions, restrooms, and other features prone to vandalism.
 » Utilizing vandal-resistant materials to minimize damage to signs, benches, and other site 
amenities.
 » Integrating technology into doors, locks, and gates for scheduling.
 » Increasing patrols of parks by engaging law enforcement and establishing volunteer programs.
103  |  THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES     THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES  |  104
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
Greenway Walkshed Gaps
Flood Hazard Zones
Cheyenne City Limits
Future Greenway Trails
Wetlands
Lakes, Rivers and Streams
Existing Trailheads
Cheyenne Greenway Existing
County Greenway Existing
State Lands
County Park
Federal Lands
Cheyenne Parks
Existing Open Space
Tree Canopy Cover
Figure 25: Open Space Potential Map 0 0.75 1.5 3 MI
Nature Education Opportunity
Trail Connection Opportunity
Planned Parks
Potential Future Parkland 
Development
    106
ALIGN AND EXPAND FUNDING
WHAT WE HEARD...
“WE ARE RESPONSIBLE STEWARDS OF PUBLIC FUNDS 
AND ASSETS”
Cheyenne places great importance on its park and recreation system, 
focusing on practical elements of funding, implementation, and real estate 
management – how to best leverage developer fees through updated rates, 
how to fund new facilities and amenities, how to provide clear policies on 
appropriate land dedications towards parks and recreation, and how to 
support the park system through partnerships.
 » 82% of survey respondents 
indicated they would be 
extremely willing or somewhat 
likely to support additional 
funding and spending for parks 
and recreation improvements in 
the future.
 » Focus on investing in existing 
infrastructure and efficiently 
utilizing current resources 
before expanding further. 
(Online Survey & Focus Groups)
 » While Laramie County offers 
recreational opportunities at 
Clear Creek Park, Archer, and a 
few miles of Greenway, many 
communities outside Cheyenne 
rely on Cheyenne's parks 
and recreation system. Work 
towards a fair system of sharing 
the costs of park and recreation 
resources across user groups. 
(Focus Groups)
 » Lack of clarity on policies and 
responsibilities surrounding city 
properties and maintenance 
schedules (Focus Groups)
G1: Increase Park Funding and Invest in the Vision
G2: Align Developer Policies and Fees with City Needs and Priorities
G3: Strengthen Partnerships
G4: Update Pricing Structure
107  |  THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES     THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES  |  108
ALIGN AND EXPAND FUNDING
GOAL 3
STRENGTHEN PARTNERSHIPS
GOAL 1
INCREASE PARK FUNDING AND INVEST IN THE VISION
GOAL 2
ALIGN DEVELOPER POLICIES AND FEES WITH CITY NEEDS AND PRIORITIES
GOAL 4
UPDATE PRICING STRUCTURES
STRATEGIES
1.1: Pursue increased allocations and distributions of internal city funding sources, including, but 
not limited to general fund dollars, 6th penny/5th penny for maintaining the current system and 
offerings. See the list of potential funding sources in Chapter 5 for more information.
1.2: Collaborate with other city departments to leverage the distributions to diversify funding 
sources.
1.3: Expand revenue-generating activities in park spaces by creating a coordinated marketing 
strategy, increasing rental/fee opportunities, and utilizing staff resources to promote activities, park 
space events, and activity rentals.
1.4: Provide annual reporting on investments and projects completed to inform the public on 
progress in the park system.
1.5: Support improvements that strengthen opportunities for economic development (sales tax 
revenue), such as tournament tourism, marketing the botanic gardens and greenway, and supporting 
community events and unique Cheyenne experiences.
1.6: Seek voter support for funding the creation of indoor recreation facilities.
STRATEGIES
2.1: Revise developer requirement (UDC) for parks, open space, and recreation contributions to 
provide a fair share of funding to fund increased growth and need demands.
2.2: Where applicable, dispose of lands that are not useful to the department or its mission. Refer to 
Figure 26 Acquisitions and Disposals Map for identified locations.
2.3: Set clear standards and requirements for parkland dedications by developers as to the qualities 
of the property and its potential for recreation value.
2.4: Conduct an impact fee study to update rates for developer impact fees to match market 
conditions. Review at a minimum every three (3) years.
2.5: Pursue strategic acquisitions that accomplish resiliency planning, connectivity goals, and access 
gaps.
STRATEGIES
3.1: Strengthen partnerships between the city and county in the provision of park and recreation 
amenities and programming and align with a shared vision.
3.2: Support volunteerism and community fundraising.
3.3: Determine the specific areas of responsibility for the City of Cheyenne Community Recreation & 
Events Department while leaving other functions to other organizations and entities.
3.4: Define and recognize the core recreation services for delivery and recognize those that do not 
fall within the values or vision of the parks and recreation division.
3.5: Expand opportunities with outside providers to promote services to the community that fall 
within the department’s mission of supporting community health, recreation, and entertainment 
opportunities.
3.6: Re-establish recreational programs and activities in collaboration with the school district to 
provide more opportunities to engage in cost-supportive sports, arts, and other activities.
STRATEGIES
4.1: Develop a program plan.
4.2: Develop a fee policy with cost recovery for facilities and program categories.
4.3: Make recreation and programs more cost accessible to lower-income communities.
Greater Cheyenne Greenway
109  |  THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES     THEMES, GOALS AND STRATEGIES  |  110
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS MAP
Cheyenne City Limits
Cheyenne Parks
Figure 26: Acquisitions and Disposals Map 0 0.75 1.5 3 MI
City-owned, identify 
appropriate department to 
maintain or increase funding 
for CRE (staff, equipment).
C
Area too small to offer visual 
resource or useful amenity. 
Remove any amenities and 
pave.
D
Sell to potential Developer
A
Right of way, adjacent 
property owner responsibility
B
City-owned based on floodway 
issued. Identify appropriate 
department to maintain or 
increase funding for CRE (staff, 
equipment).
E
    112
IMPLEMENTATION
 » Capital Improvement Projects
 » Prioritizing Investment
 » Action Plan
 » Funding Methods and Sources
5
113  |  IMPLEMENTATION     IMPLEMENTATION  |  114
PRIORITIZING INVESTMENT
PROJECT PRIORITIZATION 
The project list uses multiple factors to establish 
priorities. Projects were assessed based on their 
alignment with the plan’s values, goals, and 
strategies. The complexity of the projects, as well 
as their feasibility and capabilities, were taken into 
consideration when prioritizing them.
ACTION ITEMS EXPLAINED
This section provides specific action items to 
support the strategies outlined in Chapter 4. These 
action items are meant to be near-term, initial 
steps to be completed and are not intended to 
serve as a detailed, step-by-step process but rather 
as a way to get the Parks Division started.
The matrix tables on the following pages outline 
the recommended strategies within a timeframe 
that allows the department to achieve the 
outlined goals. They are intended to be used as 
a guide for developing annual work plans. These 
tables can help align partnerships with other city 
departments, the City Council, neighborhood 
groups, non-profit organizations, and private 
agencies or businesses.
Action Items are categorized by whether they 
require capital investment, operational shift, or 
policy change, as defined below:
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
Capital Improvements refer to physical 
enhancements or improvements to the parks 
system, such as park upgrades, investing in 
undeveloped properties, acquiring land for new 
parks, and investing in park programs.
OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
Operational Improvements are departmental 
changes that lead to shifts in the day-to-day 
management of the parks system, such as 
recommendations for grounds maintenance 
activities or staffing.
POLICY IMPROVEMENTS
Policy improvements are the action items that 
include updates to administrative and legal 
processes, including planning approaches, 
procedural enhancements, system-wide reform, 
and design guidelines.
ACTION PRIORITY TIME FRAME
Each action item is assigned a timeframe for 
implementation:
 » Near-term - priorities to be implemented within 
1 to 3 years.
 » Mid -term - priorities to be implemented within 
4 to 6 years.
 » Long-term - priorities to be implemented within 
10+ years.
The Parks Division should regularly assess and 
revise its priorities using a prioritization matrix.
Each action item indicates which plan themes are 
supported:
Figure 27: Prioritization Diagram
Active Year Round
Celebrate Community 
Culture and Place
Environmental Stewardship
Align and Expand Funding
Meet More Needs
EXISTING 
CONDITIONS
 » Maintenance 
and replacement 
needs
 » Facility and 
Programming 
needs
 » Scale of the 
improvements
 » Features and 
amenities 
provided
LEVEL OF 
SERVICE
 » Park Acreage
 » Operations 
Assessment
 » Park 
Distribution and 
Access
 » Visitation and 
Recreation 
Trends
OPPORTUNITIES
 » Partnerships 
and community 
initiatives
 » Available 
funding sources
EQUITY PRIORITY 
ZONES
 » Age, ability, 
and health 
indicators
 » Demographic, 
economic, and 
social indicators
 » Natural and 
environmental 
hazards
FUNDING
PRIORITIES
EQUITY 
PRIORITY 
ZONES
OPPORTUNITIES
LEVEL OF 
SERVICE
EXISTING
CONDITIONS
PRIORITIZATION DIAGRAM
The Prioritization Diagram offers a framework for effectively implementing the plan’s strategies to 
achieve the goals associated with each theme (Figure 27). The diagram serves as a decision-making tool 
that provides flexibility for continuous evaluation and guides the Parks Division to stay on track.
115  |  IMPLEMENTATION     IMPLEMENTATION  |  116
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
Theme Action Item Priority 
Tier
ACTIVE YEAR-
ROUND
Implement Johnson Pool Facility replacement in Lincoln Park. Near-term
Implement Kiwanis Community Park Improvements based on the master plan, 
focusing on user experiences, water quality improvements, and wildlife habitat. Near-term
Complete miscellaneous South Cheyenne Greenway Connector Projects. Near-term
Complete Sun Valley to Kiwanis Park Greenway Connector segment. Mid-term
Complete 2 Creek, MLK Park through FE Warren Freedom Elementary Greenway 
segment. Long-term
Complete Allison Draw Greenway. Long-term
Complete Downtown Connector Greenway segment. Long-term
Complete reconstruction of Yellowstone Underpass. Mid-term
Ensure signage and wayfinding support clear and safe navigation through the 
park and trail system, include interpretative signage where appropriate, and 
incorporate wayfinding standards as needed.
On-going
Build trails, sidewalks, and pathways to parks with safe street crossings as part 
of the prioritization of pedestrian transportation plans. On-going
Implement sports complex improvements at identified locations, including 
spectator shade, lights, backstop upgrades, and ADA-compliant restrooms. Near-term
MEETING MORE 
NEEDS
Address the service gap south of Cheyenne Regional Airport and identify the 
need to fill this gap in the neighborhood in the future. Mid-term
Implement Sweetgrass (also known as South Cheyenne Community Park) 
master plan through construction and future development. Long-term
Implement Rotary Park master plan through construction and future 
development. Long-term
ACTION PLAN
Table 13: Capital Improvements Action Matrix
Kiwanis Park
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
Theme Action Item Priority 
Tier
MEETING MORE 
NEEDS Invest in the South side of Cheyenne. On-going
CELEBRATING 
COMMUNITY 
CULTURE AND 
PLACE
Create more art-infused spaces, such as nature storytelling walks and murals 
along the greenway. On-going
Update the Civic Center to provide modern amenities for performer needs and 
audience experiences, such as a green room, rigging/fly systems, concessions, 
and VIP seating.
Mid-term
ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP
Re-wild select city properties, such as stormwater management ponds, to 
promote functions that support climate adaptation. Civic Commons is an 
example of this in practice.
On-going
Evaluate the potential for adding artificial turf fields to increase use and 
decrease mowing maintenance. On-going
Implement Cheyenne Botanic Gardens master plan to support public 
education on local ecological systems, connect people with indoor and outdoor 
opportunities for peaceful enjoyment, and promote sustainable garden 
practices.
Long-term
117  |  IMPLEMENTATION     IMPLEMENTATION  |  118
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
GREATER CHEYENNE GREENWAY CAPITAL 
IMPROVEMENT PLAN
SOUTH CHEYENNE COMMUNITY PARK 
(SWEETGRASS) IMPROVEMENTS
A large community park in the southern portion 
of the City is a priority for the Parks Department. 
South Cheyenne Community Park (Sweetgrass), 
79+/- acres located east of Avenue C, south of 
Murray Road, west of Sweetgrass Drive and north 
of East Nation Road is intended to be dedicated to 
the City in the future. There is no park planning or 
construction costs intended by the developer and 
consideration should be made for planning of the 
new park in the next five years.
WHITNEY RANCH PARK AND GREENWAY
The Whitney Ranch development located north of 
Dell Range and west of Whitney Road is a quickly 
expanding Development with intent for a large 
number of residential units. It is unknown at this 
time what is intended for park land dedication 
but Whitney Ranch 4th Preliminary Plat is under 
review and provides for additional linear feet of 
greenway to be established.
THE KIWANIS COMMUNITY PARK 
IMPROVEMENTS
A large community park in the eastern portion of 
the City is a priority for the Parks Department and 
was a priority for the voters during the 2017 6th 
Penny Ballot Initiative. This project will enhance 
the user experience, improve water quality in Dry 
Creek and improve wildlife habitat. First projects 
to support this phase of project include the 
construction of wetlands, trails and educational 
signage within the Park boundaries.
COMPLETE GREENWAY SEGMENTS
The Greenway system is intended to provide 
recreational opportunity and transportation 
alternatives for pedestrians and bicyclists to 
parks, recreation, schools, employment and 
businesses.
W. CROW CREEK, MLK PARK THROUGH FE 
WARREN FREEDOM ELEMENTARY
Complete a new section of greenway to run from 
the existing south-end of Martin Luther King 
Park, north along Missile Drive, under the railroad 
crossing, under Westland Rd., and under I-25 to 
Freedom Elementary School/ FE Warren Air Force 
Base.
SUN VALLEY TO KIWANIS PARK GREENWAY 
CONNECTOR
Expand the Greenway from the existing Baldwin 
trailhead, through the Sun Valley Open Space 
heading east to the city owned parcels north of the 
UPRR into and through Kiwanis Park. 
SOUTH CHEYENNE MISCELLANEOUS GREENWAY 
CONNECTOR PROJECTS
Miscellaneous small Greenway connectors in South 
Cheyenne to include the South Park Connector, 
Cribbon Avenue at Johnson Junior High, Parsley 
Bridge Greenway to neighborhood and WAPA 
corridor, future Division Avenue and necessary 
developer cost shares.
ALLISON DRAW GREENWAY
The Allison Draw Greenway, maintained by the 
county, will connect users from the existing 
Greenway south of Arp Elementary and north 
of LCCC to the Niobrara Energy Park, providing 
a transportation alternative to these places of 
employment.
DOWNTOWN CONNECTOR GREENWAY 
Greenway improvements to be made along 
15th Street, project will be a portion of the 15th 
Street Rail Experience to make a safe downtown 
connection from Martin Luther King Park to 
Holliday Park.
RECONSTRUCTION OF YELLOWSTONE 
UNDERPASS
The existing Yellowstone Underpass is nearly 
30 years old and was built in the bottom for Dry 
Creek. The underpass floods whenever the creek 
rises above the level of the path, leaving water 
and slippery sediment which can be dangerous for 
users. The intent is to reconstruct the underpass in 
proximity to the existing underpass, but to locate 
it out of the creek bed and line it to prevent water 
from seeping from above.
Kiwanis Park
119  |  IMPLEMENTATION     IMPLEMENTATION  |  120
ACTION PLAN
OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
Theme Action Item Priority 
Tier
ACTIVE YEAR-
ROUND
Create a marketing, community outreach, and event coordination position 
within the department to have a centralized point of contact and consistency. Near-term
Increase communications and advertisement to the public to inform them of 
offerings through print, web, and social media content. Near-term
Implement a marketing plan for programs and offerings through the parks and 
recreation department. Near-term
Replace the parks and recreation website with an interactive tool for learning 
about what parks and recreation facilities offer. Near-term
Identify and streamline a citizen reporting tool to document needs, safety, 
concerns, issues, and ideas. Mid-term
Conduct a feasibility study for year-round ice rink operations. Mid-term
MEETING MORE 
NEEDS
Work towards regularly activating MLK Park to create more opportunities for 
community surveillance and grow positive interactions amongst all users. Near-term
Developing programs that are single day or no more than four sessions in 
length. On-going
Developing programs for youth during non-school days, winter break, spring 
break, and any other extended breaks. On-going
Expand summer camps with different areas of interest, such as outdoor 
recreation. On-going
More Saturday programs and the introduction of some Sunday programming 
to help expand capacity and family programming, especially in adult sports 
leagues.
On-going
Expanded senior programming to better serve the Baby Boomer generation and 
emphasize programs and services available in the evenings and on weekends, as 
well as those with a more active orientation.
On-going
Developing a baseline of programs that appeal to the family unit. On-going
Staggering the days and times of similar programs that are offered at multiple 
locations. On-going
Drop-in pay as you go fitness classes. Near-term
Table 14: Operational Improvements Action Matrix
OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
Theme Action Item Priority 
Tier
CELEBRATING 
COMMUNITY 
CULTURE AND 
PLACE
Incorporate informational and interpretative signage throughout park and 
recreation spaces. On-going
Cheyenne Lacrosse Team
121  |  IMPLEMENTATION     IMPLEMENTATION  |  122
ACTION PLAN
OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
Theme Action Item Priority 
Tier
ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP
Promote education and public interaction with a demonstration of a Shortgrass 
Prairie. Mid-term
Promote the restoration of native shortgrass prairies within open space 
lands by supporting the conversion of turf areas that do not support active 
recreational or functional uses.
On-going
Align seasonal mowing strategies in grassland areas to avoid disturbing ground 
nesting birds during critical nesting times. On-going
Promote pollinator gardens as a means to publicly demonstrate habitat 
connectivity. On-going
Integrate native plants for climate resilient design that can withstand drought 
and support water conservation. On-going
Expand and manage a tree inventory within all of Cheyenne's parks and public 
spaces in order to manage the long-term health and condition of the city's 
diverse tree canopy by identifying trees for removal and reforestation.
On-going
Support the development of Cheyenne's urban tree canopy through "Rooted in 
Cheyenne," and promote the efforts in stewardship they conduct. On-going
Maintain guidelines and best practices for tree planting in Cheyenne that:
 » emphasize native and low water-use species that will thrive in the local 
environment;
 » identify a diversity of species that will resist disease and insects, and;
 » identify irrigation sources to support a healthy urban tree canopy.
On-going
Support outdoor education programs and nature play connections to engage 
youth with the natural environment in park spaces. On-going
Support a culture of volunteerism and help keep parks, trails, and open spaces 
in a state of good repair throughout all four seasons by providing educational 
opportunities for trail users on how to become trail stewards (i.e., proper trail 
etiquette, adapting to seasonal changes, leave no trace principles, etc.).
On-going
Brand Cheyenne’s culture of volunteerism through marketing “Cheyenne 
Proud,” describing how it is a community of “people who do their part.” Near-term
Develop maintenance standards for the park system and areas within each 
individual park. Near-term
When possible, replace heavily manicured and cost inefficient landscaping with 
durable, low-maintenance, and native landscaping, particularly in areas where 
the spaces are unprogrammed and non-functioning.
On-going
OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
Theme Action Item Priority 
Tier
ALIGN AND 
EXPAND FUNDING
Develop a replacement schedule for playground structures, especially ones that 
are 20 + years old (Brimmer Ballfield, Junior League, Dry Creek Greenway, Mylar 
Park, North Cheyenne Community Park, Windmill and Cactus Park, Jaycee Park, 
Pointe Park West).
On-going
Define criteria for accepting new properties as parks and recreation resources, 
including the importance of future functions as public resources. Near-term
Have Public Works Department provide pavement management for parks. Mid-term
Greater Cheyenne Greenway
123  |  IMPLEMENTATION     IMPLEMENTATION  |  124
ACTION PLAN
Table 15: Policy Improvements Action Matrix
POLICY IMPROVEMENTS
Theme Action Item Priority 
Tier
ACTIVE YEAR-
ROUND
Develop an RFP for a needs assessment of existing indoor space along with 
identifying additional space requirements. Near-term
Identify partners and develop formal agreements for providing space and/or 
activities. On-going
Conduct an aquatics assessment to determine which areas of the city are 
under-served by access to swimming or water play facilities. Splash pads can be 
integrated into the park system to provide cooling and play benefits with less 
management and resource demands.
On-going
Create a comprehensive city trail master plan that expands the types and 
design of trails beyond the Greater Cheyenne Greenway to include dirt and soft 
surface options.
Mid-term 
to Long-
term
Update City code to require developers to include appropriate trails for 
recreation and pathway connectivity to parks and greenways. Mid-term
MEETING MORE 
NEEDS
Create a master plan for Whitney Ranch Park (north of Dell Rance and west 
of Whitney Road), including a greenway connection in parallel with future 
development.
Mid-term
Complete and implement a master plan for Belvoir Ranch to connect residents 
with a greater expanse of open space and future recreational opportunities that 
may include mountain biking, hiking, fishing, hunting, camping, horse riding, etc.
Mid-term 
to Long-
term
Partner with the school district to restore access to indoor facilities. Near-term
Redefine park service parameters in the UDC to match the updated 
classifications outlined in this plan. Near-Ter m
ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP
Work with the Arts Cheyenne on the procurement of public art in park spaces to 
ensure the artwork honors the diverse heritage and histories of the city. Near-term
Brand and advertise the Greater Cheyenne Greenway trail system by creating 
an iconic brand, improving signage and wayfinding, and educating the 
community and visitors on where to access it.
On-going
Establish a process to collect and analyze data that will be used to determine 
the most ecologically valuable open spaces. Mid-term
Implement urban forest management best practices to increase the health of 
the urban forest to reduce heat island effect, improve air quality, and provide 
wildlife habitats.
On-going
Educate the public about waterwise practices and water conservation. On-going
In partnership with Audubon, promote the conservation of critical habitats and 
the appreciation of birds and wildlife through education, science, advocacy, and 
habitat stewardship in Lions Park. 
On-going
POLICY IMPROVEMENTS
Theme Action Item Priority 
Tier
ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP
Implement a landscape conversion program by establishing a fund that 
supports the conservation of water-consuming landscape typologies into native 
ecologies.
Mid-term
Create a policy that allows unpaved parking lots on specific city properties. Near-term
Build upon the successes of the Greater Cheyenne Greenway volunteer 
structure to employ volunteer services and opportunities throughout the park 
system, as well.
On-going
Continue to recognize volunteerism with “Adopt-A-Spot” Signage. Mid-term
Reallocate budget for responsibilities that could be handled by other 
departments (parking lot maintenance, asphalt striping, winter maintenance) 
and review on an annual basis.
Near-term
ALIGN AND 
EXPAND FUNDING
Include park assets in the Annual Capital Improvement Plan. Near-term
Establish a funding mechanism for the renovation of assets. Near-term
Apply for grants through the Wyoming Recreation Grant Program and Trails 
Legacy Grant Program. On-going
Expand 5th penny funding for street and road maintenance to include Shared 
Use Trails. Near-term
Provide clear information that outlines the use of 6th penny money for each 
election cycle, including operations and maintenance of the greenway. Near-term
Develop sponsorship policy and package. Mid-term
Conduct regular impact studies to determine inflationary adjustment needed, 
aligned with growth projections, dwelling types and demand (single-family vs. 
multi-family), and other contributing land uses.
On-going
Implement a property disposal strategic plan. Mid-term
Develop an Adopt-a-Park/Playground/Trail program. Mid-term
Establish a Parks Foundation. Long-term
Establish a user fee program that differentiates between the city and non-city 
residents. Near-term
125  |  IMPLEMENTATION     IMPLEMENTATION  |  126
FUNDING METHODS AND SOURCES
FUNDING SOURCES
The City of Cheyenne has a variety of different 
funding opportunities available that can assist 
with the funding of the department and proposed 
projects. Funding sources typically fall within 
three different categories: Local Sources, State and 
National Sources, and Non-Tax Sources.
LOCAL SOURCES
Beyond the allocation of funds from the city’s 
general fund for ongoing programs, maintenance, 
or the passage of bond issues for capital projects, 
there are other taxing sources available. While 
all of these options have potential, staff will have 
to weigh the opportunity and benefit of pursuing 
them.
 » Capital Improvement Fund – Establishing a 
dedicated funding source for capital projects 
from either a percentage of existing tax 
revenues or through a tax increase established 
for that specific purpose.
 » Certificates of Participation (COP) – A form of 
lease-purchase, COPs are issued for debt periods 
similar to normal bonds, but the amenity itself 
serves as the collateral. This funding mechanism 
does not usually require voter approval and is 
not often utilized by communities in Wyoming.
 » Dedicated Tax – Voters approve a dedicated 
parks and recreation property tax millage to 
fund on-going operations and maintenance 
as well as capital improvements. This can be 
supported by property or sales tax.
 » Special Purpose Levy  – A property or sales tax 
levy that is for a specific purpose (community 
center, large park, event center, etc.). These 
levies are often for a limited time period.
 » Park Dedication Fee – For new housing, 
developers must either pay a per unit fee and/
or dedicate so much property for future park 
development. Most larger communities now have 
this as part of their development fee.
 » Transient Lodging Tax – This is a tax on hotel 
and motel rooms where a percentage tax is 
collected on each room night sold. This primarily 
funds the promotion of facilities and events. 
However, a portion may be available for funds 
for parks and recreation amenities that attract 
visitors (sports complexes, ice rinks, etc.).
 » Tax Increment Financing – TIF funding is 
utilized for redevelopment of areas by dedicating 
future tax dollars to improvement projects. This 
funding has been utilized for some larger capital 
projects such as a recreation center or events 
center.
 » User Fees – Increasingly cities are asking users 
to pay a higher percentage of maintenance and 
programs through the fees that are charged 
for these services. This can also include 
sponsorships, permit fees for vendors, cell tower 
leases, concessions agreements, and other fees.
 » Amenity Development – Recreation amenity 
development that is usually done through 
a partnership with a private or non-profit 
agency to build and operate amenities such as a 
wedding/event center. These are amenities that 
have the ability to generate a strong positive 
cash flow and are used to help fund other 
aspects of operation.
 » Special Districts – Special Districts are 
boards formed to deliver specific services 
to a specified boundary. These districts are 
governed by Wyoming State Statute, such as 
Cemetery Districts, Conservation Districts, Local 
Improvement Districts, Museum Districts, and 
more.
 » Partners – The City has partnerships with 
organizations that may have access to additional 
funding sources that should be leveraged.
STATE AND NATIONAL SOURCES
Many states have tax funding that is available 
through grant programs and other sources for 
certain programs and facilities.
 » Wyoming Recreation Grant Program
 »  Trails Legacy Grant Program
 » Wyoming Wildlife and Natural Resource Trust 
Fund
 » Land Water Conservation Fund
 »  Recreational Trails Grant
 » Next Level Trails
 » Community Development Block Grant
 »  Urban and Community Forestry Assistance 
Grant
 » Historic Preservation Fund
 » Safe Routes to Schools
NON-TAX SOURCES
 »  Parks Foundation 
 »  Grants 
 »  Fundraising 
 »  Naming Rights and Sponsorships
 »  Endowment Fund 
 »  Partnerships 
 »  Ground Lease of Property 
OTHER OPPORTUNITIES
 » Adopt-a-Playground – Primarily utilized as 
a clean-up effort, organizations commit to 
a 3-year period to assist with maintaining a 
playground. The organization must clean the 
playground three times per year, and a sign will 
be placed commemorating the assistance.
 » Adopt-a-Trail Programs – These are 
typically small-grant programs that fund new 
construction, repair or renovation, maps, trail 
brochures, and facilities (bike racks, picnic areas, 
birding equipment, etc.), as well as providing 
maintenance support.
 » Adopt-a-Park Programs – These are small-
grant programs that fund new construction 
and provide maintenance support. Adopt-A-
Park programs can also take the form of cash 
contributions in the range of $1,000 to $5,000 
per acre to cover operational costs.
 » Operational Partnerships  – Partnerships are 
operational funding sources formed from two 
separate agencies, such as two government 
entities, a non-profit and a public agency, or 
a private business and a public agency. Two 
partners jointly share risk, operational costs, 
responsibilities, and asset management based on 
the strengths of each partner.
Pointe Park
127  |  IMPLEMENTATION
DW LEGACY DESIGN
®
Legacy Design is the defining element of our practice. It is our 
commitment to an elevated level of design inquiry to arrive at the 
optimal solutions for clients. The process ensures that our projects 
reflect the critical issues facing the built environment and that they 
deliver measurable benefit to clients and communities. It is the 
foundation of the firm’s workshop culture and guides all projects.
www.designworkshop.com
Greater Cheyenne Greenway
    ii
APPENDIX A 
EXISTING CONDITIONS
 » Appendix A.1 Existing Inventory and Classifications
 » Appendix A.2 Community Profile Summary
 » Appendix A.3 Cheyenne Market Trends Report
 » Appendix A.4 Recreation Trends Report
 » Appendix A.5 Previous Plans Review
6
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  21  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix A.1  |   EXISTING INVENTORY AND CLASSIFICATIONS
Table 2 Trail System Totals
TRAIL SYSTEM TOTALS    
Trail Category Miles (Length) Number of Trails
Greenway 46.92 150
Shared Use Trail 11. 50 40
Total 58 Miles 190
CITY OF CHEYENNE PARK CLASSIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS
The following table was developed based on the City of Cheyenne’s 2006 Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Classifications and Standards and incorporates recommendations from the Design Workshop team.
Table 3 Parkland Classifications and Standards
SIZE PURPOSE AND FUNCTION SITE CHARACTERISTICS SERVICE AREA ACCESS
Community Park
30+ acres
(Previous 
Plan: 25-
100)
Larger parks that serve the 
entire community are distributed 
throughout urban areas. Includes 
community-wide activities 
that serve a broad purpose, 
self-directed and programmed 
activities. It may include sports 
fields, courts, multipurpose 
playground equipment, large 
play structures, fitness trails, 
and picnic shelters. May include 
waterbodies, natural features, 
and gardens.
The site should have 
minimal topography, 
50% flat or level areas 
with a slope of 5% 
or less to support 
passive and active 
recreational activities, 
active sports fields and 
events like festivals and 
performances.
Might have a mixture of 
maintained and natural 
areas.
Serve homes 
within 1 mile 
walk of the park.
In Urban areas that typically 
have access from an 
arterial street and are easily 
accessible by car, bicycle, or 
foot. Access to the greenway 
trail system and public transit 
is desirable.
Off-street parking should 
be provided but may be 
supported by on-street 
parking.
Neighborhood Park
2-30 acres
(Previous 
Plan: 5 and 
20)
Intended to serve residential 
neighborhoods in developed 
areas. Should provide active and 
passive recreation for short daily 
leisure periods for neighbors 
of all ages to gather, socialize, 
and play. May include leisure 
activities, small gathering spaces, 
shade pavilion, playground, 
looped trails, court/field games, 
skating, and sports play.
Typically, manicured 
landscaping with walking 
surfaces can withstand 
the impacts of heavy 
foot traffic. Portions of 
the site should have 
gentle topography to 
accommodate play 
equipment, creative play 
areas, and paved areas 
for team sports.
Serve homes 
within ½ mile 
walk of the park. 
Are centrally located within 
residential areas. Accessible 
to the neighborhood 
population with safe walking 
and bicycle access and 
free of major highways and 
railroads. Access to pathways, 
sidewalks, and trails is ideal. 
On-street parking is typically 
adequate.
Mini Park
2 acres or 
less 
Smaller parks intended to serve 
a limited area or neighborhood. 
Often provide visual relief within 
the urban landscape for the 
homes. Typically, has limited 
amenities but may include 
playground equipment, a small 
shade pavilion, park benches, and 
open turf areas for informal play. 
If space allows, mini parks may 
include a sports court.
Mini parks might 
have active or passive 
opportunities and 
addresses a specific 
neighborhood need.
Serve homes 
within ¼ mile 
walk of the park.
Centrally located within 
neighborhoods, along 
collector streets, along trails 
or drainage corridors, or in 
urban centers. Connected via 
sidewalks and pathways to 
residences. On street parking 
is adequate.
MEMO: EXISTING INVENTORY AND CLASSIFICATIONS
To: City of Cheyenne: Jeanie Anderson-Shrednik
From: Design Workshop: Anna Laybourn, Ashley Hejtmanek, Jennifer Pintar
Date: December 16, 2024
Project Name: Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan
Project #: 7172
Subject:  Parkland Inventory and Classifications
The following information details the parks and recreation inventory, acres, park categories and parkland classification 
standards managed/owned by the City of Cheyenne’s Parks Division.
The parkland inventory is grouped into seven categories: Community, Neighborhood, Mini, Sports Complex, Open 
Space, Greenway Corridor, and Undeveloped (Table 1). The categories are based on the existing 2015 Parks and 
Recreation Master Plan and characteristics of the park, such as size, amenities offered, access, and intended duration of 
use. Additional inventory not included in the park acres or level of service include cemeteries, storm detention areas, and 
visual resources, as they do not offer recreational opportunities or provide public access. Golf courses are also excluded 
since they are of a very niche specialized use.
Cheyenne’s total park acreage is approximately 1,087 acres, with 633 acres of developed parkland and 412 acres of 
natural land (Table 1). The city also has an extensive greenway network of 47 miles and an additional 12 miles of shared-
use trails (Table 2).
Table 1 Park System Totals
PARK SYSTEM TOTALS    
Park Category Acres Number of Properties
Community 355.69 5
Neighborhood 99.52 11
Mini 8.48 7
Sports Complex 168.98 8
Open Space 266.40 6
Greenway Corridor 145.46 21
Undeveloped 42.88 3
Total 1,087 Acres 61
Properties with no recreational opportunities or public access
Cemetery 60.04 5
Golf Course 204.13 2
Storm Detention Area 11.1 5
Visual Resource 50.2 55
Landscape Architecture
Planning
Urban Design
Strategic Services
Environmental Graphic Design
22860 Two Rivers Road #1
Basalt, Colorado 81621
970.925.8354
designworkshop.com
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  43  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Sports Complex
Varies
Provides specialized active 
recreation opportunities for 
the entire community. Offers 
programmed or self-directed 
sports including baseball, 
softball, soccer, tennis, hockey, 
and skateboarding. Sports 
complexes often fill service 
gaps for specialized sports 
facilities. Might offer additional 
amenities like play equipment, 
benches, greenway access, and 
concessions. 
Varies based on the 
requirements of the park’s 
purpose. The location 
of sports complex 
properties should be 
carefully planned to 
ensure access, traffic 
control, and lighting 
and noise issues do 
not negatively impact 
neighborhoods.
Entire 
Community
Typically have access from 
an arterial or collector street. 
Access to the greenway trail 
system and public transit is 
desirable. Parking should be 
provided off-street.
Open Space
Varies
Open space sites protect 
significant natural areas and 
resources. These areas are 
typically maintained naturally 
and help preserve views, provide 
wildlife sanctuaries, and preserve 
lands. May support opportunities 
for passive recreation through 
recreational trails, educational 
signage, nature art, and nature 
play elements. Depending on site 
conditions, public access may be 
limited.
Natural land areas are 
designated to protect 
natural resources or 
environmentally sensitive 
areas. These areas are 
typically unsuitable for 
development but provide 
other potential benefits.
City or regional 
draw
Varies. May include access to 
the greenway and trail system. 
May support off-street parking.
Greenway Corridor
Varies
Greenway corridors are 
areas with direct access to 
the greenway trail system. 
May provide space for park-
like recreation and place-
making such as public art, and 
interpretive signage.
Greenways corridors are 
typically maintained as 
open space.
Not Applicable
Located adjacent to the 
greenway trail system 
that provides multi-modal 
recreational opportunities for 
commuters and recreational 
users.
Undeveloped
Varies Dedicated park space that will be 
reclassified as planning evolves. 
Varies. Properties 
may include natural 
or maintained areas. 
Undeveloped properties 
will be reclassified as 
their planning evolves.
Community 
Wide  
CITY OF CHEYENNE PARK INVENTORY ORGANIZED BY CATEGORY
The following table includes the full list of Cheyenne’s parkland inventory. Park Categories include Community, 
Neighborhood, Mini, Sports Complex, Open Space, Cemetery, Golf Course, Undeveloped, Greenway Corridor, Storm 
Detention Area, and Visual Resource. 
Table 4 Park Inventory
CHEYENNE PARK INVENTORY    
Park Name Park Category Acres
Cahill Park Community 32.82
David R. Romero South Cheyenne Community Park Community 37.04
Holliday Park Community 39.53
Lions Park Community 129.17
North Cheyenne Community Park Community 117.13
Highlands Park Neighborhood 2.80
Jaycee Park Neighborhood 2.16
Lincoln Park Neighborhood 1.94
Martin Luther King Jr. Park Neighborhood 10.25
Mylar Park Neighborhood 26.03
Optimist Park Neighborhood 2.67
Pointe Park Neighborhood 16.27
Saddle Ridge Park Neighborhood 13.59
Smalley Park Neighborhood 4.82
Sun Valley Park Neighborhood 16.14
United Nations Park Neighborhood 2.85
Abbott Park Mini Park 0.40
Bar X Park Mini Park 2.29
Depot Plaza Mini Park 1.57
Leo Pando Park Mini Park 2.22
Moore Park Mini Park 0.80
Western Hills Park Mini Park 0.84
Windmill/Cactus Park Mini Park 0.37
Brimmer Park Sports Complex 33.64
Converse Softball Complex Sports Complex 18.97
Dutcher Field Sports Complex 30.06
Ice & Events Center Sports Complex 13.19
Junior League Complex Sports Complex 30.28
Pioneer Park Sports Complex 12.67
Powers Field Sports Complex 23.03
VFW Pride Park Sports Complex 7.14
Cahill Park Open Space Area Open Space 45.29
Centennial Park Open Space 8.20
Dry Creek Parkway Open Space 40.51
Kiwanis Park Open Space 104.23
Lake Absarraca Recreation Area Open Space 19.38
Sun Valley Open Space Open Space 48.79
Bethel Cemetery Cemetery 12.72
Loof Cemetery Cemetery 1.17
Jewish Cemetery Cemetery 2.20
Lakeview Cemetery Cemetery 25.50
Olivet Cemetery Cemetery 18.46
Airport Golf Course Golf Course 119.74
Prairie View Golf Course Golf Course 84.39
Future Greenway Parcels Undeveloped 22.20
Rotary Park Undeveloped 9.93
Waterford Park Undeveloped 10.83
Converse Ave North Greenway Corridor 5.76
Converse Ave South Greenway Corridor 1.29
Crow Creek 1 Greenway Corridor 4.06
Crow Creek 2 Greenway Corridor 3.35
Appendix A.1  |   EXISTING INVENTORY AND CLASSIFICATIONS
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  65  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Crow Creek 3 Greenway Corridor 0.76
Crow Creek 4 Greenway Corridor 11.14
Dakota Crossing Connector Greenway Corridor 0.09
Dell Range Blvd Greenway Corridor 2.29
Dry Creek 1 Greenway Corridor 7.06
Dry Creek 2 Greenway Corridor 17.95
Dry Creek 3 Greenway Corridor 6.84
Education & Manewal Greenway Corridor 0.62
Evans Ave Greenway Corridor 0.51
Hr Ranch Rd 1 Greenway Corridor 2.42
Hr Ranch Rd 2 Greenway Corridor 7.99
Masonway Greenway Corridor 0.39
Pointe Greenway Corridor 2.50
Powderhouse Greenway Corridor 0.45
Saddle Ridge 1 Greenway Corridor 1.52
Sheridan St Connector Greenway Corridor 0.16
South Link Greenway Corridor 4.57
South Park Greenway Corridor 0.96
Storey Blvd Greenway Corridor 12.39
Sun Valley 1 Greenway Corridor 4.88
Sun Valley 2 Greenway Corridor 13.68
Sun Valley 3 Greenway Corridor 6.26
Sun Valley 4 Greenway Corridor 2.40
Sun Valley 5 Greenway Corridor 0.85
Us 30 Greenway Corridor 2.54
US 30 - Hayes to Whitney Greenway Corridor 2.55
Wapa Corridor Greenway Corridor 13.75
Whitney Rd Greenway Corridor 1.89
Windmill Rd Greenway Corridor 1.57
Chukker Ridge Storm Detention Area 1.08
Civic Commons Storm Detention Area 1.69
Council Bluffs Storm Detention Area 1.86
Porcupine Park Storm Detention Area 0.70
Western Hills Detention Pond Storm Detention Area 5.78
12th St & Sun Valley Visual Resource 0.23
12th St. Visual Resource 0.30
19th & Albany Visual Resource 0.03
19th St Parkway Visual Resource 1.46
20th/21st/Rayor Triangle Visual Resource 0.18
5th & Reed Triangle Visual Resource 0.06
8th Ave Median Visual Resource 0.10
Airport Fountain Park Visual Resource 0.09
Alexander & Dunn Triangle Visual Resource 0.18
Ames & 27th Triangle Visual Resource 0.24
Big Sky Park Visual Resource 1.84
Bill Dubois Memorial Park Visual Resource 0.23
Buck Rhone Park Visual Resource 0.09
Carey Ave Triangles - Yankee Visual Resource 0.07
Carey Ave Triangles 1 Visual Resource 0.08
Carey Ave Triangles 2 Visual Resource 0.25
Carey Ave Triangles 3 Visual Resource 0.09
Carey Ave Triangles 4 Visual Resource 0.12
Central Ave Median Visual Resource 0.22
Converse Ave Visual Resource 1.20
Converse Ave Visual Resource 1.25
Converse Roundabout Visual Resource 3.48
Crestridge Visual Resource 0.39
Cribbon & Country Club Triangle Visual Resource 0.05
Crow Creek Park Visual Resource 0.72
Dennis Shuck Memorial Park Visual Resource 0.67
Essex Dr Island Visual Resource 0.06
Henderson & Pershing Visual Resource 0.05
Holly Ct Island Visual Resource 0.25
Hynds Blvd Visual Resource 1.87
Laurel & Spruce Triangle Visual Resource 0.06
Logan & Nationway Triangles Visual Resource 2.89
Missile & Lincolnway Visual Resource 0.13
Norris Park Visual Resource 2.70
Newton Dr Island Visual Resource 0.11
O’neil & 31st St Triangle Visual Resource 0.06
Pershing & Hugur Triangle Visual Resource 0.03
Randall Triangles Visual Resource 0.54
Randall Triangles -- Gilchrist Lamp Visual Resource 0.03
Randall Triangles - Buffalo Soldier Visual Resource 0.80
Randall Triangles - Burns Visual Resource 0.40
Randall Triangles - Gateway Visual Resource 0.82
Rodeo Ave Visual Resource 0.68
Rue Terre Visual Resource 0.71
Snyder & 30th St Triangle Visual Resource 0.04
Snyder & Foyer Triangle Visual Resource 0.11
Storey Blvd Visual Resource 9.46
Teton Ct Visual Resource 0.40
Timberline Park Visual Resource 0.88
Vandehei Ave Visual Resource 1.07
Vandehei Roundabouts Visual Resource 0.80
W. Lincolnway Visual Resource 3.92
W. Lincolnway Medians Visual Resource 0.59
W. Lincolnway Streetscape Visual Resource 4.32
Windmill South Visual Resource 2.82
Appendix A.1  |   EXISTING INVENTORY AND CLASSIFICATIONS
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  87  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Figure 2 Park Classification MapFigure 1 Park Inventory Map
Appendix A.1  |   EXISTING INVENTORY AND CLASSIFICATIONS
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  109  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix A.2  |  COMMUNITY PROFILE SUMMARY
          MEMO: COMMUNITY PROFILE SUMMARY
To: City of Cheyenne: Jeanie Anderson-Shrednik 
From: Design Workshop: Anna Laybourn, Ashley Hejtmanek, Jennifer 
Pintar
Date: March 8, 2024
Project Name: Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan
Project #: 7172
Subject:  Community Profile Summary
The following community profile summary provides a baseline assessment of currently available demographic, 
economic, and housing conditions for the Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan. It examines the demographic 
composition of the City of Cheyenne and surrounding areas using assessments from the Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Planning Organization (MPO) Boundary. The MPO Boundary helps assess demographics for communities outside the 
city boundary that might utilize Cheyenne’s parklands and recreational amenities. This report will refer to the MPO 
boundary as the Cheyenne service area. Several sources were used for the assessments, including the Economic 
Analysis Division, ESRI Business Analyst and the US Census.
POPULATION AND GROWTH PROJECTIONS
Cheyenne is the largest city in Laramie County and is within the state of Wyoming. The Cheyenne service area (also 
referred to as the MPO Boundary) population in 2023 is 90,405 (88% of Laramie County), which is a slight increase (1 1%) 
since 2010 (Figure 1). The city experienced relatively high growth from 2010-2020 (0.84%) and is expected to slow over 
the next five years with an expected annual growth rate of 0.28%1.
Most of the population density is centered within the Cheyenne city limits, with the highest density east of downtown 
and north of Cheyenne Regional Airport, with over 4059 people per square mile (Figure 2). Much of the city has between 
1027 and 4059 people per square mile. Other density areas outside the city limits include South Greeley and Francis 
E Warren Air Force Base. Except for South Greely, the southern portions of the city limits and the service area are less 
than 12 people per square mile.
1-1  Esri Demographics data is updated in July of each year.
Landscape Architecture  
Planning
Urban Design
Strategic Services
Environmental Graphic Design
22860 Two Rivers Road #1
Basalt, Colorado 81621
970.925.8354
designworkshop.com
TOTAL 
POPULATION 
(2010)
TOTAL 
POPULATION 
(2023)
PERCENT 
CHANGE  
(2010-2023)
POPULATION DENSITY 2023 
(PER SQ MI)
Cheyenne Service Area 81,489 90,405 11% 425.1
Laramie County 91,738 102,453 12% 38.1
Wyoming 563,626 578,766 3% 6.0
Figure 1 Population Trends, 2010-2028. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst
2023 Cheyenne Service Area Key 2023 Cheyenne Service Area Key Facts
• Population (2023): 90,405
• Median Age: 38.7
• Median Household Income: $59,994
• Household Income Less than $35,000: 28%
• Unemployment Rate: 2.0%
• Median Household Size: 2.33
• Percentage Renter Occupied: 29.5
Figure 2 2023 Population Density Map. Source: ESRI Demographics
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  1211  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix A.2  |  COMMUNITY PROFILE SUMMARY
Figure 3 illustrates the population growth projections for the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, and Wyoming. The 
data used for the growth projections are from the Wyoming Department of Administration and Information, Economic 
Analysis Division. Therefore, the growth projections represent set geographic boundaries and do not include the 
Cheyenne Service Area (MPO boundary). According to the data retrieved from the Economic Analysis Division, the City 
of Cheyenne’s 2023 estimated population is 66,3802. Between 2010 and 2023, Cheyenne experienced slow growth from 
59,466 to 66,380, with less than one percent (0.89%) annual growth rate. Growth is expected to increase slightly over the 
next seven years, reaching a population of 70,258 by 2030. From 2023 to 2040, the population is predicted to see growth 
patterns similar to those in 2030, with a 0.58% annual growth rate.
The annual growth rate estimated for Laramie County is similar to the City of Cheyenne forecasts, with only a 0.90% 
increase from 2010-2023 and a 0.58% change from 2023 to 2040. The population projections closely align with the City 
of Cheyenne as most of the county’s population resides within the city. Wyoming’s estimated growth projections are 
significantly lower than those for the city and county. The state is only predicted to have a 0.32% annual growth rate from 
2023 to 2024.
Discussions have occurred regarding the annexation of denser development within the urbanized unincorporated area 
surrounding the City of Cheyenne. This includes Francis E. Warren Air Force Base and the South Cheyenne Water and 
Sewer District. In the event these lands are annexed in whole or in part, growth rates could be skewed. However, the 
regional population growth rate would remain constant as population numbers shift from the incorporated county to 
the city. Francis E. Warren Air Force Base represents approximately 2,863 persons in 20203 and approximately 2,907 
persons projected for 20234. Using the South Cheyenne Water and Sewer District as a boundary, this area represents 
approximately 10,465 persons in 20235. It is important to note that the population data for the Air Force Base and South 
Cheyenne Water and Sewer District are estimates, as ESRI Demographics calculates the population using custom 
boundaries.
COMMUNITY  2010 
POPULATION
2023 
POPULATION 
FORECAST
2010-2023 
POPULATION: 
ANNUAL 
GROWTH 
RATE
2030 
POPULATION 
FORECAST
2040 
POPULATION 
FORECAST
2023-2040 
POPULATION: 
ANNUAL 
GROWTH 
RATE
City of 
Cheyenne 59,466 66,380 0.89% 70,258 72,900 0.58%
Laramie County 91,738 102,510 0.90% 108,500 112, 58 0 0.58%
Wyoming 563,626 583,290 0.27% 597,260 614,820 0.32%
Figure 3 Population Forecasts, 2010-2040. Source: Economic Analysis Division
AGE DISTRIBUTION
The median age in the service area for 2023 is 38.7, which is consistent with Laramie County (38.1) and Wyoming (37.6) 
(Figure 4). Populations aged 25-44 and 55-54 contain the largest age distribution percentage. These groups account 
for almost 40% of the population. Alternatively, the Cheyenne service area has a relatively low concentration of younger 
residents under 15 and older residents over 75. However, with almost 24% of the population over 55, the number of older 
residents will increase.
Figure 5 shows the over-65 dependency ratio, estimated by dividing senior populations (65 and older) by the working 
population (18-64). Alternatively, under-18 dependency is calculated by dividing populations under 18 by the working 
population. Higher ratios indicate higher levels of dependency. These ratios help understand the city’s age structure. 
The Cheyenne service area is consistent with the county and state’s dependency ratios.
1-2  Economic Analysis Division. Population Forecasts for Wyoming, Counties, Cities, and Towns for 2019-2040. http://eadiv.state.wy.us/pop/wyc&sc40.htm
1-3  U.S. Census Bureau, 2020
1-4  Esri Demographics, U.S. Census Bureau
1-5  Ibid
MEDIAN AGE 
(YEARS)
OVER 65 
DEPENDENCY 
RATIO
UNDER 18 
DEPENDENCY 
RATIO
Cheyenne Service Area 38.7 30.6 38.3
Laramie County 39.4 31.1 38.1
Wyoming 39.0 31 37.6
Figure 4 Age Trends, 2023. Source ESRI, Business Analyst
Figure 5 Percent Age Distribution, 2023. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst
RACIAL DISTRIBUTION
The Cheyenne service area in 2023 is predominantly white, with 78.7% of residents identifying as such (Figure 6). 
Other races and ethnicities make up a small portion of the population. Seventeen percent (17%) of residents identify as 
Hispanic origin, followed by Black or African American (2.6%), Asian (1.4%), American Indian/Alaskan Native (1.2%), and 
Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander below 1%. Other residents identify as multi-racial/multi-ethnic (1 1.1%) or identify 
as some other racial/ethnic groups (4.9%).
The ESRI Diversity Index measures the diversity, including race and ethnicity – from 0 (no diversity) to 100 (complete 
diversity). When the population of an area is closer to 100, it indicates a more balanced distribution of races and 
ethnicities. The Cheyenne service area for 2023 is 54.4 on the Diversity Index scale, with the state rating lower at 41.8 
(Figure 7). ESRI projects that the diversity index for the service area will slightly increase to 55.9 by 2028.
Figure 6 Racial Distribution, 2023. Source: Esri, Business Analyst

 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  1413  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix A.2  |  COMMUNITY PROFILE SUMMARY
Figure 7 Diversity Index, 2023. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst
EDUCATION
Most residents within the Cheyenne service area over the age of 25 have a high school education or higher, with 31.4% 
having a Bachelor’s or Graduate/Professional degree. This is slightly higher than the state (29.8%)6. Figure 8 displays the 
percentage of the level of education for residents over 25 in 2023.
     
 
Figure 8 Education Attainment, 2023. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst
EMPLOYMENT AND WORKFORCE PROFILE
Cheyenne Service Area has a low unemployment rate (2.0%), similar to Wyoming’s 2.7% (Figure 9). This is consistent 
with the percentage of people with education levels and the percentage of the population that is youth and seniors. 
Almost half of the residents employed in the Cheyenne Service Area (43.2%) work in the services industry (Figure 
10). Other sectors with a considerable number of workers include retail trade (16.1%), public administration (12.4%), 
transportation/ utilities (8.2%) and construction (7.2%). Other sectors like finance/insurance/real estate, manufacturing, 
information, and agriculture/mining are also concentrated within the service area, although the percentages are 
below 5%. Additionally, the ESRI data might not consider employment for residents on the Francis E Warren Air Force 
Base. Notably, 57.5% of the employee population are Professional Office Workers, which includes Management/
Business/Financial, Professional, Sales, and Administrative Support (Figure 1 1). Additionally, 27.3% of residents work in 
manufacturing, construction, farming, forestry, fishing, extraction, installation, and other labor occupations.
1-6  Esri Demographics
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE (2023)
  Cheyenne Service Area Wyoming
Unemployment Rate Population 16+ 2.0% 2.7%
Figure 9 Unemployment Rates, 2023. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst
Figure 10 Employment by Industry, 2023. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst
EMPLOYMENT BY OCCUPATION (POPULATION 16+)
  Cheyenne Service Area
Professional Office Worker 57.5%
Physical Labor, Industrial, Farming, 
Manufacturing Worker 27.3%
Professional 22.6%
Services 15.3%
Management/Business/Financial 14.9%
Administrative Support 13.0%
Transportation/Material Moving 12.3%
Sales 6.9%
Construction/Extraction 5.9%
Installation/Maintenance/Repair 5.4%
Production 3.2%
Farming/Forestry/Fishing 0.4%
Figure 11 Employment by Occupation, 2023. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst

 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  1615  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix A.2  |  COMMUNITY PROFILE SUMMARY
HOUSEHOLD INCOME
The Cheyenne service area’s median household income (MHI) is currently $59,994, which is slightly lower than the 
county’s ($61,858) and state’s median ($65,783) (Figure 12). The household income is estimated to increase over the 
next five years, bringing the MHI to $65,745 by 2028. The growth percentage is slightly lower than Wyoming’s household 
income growth at 9.59%. Looking at the distribution of household income, 72% of residents in the service area make 
less than $100,000, and 28% make less than $35,000 (Figure 13). 
INCOME
    Cheyenne Service 
Area
Laramie 
County Wyoming
Median Household 
Income (MHI)
2023 $59,994 $61,858 $65,783
2028 $65,745 $68,495 $72,813
% Change 9.59% 10.73% 10.69%
Per Capita Income
2023 $34,389 $34,818 $37,527
2028 $38,851 $39,478 $42,451
% Change 12.98% 13.38% 13.12%
Figure 12 Median and Per Capita Income, 2023 & 2028. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst
2023 HOUSEHOLD INCOME DISTRIBUTION
  Cheyenne Service 
Area Wyoming
Less than $15,000 8.9% 9.60%
$15,000 - $24,999 8.8% 7.90%
$25,000 - $34,999 10.3% 8.70%
$35,000 - $49,999 13.1% 10.80%
$50,000 - $74,999 17.8% 18.20%
$75,000 - $99,999 13.1% 14.70%
$100,000 - $149,999 18.4% 16.50%
$150,000 - $199,999 5.9% 7.40%
$200,000 or greater 3.6% 6.20%
Average Household 
Income $81,183 $90,928
Figure 13 Income Distribution, 2023. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst
Figure 14 looks at the median households by income for the Cheyenne service area. Areas with a median household 
income over $100,000 are the northern section of the map within the Cheyenne city limits and the eastern portion of the 
MPO Boundary. Most areas outside the city limits have a median household income between $70,000 and $100,000. 
Most of the central parts of the city limits have a median household income between $30,000 and $70,000. Areas with 
a median household income under $30,000 include the Cheyenne Regional Airport and the southwestern portion of the 
city just north of Union Pacific railroad station, including parts of the expanded downtown area. This area also includes 
Martin Luther King Jr. Park, which was highlighted in the initial focus group meetings as part of the city experiencing 
homelessness.
HOUSEHOLDS & GROWTH PROJECTIONS
The Cheyenne service area serves around 38,172 households today (2023), up from 33,681 in 2010 (Figure 15). The 
service area’s projected annual household growth rate between 2023 and 2028 is less than one percent (0.64%), 
consistent with Wyoming (0.33%) (Figure 16). This is not unexpected, given the estimated increase in population over the 
next five years. The 2023 average household size in the Cheyenne service area is 2.33 individuals (Figure 15). This is in 
line with the population being primarily composed of adults, with a median age of 38.7.
A large portion of the population owns their own home. Of the occupied homes in the Cheyenne service area, 64.3% are 
owner-occupied, 29.5% are renter-occupied, and the remaining 6.2% are vacant housing (Figure 17). Homeownership 
within the service area has steadily increased from 2010 to 2023 and is projected to increase slightly by 2028 (56.4%). 
This is important to long-term housing within the study area as residents might be more likely to remain a part of the 
community and contribute to its growth. When residents are able to purchase a home, they are less likely to be affected 
by variable rental rates or other market forces.
Figure 14 Median Households by Income. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  1817  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix A.2  |  COMMUNITY PROFILE SUMMARY
CHEYENNE SERVICE AREA HOUSEHOLD SUMMARY
Total Households Average Household Size
2010 33,681 2.37
2020 36,973 2.36
2023 38,172 2.33
2028 39,406 2.29
Figure 15 Households Trends, 2010-2028. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst
ANNUAL HOUSEHOLD GROWTH RATE
Cheyenne Service 
Area Wyoming
2023-2028 0.64% 0.33%
Figure 16 2023-2028 Annual Household Growth Rate. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst
Figure 17 Total Housing Units, Owner and Renter Occupied. Source: ESRI, Business Analyst
SOURCES:
Economic Analysis Division, Wyoming Department of Administration & Information. Population Forecasts for Wyoming, 
Counties, Cities, and Towns for 2019-2040 Estimates and Projections (state.wy.us)
ESRI. Community Profile 2023, Retrieved from ESRI Business Analyst. Source Data
ESRI. Demographic and Income Profile. Retrieved from ESRI Business Analyst. Source Data
ESRI forecasts for 2023 and 2028. U.S. Census Bureau 2000 and 2010 decennial Census data converted by ESRI into 
2020 geography.
U.S. Census TIGER 2021 (Census Tract, Laramie County, Wyoming).
U.S. Census Bureau, 2020. Population Totals, Census Tract, Laramie County, Wyoming. 
Appendix A.3  |  BALLARD*KING CHEYENNE MARKET REPORT
 
 
 
1 | Page  
Section I – Demographic Analysis 
 
Ballard*King & Associates (B*K) has been contracted by Design Workshop to complete a market 
assessment for Cheyenne, Wyoming for a Parks and Recreation Master Plan.   The first step to 
complete this scope of work is to determine service areas for analysis and recreation/leisure 
activities. 
 
The following is a summary of the demographic characteristics within  areas identified as the 
Primary and Secondary Service Areas.  The Primary Service Area is the city limits of Cheyenne.  
The Secondary Service Area is the Metropolitan Planning Organization boundary.     
 
B*K accesses demographic information from Environmental Systems Research Institute (ESRI) 
who utilizes 2020 Census data and their demographers for 2023- 2028 projections.  In addition to 
demographics, ESRI also provides data on housing, recreation,  and entertainment spending and 
adult participation in activities.  B*K also uses information produced by the National Sporting 
Goods Association (NSGA) to overlay onto the demographic profile to determine potential 
participation in various activities.   
 
Service Areas:   
The information provided includes the basic demographics and data for the Primary and Secondary 
Service Area with comparison data for the State of Wyoming and the United States.   
 
The Primary Service Area is defined as the distance people will travel on a regular basis (a 
minimum of once a week) to utilize recreation facilities.  Use by individuals outside of this area 
will be much more limited and will focus more on special activities or events.   
 
Service areas can flex or contract based upon a facility’s proximity to major thoroughfares.  Other 
factors impacting the use as it relates to driving distance are the presence of alternative service 
providers in the service area.  Alternative service prov iders can influence participation, 
membership, daily admissions and the associated penetration rates for programs and services. 
 
Service areas can vary in size with the types of components in the facility.   
 
  
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  2019  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
2 | Page  
Service Area Map 
 
 
• Green Boundary – City of Cheyenne - Primary Service Area 
• Blue Boundary – Secondary Service Area 
 
 
 
3 | Page  
Infographic 
 
 
 
Households by Income comparison uses the Primary Service Area and compares it to Larimer 
County.  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  2221  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
4 | Page  
Demographic Summary  
 
 Primary Service Area Secondary Service Area 
Population:   
2020 Census 65,1710F
1 88,6331F
2 
2023 Estimate 66,426 90,405 
2028 Estimate 67,149 91,675 
Households:   
2020 Census 28,198 36,973 
2023 Estimate 29,080 38,172 
2028 Estimate 29,927 39,406 
Families:   
2020 Census 16,288 22,558 
2023 Estimate 16,719 23,075 
2028 Estimate 17,115 23,709 
Average Household Size:   
2020 Census   
2023 Estimate 2.26 2.33 
2028 Estimate 2.22 2.29 
Ethnicity (2023 Estimate):    
Hispanic 16.8% 17.0% 
White 79.2% 78.7% 
Black 2.6% 2.6% 
American Indian 1.2% 1.2% 
Asian 1.4% 1.4% 
Pacific Islander 0.2% 0.2% 
Other 4.6% 4.9% 
Multiple 10.9% 11.1% 
Median Age:   
2020 Census 37.0 36.2 
2023 Estimate 39.4 38.7 
2028 Estimate 40.0 39.4 
Median Income:   
2023 Estimate $60,519 $59,994 
2028 Estimate $66,420 $65,745 
 
  
 
1 From the 2010-2020 Census, the Primary Service Area experienced a 0.8% increase in population. 
2 From the 2010-2020 Census, the Secondary Service Area experienced a 0.8% increase in population. 
 
 
 
5 | Page  
Age and Income:  The median age and household income levels are compared  with the national 
number as both of these factors are secondary determiners of participation in recreation activities.  
The lower the median age, the higher the participation rates are for most activities.  The level of 
participation also increases as the median income level goes up. 
 
Table A – Median Age: 
 
 2020 Census 2023 Projection 2028 Projection 
Primary Service Area 37.0 39.4 40.0 
Secondary Service Area 36.2 38.7 39.4 
State of Wyoming 36.8 39.0 39.8 
National 37.1 39.1 39.8 
 
Chart A – Median Age: 
 
 
The median age in the Primary  and Secondary Service Area is similar  to the State of Wyoming 
and the National number.  A lower median age typically points to the presence of families with 
children.  Parks and recreation activities, programs and events draw a large demographic but tend 
to be most popular with youth and their parents.  Grandparents are becoming an increasing part of 
the household though, as they care for and are involved with their grandchildren.  
  
25
27
29
31
33
35
37
39
41
43
45
2020 2023 2028
37
39.4 40
36.2
38.7 39.4
36.8
39
39.8
37.1
39.1 39.8
Primary Service Area Secondary Service Area State of Wyoming Nationally
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  2423  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
6 | Page  
The following chart provides the number of households and percentage of households in the 
Primary and Secondary Service Areas with children. 
 
Table B – Households w/ Children 
 
 Number of Households w/ 
Children 
Percentage of Households 
w/ Children 
Primary Service Area 7,643 27.6% 
Secondary Service Area 10,770 29.6% 
State of Wyoming - 29.1% 
 
The information contained in Table-B helps further outline the presence of families with children.  
As a point of comparison in the 2023 USA Projection, 30.6% of households nationally had children 
present.  
  
 
 
 
7 | Page  
Median Age by Census Block Group Map 
 
 
 
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 
 
 
8 | Page  
Table C – Median Household Income: 
 
 2023 Projection 2028 Projection 
Primary Service Area $60,519 $66,420 
Secondary Service Area $59,994 $65,745 
State of Wyoming $65,783 $72,813 
National $72,603 $82,410 
 
Chart C (1) – Median Household Income: 
 
 
Based on 2023 projections for median household income the following narrative describes the 
service area: 
In the Primary Service Area, the percentage of households with median income over $50,000 per 
year is 59.2% compared to 61.6% on a national level.  Furthermore, the percentage of the 
households in the service area with median income less than $25,000 per year is 18.4% compared 
to a level of 18.0% nationally.  
 
In the Secondary Service Area , the percentage of households with median income over $50,000 
per year is 58.8% compared to 61.6% on a national level.  Furthermore, the percentage of the 
households in the service area with median income less than $25,000 per year is 17.8% compared 
to a level of 18.0% nationally.  
 
While there is no perfect indicator of use of parks and recreation facilities and programs , the 
percentage of households with more than $50,000 median income is a key indicator.  Therefore, 
those numbers are significant and balanced with the overall cost of living.  
$20,000
$30,000
$40,000
$50,000
$60,000
$70,000
$80,000
$90,000
2023 2028
$60,519 
$66,420 
$59,994 
$65,745 $65,783 
$72,813 $72,603 
$82,410 
Primary Service Area Secondary Service Area State of Wyoming National
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  2625  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
9 | Page  
Chart C (2) – Median Household Income Distribution 
 
  
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Primary Service
Area
Secondary Service
Area
State of Wyoming National
18.4% 17.8% 17.5% 16.5%
22.3% 23.5% 19.5% 18.2%
59.2% 58.8% 63.0% 65.3%
<$24,999 $25,000-$49,999 $50,000+
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 
 
 
10 | Page  
Household Income by Census Block Group Map 
 
 
In addition to taking a look at the Median Age and Median Income, it is important to examine 
Household Budget Expenditures.  Reviewing housing information; shelter, utilities, fuel and public 
services along with entertainment & recreation can provide a snapshot  into the cost of living and 
spending patterns in the services areas.  The table below looks at that information and compares 
the service areas. 
 

 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  2827  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
11 | Page  
Table D – Household Budget Expenditures2F
3: 
 
Primary Service Area SPI Average Amount Spent Percent 
Housing 75 $22,974.67 33.3% 
Shelter 75 $18,631.79 27.0% 
Utilities, Fuel, Public Service 75 $4,342.87 6.3% 
Entertainment & Recreation 75 $2,825.01 4.1% 
 
Secondary Service Area SPI Average Amount Spent Percent 
Housing 76 $23,281.48 33.2% 
Shelter 76 $18,862.30 26.9% 
Utilities, Fuel, Public Service 76 $4,419.18 6.3% 
Entertainment & Recreation 76 $2,870.39 4.1% 
 
State of Wyoming SPI Average Amount Spent Percent 
Housing 84 $25,788.59 32.7% 
Shelter 84 $20,728.32 26.3% 
Utilities, Fuel, Public Service 87 $5,060.27 6.4% 
Entertainment & Recreation 89 $3,356.14 4.3% 
 
SPI:   Spending Potential Index as compared to the National number of 100. 
Average Amount Spent:  The average amount spent per household. 
Percent:  Percent of the total 100% of household expenditures.   
 
Note: Shelter along with Utilities, Fuel, Public Service are a portion of the Housing percentage.  
  
 
3 Consumer Spending data are derived from the 2019 and 2021 Consumer Expenditure Surveys, Bureau of Labor 
Statistics.  ESRI forecasts for 2023 and 2028. 
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 
 
 
12 | Page  
Chart D – Household Budget Expenditures Spending Potential Index: 
 
 
 
The consistency between the median household income and the household budget expenditures is 
important.  It also points to the fact that compared to a National level the dollars available, the 
money being spent in the Primary Service Area is lower.  This could point to the ability to pay for 
programs and services offered at a recreation facility of any variety.   
 
The total number of housing units in the Primary Service Area is 30,000 and 94.0% are occupied, 
or 28,198 housing units.  The total vacancy rate for the service area is 7.0%. As a comparison, the 
vacancy rate nationally was 11.6%.  Of the available units: 
 
• For Rent   1.1% 
• Rented, not Occupied  0.2% 
• For Sale   0.7%  
• Sold, not Occupied  0.1%  
• For Seasonal Use  0.9%  
• Other Vacant   4.1% 
 
 
The total number of housing units  in the Secondary Service Area is 39,323 and 94.0% are 
occupied, or 36,959 housing units .  The total vacancy rate for the service area is 7.0%. As a 
comparison, the vacancy rate nationally was 11.6%.  Of the available units: 
 
• For Rent   0.9% 
• Rented, not Occupied  0.2% 
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
Housing Shelter Utilities, Fuel, Public
Service
Entertainment &
Recreation
75 75 75 7576 76 76 76
84 84
87 89
100 100 100 100
Primary Service Area Secondary Service Area State of Wyoming National
 
 
 
13 | Page  
• For Sale   0.8%  
• Sold, not Occupied  0.1%  
• For Seasonal Use  0.8%  
• Other Vacant   4.0% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  3029  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 
 
 
14 | Page  
Recreation Expenditures Spending Potential Index:  Finally, through the demographic provider 
that B*K utilizes for the market analysis portion of the report, we can examine the overall 
propensity for households to spend dollars on recreation activities.  The following comparisons 
are possible. 
 
Table E – Recreation Expenditures Spending Potential Index3F
4: 
 
Primary Service Area SPI Average Spent 
Fees for Participant Sports 77 $91.92 
Fees for Recreational Lessons 73 $105.14 
Social, Recreation, Club Membership 76 $210.24 
Exercise Equipment/Game Tables 79 $77.17 
Other Sports Equipment 70 $7.77 
 
Secondary Service Area SPI Average Spent 
Fees for Participant Sports 79 $93.98 
Fees for Recreational Lessons 74 $107.62 
Social, Recreation, Club Membership 77 $212.92 
Exercise Equipment/Game Tables 81 $79.15 
Other Sports Equipment 74 $8.19 
 
State of Wyoming SPI Average Spent 
Fees for Participant Sports 84 $101.00 
Fees for Recreational Lessons 79 $114.37 
Social, Recreation, Club Membership 84 $232.59 
Exercise Equipment/Game Tables 85 $82.65 
Other Sports Equipment 89 $9.96 
 
Average Amount Spent:  The average amount spent for the service or item in a year. 
SPI:  Spending potential index as compared to the national number of 100. 
 
  
 
4 Consumer Spending data are derived from the 2019  and 2021 Consumer Expenditure Surveys, Bureau of Labor 
Statistics. 
 
 
 
15 | Page  
Chart E – Recreation Spending Potential Index: 
 
 
Again, there is a great deal of consistency between median household income, household budget 
expenditures and now recreation and spending potential.    
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
Participant Sports Rec Lessons Social, Rec, Club
Member
Exercise Equip Other Sports Equip
77
73
76
79
70
79
74
77
81
74
84
79
84 85
89
100 100 100 100 100
Primary Service Area Secondary Service Area State of Wyoming National
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  3231  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 
 
 
16 | Page  
Recreation Spending Potential Index by Census Block Group Map 
 
 
  
 
 
 
17 | Page  
Population Distribution by Age: Utilizing census information for the Primary  and Secondary 
Service Area, the following comparisons are possible. 
 
Table F – 2023 Primary Service Area Age Distribution (ESRI estimates) 
 
Ages Population % of Total Nat. Population Difference 
0-5 4,070 6.1% 5.7% +0.4% 
5-17 10,608 16.0% 16.0% +0.0% 
18-24 5,207 7.8% 9.1% -1.3% 
25-44 17,935 27.0% 26.8% +0.2% 
45-54 7,342 11.1% 11.9% -0.9% 
55-64 8,521 12.8% 12.7% +0.1% 
65-74 7,484 11.3% 10.6% +0.7% 
75+ 5,259 7.9% 7.2% +0.7% 
 
Population:  2023 census estimates in the different age groups in the Primary Service Area. 
% of Total:  Percentage of the Primary Service Area population in the age group. 
National Population: Percentage of the national population in the age group. 
Difference: Percentage difference between the Primary Service Area population and the national 
population. 
 
Chart F – 2023 Primary Service Area Age Group Distribution 
 
 
The demographic makeup of the Primary  Service Area, when compared to the characteristics of 
the national population, indicates that there are some differences with a smaller population in the 
age groups under 18-24 and 45-54 age groups.  The greatest positive variance is in the 65- 74 and 
75+ age groups with +0.7%, while the greatest negative variance is in the 18-24 age group with -
1.3%. 
0.0%
5.0%
10.0%
15.0%
20.0%
25.0%
30.0%
-5 6-17 18-24 25-44 45-54 55-64 65-74 75+
Primary Service Area National
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  3433  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
18 | Page  
Table G – 2023 Secondary Service Area Age Distribution (ESRI estimates) 
 
Ages Population % of Total Nat. Population Difference 
0-5 5,780 6.4% 5.7% +0.7% 
5-17 14,726 16.3% 16.0% +0.3% 
18-24 7,697 8.5% 9.1% -0.6% 
25-44 24,067 26.6% 26.8% -0.2% 
45-54 10,089 11.2% 11.9% -0.7% 
55-64 11,680 12.9% 12.7% +0.2% 
65-74 9,967 11.0% 10.6% +0.4% 
75+ 6,403 7.1% 7.2% -0.1% 
 
Population:  2023 census estimates in the different age groups in the Secondary Service Area. 
% of Total:  Percentage of the Secondary Service Area population in the age group. 
National Population: Percentage of the national population in the age group. 
Difference: Percentage difference between the Secondary Service Area population and the national 
population. 
 
Chart G – 2023 Secondary Service Area Age Group Distribution 
 
 
The demographic makeup of the Secondary Service Area, when compared to the characteristics of 
the national population, indicates that there are some differences with a smaller population in the 
age groups under 18 -24, 25-44, 45-54, and 75+ age groups.  The greatest positive variance is in 
the 0-5 age group with +0.7%, while the greatest negative variance is in the 45-54 age group with 
-0.7%. 
 
 
0.0%
5.0%
10.0%
15.0%
20.0%
25.0%
30.0%
-5 6-17 18-24 25-44 45-54 55-64 65-74 75+
Secondary Service Area National
 
 
 
19 | Page  
Population Distribution Comparison by Age: U tilizing census information from the Primary  
and Secondary Service Area, the following comparisons are possible. 
 
Table H – 2023 Primary Service Area Population Estimates (U.S. Census Information and ESRI) 
 
Ages 2020 Census 2023 
Projection 
2028 
Projection 
Percent 
Change 
Percent 
Change Nat’l 
-5 4,713 4,070 4,165 -11.6% -9.1% 
5-17 10,688 10,608 10,695 +0.1% -8.2% 
18-24 6,133 5,207 5,475 -10.7% -7.7% 
25-44 17,316 17,935 17,580 +1.5% +3.6% 
45-54 9,260 7,342 7,593 -18.0% -16.5% 
55-64 8,094 8,521 7,570 -6.5% +1.7% 
65-74 4,653 7,484 7,715 +65.8% +61.3% 
75+ 4,308 5,259 6,356 +47.5% +51.1% 
 
Chart H – Primary Service Area Population Growth 
 
 
Table-H illustrates the growth or decline in age group numbers from the 2020 census until the year 
2028.  It is projected that age categories 5- 17, 25-44, 65- 74 and 75+ will see an increase in 
population.  The population of the United States is aging, and it is not unusual to find negative 
growth numbers in the younger age groups and significant net gains in the 45 plus age groupings 
in communities which are relatively stable in their population numbers. 
 
 
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
14,000
16,000
18,000
-5 6-17 18-24 25-44 45-54 55-64 65-74 75+
2020 2023 2028
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  3635  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
20 | Page  
Table I – 2023 Secondary Service Area Population Estimates (U.S. Census Information and ESRI) 
 
Ages 2020 Census 2023 
Projection 
2028 
Projection 
Percent 
Change 
Percent 
Change Nat’l 
-5 6,638 5,780 5,928 -10.7% -9.1% 
5-17 14,953 14,726 14,818 -0.9% -8.2% 
18-24 9,031 7,697 7,998 -11.4% -7.7% 
25-44 23,275 24,067 23,733 +2.0% +3.6% 
45-54 12,684 10,089 10,377 -18.2% -16.5% 
55-64 10,893 11,680 10,470 -3.9% +1.7% 
65-74 6,124 9,967 10,469 +71.0% +61.3% 
75+ 5,034 6,403 7,882 +56.6% +51.1% 
 
Chart I – Secondary Service Area Population Growth 
 
 
Table-I illustrates the growth or decline in age group numbers from the 2020 census until the year 
2028.  It is projected that age  categories 25 -44, 55- 64, 65- 74 and 75+ will see an increase in 
population.  The population of the United States is aging, and it is not unusual to find negative 
growth numbers in the younger age groups and significant net gains in the 45 plus age groupings 
in communities which are relatively stable in their population numbers. 
 
 
  
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
-5 6-17 18-24 25-44 45-54 55-64 65-74 75+
2020 2023 2028
 
 
 
21 | Page  
Below is listed the distribution of the population by race and ethnicity for the Primary  and 
Secondary Service Area for 2023 population projections.  Those numbers were developed from 
2020 Census Data. 
 
Table J – Primary Service Area Ethnic Population and Median Age 2023 
(Source – U.S. Census Bureau and ESRI) 
 
Ethnicity Total 
Population 
Median Age % of 
Population 
% of WY 
Population 
Hispanic 11,145 30.0 16.8% 10.6% 
 
Table K – Primary Service Area by Race and Median Age 2023 
(Source – U.S. Census Bureau and ESRI) 
 
Race Total 
Population 
Median Age % of 
Population 
% of WY 
Population 
White 52,629 42.6 79.2% 84.3% 
Black 1,695 33.4 2.6% 0.9% 
American Indian 772 37.9 1.2% 2.4% 
Asian 958 41.3 1.4% 0.9% 
Pacific Islander 124 39.2 0.2% 0.1% 
Other 3,032 32.7 4.6% 3.6% 
Multiple 7,216 21.1 10.9% 7.9% 
 
2023 Primary Service Area Total Population:  66,426 Residents  
 
Chart K – 2023 Primary Service Area Population by Non-White Race 
 
 
 
 
2.6% 1.2%
1.4%
0.2%
4.6%
10.9%
Black
American Indian
Asian
Pacific Islander
Other
Multiple
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  3837  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
22 | Page  
Table L – Secondary Service Area Ethnic Population and Median Age 2023 
(Source – U.S. Census Bureau and ESRI) 
 
Ethnicity Total 
Population 
Median Age % of 
Population 
% of WY 
Population 
Hispanic 15,396 28.7 17.0% 10.6% 
 
Table M – Secondary Service Area by Race and Median Age 2023 
(Source – U.S. Census Bureau and ESRI) 
 
Race Total 
Population 
Median Age % of 
Population 
% of WY 
Population 
White 71,172 42.0 78.7% 84.3% 
Black 2,374 31.1 2.6% 0.9% 
American Indian 1,064 37.8 1.2% 2.4% 
Asian 1,221 41.5 1.4% 0.9% 
Pacific Islander 153 35.9 0.2% 0.1% 
Other 4,430 31.0 4.9% 3.6% 
Multiple 9,991 21.3 11.1% 7.9% 
 
2023 Secondary Service Area Total Population:  90,405 Residents  
 
 
Chart M – 2023 Secondary Service Area Population by Non-White Race 
 
 
 
  
2.6% 1.2%
1.4%
0.2%
4.9%
11.1%
Black
American Indian
Asian
Pacific Islander
Other
Multiple
 
 
 
23 | Page  
Tapestry Segmentation 
 
Tapestry segmentation represents the 4th generation of market segmentation systems that began 30 
years ago.  The 67 -segment Tapestry Segmentation system classifies U.S. neighborhoods based 
on their socioeconomic and demographic compositions.  While the demographic landscape of the 
U.S. has changed  significantly since the 2000 Census , the tapestry segmentation has remained 
stable as neighborhoods have evolved. 
 
There is value including this information for Cheyenne, WY.  The data assists the organization in 
understanding the consumers/constituents in their service area  and supply them with the right 
products and services. 
 
The Tapestry segmentation system classifies U.S. neighborhoods into 65 unique market segments.  
Neighborhoods are sorted by more than 60 attributes including; income, employment, home value, 
housing types, education, household composition, age and other key determinates of consumer 
behavior. 
 
The following pages and tables outline the top 5 tapestry segments in each of the service areas and 
provide a brief description of each.  This information combined with the key indicators and 
demographic analysis of each service area help further describe the markets that the Primary  and 
Secondary Service Areas look to serve with programs, services, and special events.     
 
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 
 
 
24 | Page  
Table N – Primary Service Area Tapestry Segment Comparison (ESRI estimates) 
 
 Primary Service Area Demographics 
Percent 
Cumulative 
Percent Median Age 
Median HH 
Income 
Old and Newcomers (8F) 27.3% 27.3% 39.4 $44,900  
Bright Young Professionals (8C) 11.4% 38.7% 33.0 $54,000  
Exurbanites (1E) 7.8% 46.5% 51.0 $103,400  
In Style (5B) 5.9% 52.4% 42.0 $73,000  
Comfortable Empty Nesters (5A) 5.8% 58.2% 48.0 $75,000  
 
 
Chart N – Primary Service Area Tapestry Segment Entertainment Spending: 
 
 
Old and Newcomers (8F) – Singles living on a budget. Just beginning careers or taking 
college/adult education classes.   Strong supporters of environmental organizations.  Price 
aware.  Residents have a strong sense of community. They volunteer for charities, help fundraise, 
and recycle.    
 
Bright Young Professionals (8C) – This is a large market, primarily located in urban outskirts of 
large metropolitan areas.   These communities are home to young, educated, working 
professionals.  One out of three householders are under the age of 35.  Slightly more diverse 
couples dominate this market, with more renters than homeowners.  Household type is primarily 
couples, married, with above average concentrations of both single -parent and single -person 
households.  There is a significant Hispanic (16.6%) and Black (16.0%) population in t his 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
Old and
Newcomers (8F)
Bright Young
Professionals (8C)
Exurbanites (1E) In Style (5B) Comfortable
Empty Nesters
(5A)
76
85
172
117 113100 100 100 100 100
Tapestry National
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  4039  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
25 | Page  
segment.  They participate in a variety of sports, including backpacking, basketball, football, 
bowling, Pilates, weight lifting, and yoga.  
 
Exurbanites (1E) – Although approaching retirement, this group shows no sign of slowing down.  
Live an affluent lifestyle, active in the community and give to charities. Stay fit and enjoy being 
social and hard working.  Favorite activities include lifting weights, jogging, hiking, kayaking and 
golf.  This is the top market for watching college basketball and professional football.  
 
In Style (5B) – This group embraces the urban lifestyle.  They are fully connected to digital devices 
and support the arts and charities/causes.  Most do not have children.  Meticulous planners.  
Residents stay fit by exercising, eating a healthy diet to control their weight, buying low -fat foods 
and taking vitamins.    
 
Comfortable Empty Nesters (5A) – Residents in this large, growing segment are older, with more 
than half of all households aged 55 or older; many still live in the suburbs where they grew 
up.  Most are professionals working in government, health care, or manufacturing.  Many are 
enjoying the transition from child rearing to retirement.  Physically active, they play golf, ski, ride 
bicycles, and work out regularly.     
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 
 
 
24 | Page  
Table N – Primary Service Area Tapestry Segment Comparison (ESRI estimates) 
 
 Primary Service Area Demographics 
Percent 
Cumulative 
Percent Median Age 
Median HH 
Income 
Old and Newcomers (8F) 27.3% 27.3% 39.4 $44,900  
Bright Young Professionals (8C) 11.4% 38.7% 33.0 $54,000  
Exurbanites (1E) 7.8% 46.5% 51.0 $103,400  
In Style (5B) 5.9% 52.4% 42.0 $73,000  
Comfortable Empty Nesters (5A) 5.8% 58.2% 48.0 $75,000  
 
 
Chart N – Primary Service Area Tapestry Segment Entertainment Spending: 
 
 
Old and Newcomers (8F) – Singles living on a budget. Just beginning careers or taking 
college/adult education classes.   Strong supporters of environmental organizations.  Price 
aware.  Residents have a strong sense of community. They volunteer for charities, help fundraise, 
and recycle.    
 
Bright Young Professionals (8C) – This is a large market, primarily located in urban outskirts of 
large metropolitan areas.   These communities are home to young, educated, working 
professionals.  One out of three householders are under the age of 35.  Slightly more diverse 
couples dominate this market, with more renters than homeowners.  Household type is primarily 
couples, married, with above average concentrations of both single -parent and single -person 
households.  There is a significant Hispanic (16.6%) and Black (16.0%) population in t his 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
Old and
Newcomers (8F)
Bright Young
Professionals (8C)
Exurbanites (1E) In Style (5B) Comfortable
Empty Nesters
(5A)
76
85
172
117 113100 100 100 100 100
Tapestry National
 
 
 
24 | Page  
Table N – Primary Service Area Tapestry Segment Comparison (ESRI estimates) 
 
 Primary Service Area Demographics 
Percent 
Cumulative 
Percent Median Age 
Median HH 
Income 
Old and Newcomers (8F) 27.3% 27.3% 39.4 $44,900  
Bright Young Professionals (8C) 11.4% 38.7% 33.0 $54,000  
Exurbanites (1E) 7.8% 46.5% 51.0 $103,400  
In Style (5B) 5.9% 52.4% 42.0 $73,000  
Comfortable Empty Nesters (5A) 5.8% 58.2% 48.0 $75,000  
 
 
Chart N – Primary Service Area Tapestry Segment Entertainment Spending: 
 
 
Old and Newcomers (8F) – Singles living on a budget. Just beginning careers or taking 
college/adult education classes.   Strong supporters of environmental organizations.  Price 
aware.  Residents have a strong sense of community. They volunteer for charities, help fundraise, 
and recycle.    
 
Bright Young Professionals (8C) – This is a large market, primarily located in urban outskirts of 
large metropolitan areas.   These communities are home to young, educated, working 
professionals.  One out of three householders are under the age of 35.  Slightly more diverse 
couples dominate this market, with more renters than homeowners.  Household type is primarily 
couples, married, with above average concentrations of both single -parent and single -person 
households.  There is a significant Hispanic (16.6%) and Black (16.0%) population in t his 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
Old and
Newcomers (8F)
Bright Young
Professionals (8C)
Exurbanites (1E) In Style (5B) Comfortable
Empty Nesters
(5A)
76
85
172
117 113100 100 100 100 100
Tapestry National
 
 
 
26 | Page  
Table O – Secondary Service Area Tapestry Segment Comparison (ESRI estimates) 
 
 Primary Service Area Demographics 
Percent 
Cumulative 
Percent Median Age 
Median HH 
Income 
Old and Newcomers (8F) 21.5% 21.5% 39.4 $44,900  
Down the Road (10D) 11.9% 33.4% 35.0 $38,700  
Bright Young Professionals (8C) 8.8% 42.2% 33.0 $54,000  
Exurbanites (1E) 7.8% 50.0% 51.0 $103,400  
Green Acres (6A) 7.5% 57.5% 43.9 $76,800  
 
 
Chart O – Secondary Service Area Tapestry Segment Entertainment Spending: 
 
 
Old and Newcomers (8F) – Singles living on a budget. Just beginning careers or taking 
college/adult education classes.   Strong supporters of environmental organizations.  Price 
aware.  Residents have a strong sense of community. They volunteer for charities, help fundraise, 
and recycle.    
 
Down the Road (10D) – Sem-rural neighborhoods, maintly in the South and West.  Young diverse 
communities with highest proportion of American Indians.  Family-oriented consumers with 
traditional values.  Prefer convenience.  Participate in fishing and hunting.    
 
Bright Young Professionals (8C) – This is a large market, primarily located in urban outskirts of 
large metropolitan areas.   These communities are home to young, educated, working 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
Old and
Newcomers (8F)
Down the Road
(10D)
Bright Young
Professionals (8C)
Exurbanites (1E) Green Acres (6A)
76
65
85
172
116
100 100 100 100 100
Tapestry National
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  4241  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
27 | Page  
professionals.  One out of three householders are under the age of 35.  Slightly more diverse 
couples dominate this market, with more renters than homeowners.  Household type is primarily 
couples, married, with above average concentrations of both single -parent and single -person 
households.  There is a significant Hispanic (16.6%) and Black (16.0%) population in this 
segment.  They participate in a variety of sports, including backpacking, basketball, football, 
bowling, Pilates, weight lifting, and yoga.  
 
Exurbanites (1E) – Although approaching retirement, this group shows no sign of slowing down.  
Live an affluent lifestyle, active in the community and give to charities. Stay fit and enjoy being 
social and hard working.  Favorite activities include lifting weights, jogging, hiking, kayaking and 
golf.  This is the top market for watching college basketball and professional football.  
 
Green Acres (6A) – Mainly married couples in neighborhoods.   Educated, hard- working and 
blue-collar. Lifestyle that features self-reliance. Enjoy maintaining home/yard, being outside and 
playing sports.  Most households no longer have children.  Conservative and cautious. F or 
exercise, they prefer the outdoors, biking, fishing, and hunting.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 
 
 
28 | Page  
Market Potential Index for Adult Participation:   In addition to examining the participation 
numbers for various outdoor activities through the National Sporting Goods Association, the 2023 
Survey and the Spending Potential Index for Entertainment & Recreation, B*K can access  
information about Sports & Leisure Market Potential.  The following information illustrates 
participation rates for adults in indoor and outdoor activities.   
 
Table P – Market Potential Index (MPI) for Participation in Activities in Primary Service Area 
 
Indoor Sports Adults 
Participated In: 
Expected 
Number of Adults 
Percent of 
Population 
MPI 
Aerobics 4,333 8.4% 100 
Basketball 2,802 5.4% 95 
Bowling 3,570 6.9% 103 
Ice Skating 1,137 2.2% 99 
Pilates 1,412 2.7% 97 
Ping Pong 2,017 3.9% 113 
Volleyball 1,218 2.4% 100 
Weight Lifting 7,218 13.9% 99 
Yoga 5,980 11.6% 106 
Zumba 1,512 2.9% 94 
 
Outdoor Sports Adults 
Participated In: 
Expected 
Number of Adults 
Percent of 
Population 
MPI 
Baseball 1,260 2.4% 95 
Bicycle Riding 6,155 11.9% 99 
Exercise Walking 18,095 35.0% 103 
Fishing (fresh water) 5,729 11.1% 105 
Football  1,171 2.3% 95 
Golf 4,502 8.7% 110 
Hiking 10,075 19.5% 103 
Mtn-Biking (off-road) 2,023 3.9% 109 
Running/Jogging 6,022 11.6% 103 
Soccer 1,419 2.7% 87 
Softball 725 1.4% 86 
Swimming 8,182 15.8% 105 
Tennis 2,018 3.9% 102 
 
Expected # of Adults: Number of adults, 18 years of age and older, participating in the activity in the Service 
Area. 
Percent of Population:  Percent of the service area that participates in the activity. 
MPI:  Market potential index as compared to the national number of 100. 
 
This table indicates that the overall propensity for adults to participate in activities is greater than 
the national number of 100.  In many cases, when a participation number is lower than the National 
number, this is due to a lack of facilities or an inability to pay for services and programs. 
 
 
 
28 | Page  
Market Potential Index for Adult Participation:   In addition to examining the participation 
numbers for various outdoor activities through the National Sporting Goods Association, the 2023 
Survey and the Spending Potential Index for Entertainment & Recreation, B*K can access  
information about Sports & Leisure Market Potential.  The following information illustrates 
participation rates for adults in indoor and outdoor activities.   
 
Table P – Market Potential Index (MPI) for Participation in Activities in Primary Service Area 
 
Indoor Sports Adults 
Participated In: 
Expected 
Number of Adults 
Percent of 
Population 
MPI 
Aerobics 4,333 8.4% 100 
Basketball 2,802 5.4% 95 
Bowling 3,570 6.9% 103 
Ice Skating 1,137 2.2% 99 
Pilates 1,412 2.7% 97 
Ping Pong 2,017 3.9% 113 
Volleyball 1,218 2.4% 100 
Weight Lifting 7,218 13.9% 99 
Yoga 5,980 11.6% 106 
Zumba 1,512 2.9% 94 
 
Outdoor Sports Adults 
Participated In: 
Expected 
Number of Adults 
Percent of 
Population 
MPI 
Baseball 1,260 2.4% 95 
Bicycle Riding 6,155 11.9% 99 
Exercise Walking 18,095 35.0% 103 
Fishing (fresh water) 5,729 11.1% 105 
Football  1,171 2.3% 95 
Golf 4,502 8.7% 110 
Hiking 10,075 19.5% 103 
Mtn-Biking (off-road) 2,023 3.9% 109 
Running/Jogging 6,022 11.6% 103 
Soccer 1,419 2.7% 87 
Softball 725 1.4% 86 
Swimming 8,182 15.8% 105 
Tennis 2,018 3.9% 102 
 
Expected # of Adults: Number of adults, 18 years of age and older, participating in the activity in the Service 
Area. 
Percent of Population:  Percent of the service area that participates in the activity. 
MPI:  Market potential index as compared to the national number of 100. 
 
This table indicates that the overall propensity for adults to participate in activities is greater than 
the national number of 100.  In many cases, when a participation number is lower than the National 
number, this is due to a lack of facilities or an inability to pay for services and programs. 
 
 
 
28 | Page  
Market Potential Index for Adult Participation:   In addition to examining the participation 
numbers for various outdoor activities through the National Sporting Goods Association, the 2023 
Survey and the Spending Potential Index for Entertainment & Recreation, B*K can access  
information about Sports & Leisure Market Potential.  The following information illustrates 
participation rates for adults in indoor and outdoor activities.   
 
Table P – Market Potential Index (MPI) for Participation in Activities in Primary Service Area 
 
Indoor Sports Adults 
Participated In: 
Expected 
Number of Adults 
Percent of 
Population 
MPI 
Aerobics 4,333 8.4% 100 
Basketball 2,802 5.4% 95 
Bowling 3,570 6.9% 103 
Ice Skating 1,137 2.2% 99 
Pilates 1,412 2.7% 97 
Ping Pong 2,017 3.9% 113 
Volleyball 1,218 2.4% 100 
Weight Lifting 7,218 13.9% 99 
Yoga 5,980 11.6% 106 
Zumba 1,512 2.9% 94 
 
Outdoor Sports Adults 
Participated In: 
Expected 
Number of Adults 
Percent of 
Population 
MPI 
Baseball 1,260 2.4% 95 
Bicycle Riding 6,155 11.9% 99 
Exercise Walking 18,095 35.0% 103 
Fishing (fresh water) 5,729 11.1% 105 
Football  1,171 2.3% 95 
Golf 4,502 8.7% 110 
Hiking 10,075 19.5% 103 
Mtn-Biking (off-road) 2,023 3.9% 109 
Running/Jogging 6,022 11.6% 103 
Soccer 1,419 2.7% 87 
Softball 725 1.4% 86 
Swimming 8,182 15.8% 105 
Tennis 2,018 3.9% 102 
 
Expected # of Adults: Number of adults, 18 years of age and older, participating in the activity in the Service 
Area. 
Percent of Population:  Percent of the service area that participates in the activity. 
MPI:  Market potential index as compared to the national number of 100. 
 
This table indicates that the overall propensity for adults to participate in activities is greater than 
the national number of 100.  In many cases, when a participation number is lower than the National 
number, this is due to a lack of facilities or an inability to pay for services and programs. 
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  4443  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
29 | Page  
Table Q – Market Potential Index (MPI) for Participation in Activities in Secondary Service 
Area 
 
Indoor Sports Adults 
Participated In: 
Expected 
Number of Adults 
Percent of 
Population 
MPI 
Aerobics 5,807 8.3% 100 
Basketball 3,914 5.6% 98 
Bowling 4,886 7.0% 104 
Ice Skating 1,564 2.2% 101 
Pilates 1,920 2.7% 98 
Ping Pong 2,850 4.1% 118 
Volleyball 1,703 2.4% 104 
Weight Lifting 9,979 14.3% 101 
Yoga 8,099 11.6% 106 
Zumba 1,999 2.9% 92 
 
Outdoor Sports Adults 
Participated In: 
Expected 
Number of Adults 
Percent of 
Population 
MPI 
Baseball 1,778 2.5% 99 
Bicycle Riding 8,257 11.8% 98 
Exercise Walking 24,129 34.5% 102 
Fishing (fresh water) 8,025 11.5% 109 
Football  1,574 2.3% 95 
Golf 6,034 8.6% 109 
Hiking 13,755 19.7% 104 
Mtn-Biking (off-road) 8,257 11.8% 98 
Running/Jogging 8,358 12.0% 106 
Soccer 2,042 2.9% 93 
Softball 1,069 1.5% 94 
Swimming 10,974 15.7% 104 
Tennis 2,805 4.0% 105 
 
Expected # of Adults: Number of adults, 18 years of age and older, participating in the activity in the Service 
Area. 
Percent of Population:  Percent of the service area that participates in the activity. 
MPI:  Market potential index as compared to the national number of 100. 
 
This table indicates that the overall propensity for adults to participate in activities is greater than 
the national number of 100.  In many cases, when a participation number is lower than the National 
number, this is due to a lack of facilities or an inability to pay for services and programs. 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 
 
 
30 | Page  
Demographic Summary 
 
The following summarizes the demographic characteristics of the service areas. 
 
• The population within either or both Service Areas is such that it would support  
comprehensive parks and recreation services.  
 
• The median age in both Service Areas is similar to the State and National numbers.  A 
lower median age points to young families with children, which are significant participants 
in recreation and aquatic programs.   
 
• The Primary Service Area has a slightly  lower percentage of households with children 
(27.6%) than both the state and national average of about 30%.  
 
• The Primary and Secondary Service Areas have a slightly higher median household income 
($60,000) than the state of Wyoming ($65,783) and a lower median household income than 
the national average ($72,603).  Income level is important when it comes to price point for 
programs and services.    
 
• The Household Budget Expenditures and the Recreation Spending Potential are consistent 
with the median household income.  The consistency is important for further understanding 
the potential amount of discretionary income. It is also important to note, specific to 
recreation, that those dollars are currently being spent with other providers by City 
residents.  
 
• The age distribution in the Primary and Secondary Service areas is such that approximately 
22% are under the age of 18 and 31-32% are over the age of 55 in both Service Areas. 
These are two age groups that will be significant users of recreation, fitness and sports 
facilities and programs.  Additionally, it is projected that the 65+ age categories are 
projected to increase substantially through 2028.   
 
• The tapestries show a diverse mixture of lifestyles, demographics and interests. While 
nearly 40% of the population is younger, they have strong family connections , limited 
income and interested in community.  The tapestries following these are older with 
conservative values and financial stability enjoying healthy lifestyles and activities.   
 
• The Recreation Spending Index is lower  than the national average for youth team sports 
(basketball, football, soccer), but higher for adult individual activities (golf, running, 
swimming, tennis).   
 
 
 
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  4645  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
31 | Page  
Section II – Participation Figures 
 
Participation Numbers: On an annual basis, the National Sporting Goods Association (NSGA) 
conducts an in- depth study and survey of how Americans spend their leisure time. The data is 
collected in one year and the report is issued in May of the following year.  This information 
provides the data necessary to overlay rate of participation onto the Primary and Secondary Areas 
to determine market potential.   
 
B*K takes the national average and combines that with participation percentages of the Primary  
and Secondary Service Areas based upon age distribution, median income, region and National 
number.  Those four percentages  are then averaged together to create a unique  participation 
percentage for the service area.  This participation  percentage, when applied to the population of 
the Primary and Secondary Service Areas, then provides an idea of the market potential for indoor 
and outdoor recreation.  
 
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 
 
 
32 | Page  
Table A –Participation Rates in the Primary Service Area 
 
Indoor Activities Age Income Region Nation Average 
Aerobics 15.7% 18.4% 16.8% 15.8% 16.7% 
Basketball 7.3% 7.7% 7.7% 7.6% 7.6% 
Billiards/Pool 7.2% 7.8% 8.5% 7.3% 7.7% 
Bowling 9.4% 9.9% 11.5% 9.6% 10.1% 
Boxing 1.5% 1.8% 1.6% 1.5% 1.6% 
Cheerleading 2.2% 1.0% 0.9% 1.0% 1.3% 
Dart Throwing 3.6% 4.4% 4.9% 3.7% 4.1% 
Exercise w/ Equipment 19.0% 21.7% 23.8% 19.1% 20.9% 
Gymnastics 1.7% 1.8% 2.7% 1.8% 2.0% 
Hockey (ice) 1.0% 1.2% 1.8% 1.0% 1.3% 
Ice/Figure Skating 2.6% 2.3% 3.3% 2.7% 2.7% 
Martial Arts/MMA 1.7% 1.9% 2.1% 1.7% 1.8% 
Pilates 2.0% 2.1% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 
Table Tennis/Ping Pong 4.0% 4.2% 4.7% 4.1% 4.3% 
Volleyball 3.7% 4.2% 5.5% 3.8% 4.3% 
Weight Lifting 12.5% 12.8% 15.1% 12.7% 13.3% 
Workout @ Clubs 9.6% 11.4% 12.8% 9.7% 10.9% 
Wrestling 1.0% 1.0% 0.6% 1.0% 0.9% 
Yoga 10.2% 11.4% 12.6% 10.4% 11.2% 
 
Age:  Participation based on individuals ages 7 & Up of the Service Area. 
Income: Participation based on the 2023 estimated median household income in the Service Area.  
Region:  Participation based on regional statistics (Mountain) 
National:  Participation based on national statistics. 
Average:  Average of the four columns. 
  
 
 
 
33 | Page  
Outdoor Activities Age Income Region Nation Average 
Archery 1.7% 2.3% 2.0% 1.8% 2.0% 
Baseball 3.6% 4.1% 2.7% 3.7% 3.5% 
Bicycle Riding 14.4% 15.7% 13.5% 14.6% 14.6% 
Exercise Walking 37.8% 40.9% 36.4% 37.3% 38.1% 
Fishing (fresh) 9.9% 11.3% 11.9% 9.9% 10.7% 
Football (flag) 1.8% 1.4% 1.7% 1.9% 1.7% 
Football (tackle) 2.1% 2.3% 2.6% 2.2% 2.3% 
Football (touch) 2.6% 3.3% 1.9% 2.7% 2.6% 
Golf 6.6% 5.9% 6.9% 6.5% 6.5% 
Hiking 17.6% 19.3% 25.8% 17.8% 20.1% 
Lacrosse 0.8% 1.1% 0.5% 0.8% 0.8% 
Mtn-Biking (off-road) 2.0% 1.9% 3.3% 2.1% 2.3% 
Pickleball 2.1% 2.6% 3.0% 2.1% 2.4% 
Running/Jogging 14.4% 17.4% 14.2% 14.8% 15.2% 
Skateboarding 2.0% 2.2% 3.6% 2.1% 2.5% 
Soccer 4.5% 4.7% 4.3% 4.6% 4.5% 
Softball 3.0% 3.2% 2.6% 3.1% 3.0% 
Swimming 16.2% 18.1% 17.1% 16.4% 16.9% 
Tennis 4.5% 4.2% 4.5% 4.7% 4.5% 
 
 Age Income Region Nation Average 
Did Not Participate 20.8% 19.8% 18.3% 20.6% 19.9% 
 
Age:  Participation based on individuals ages 7 & Up of the Service Area. 
Income: Participation based on the 2023 estimated median household income in the Service Area.  
Region:  Participation based on regional statistics (Mountain) 
National:  Participation based on national statistics. 
Average:  Average of the four columns. 
  
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  4847  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
34 | Page  
Table B –Participation Rates in the Secondary Service Area 
 
Indoor Activities Age Income Region Nation Average 
Aerobics 15.7% 18.4% 16.8% 15.8% 16.7% 
Basketball 7.5% 7.7% 7.7% 7.6% 7.6% 
Billiards/Pool 7.2% 7.8% 8.5% 7.3% 7.7% 
Bowling 9.5% 9.9% 11.5% 9.6% 10.1% 
Boxing 1.5% 1.8% 1.6% 1.5% 1.6% 
Cheerleading 2.2% 1.0% 0.9% 1.0% 1.3% 
Dart Throwing 3.6% 4.4% 4.9% 3.7% 4.1% 
Exercise w/ Equipment 19.0% 21.7% 23.8% 19.1% 20.9% 
Gymnastics 1.7% 1.8% 2.7% 1.8% 2.0% 
Hockey (ice) 1.0% 1.2% 1.8% 1.0% 1.3% 
Ice/Figure Skating 2.7% 2.3% 3.3% 2.7% 2.7% 
Martial Arts/MMA 1.7% 1.9% 2.1% 1.7% 1.9% 
Pilates 2.0% 2.1% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 
Table Tennis/Ping Pong 4.1% 4.2% 4.7% 4.1% 4.3% 
Volleyball 3.7% 4.2% 5.5% 3.8% 4.3% 
Weight Lifting 12.5% 12.8% 15.1% 12.7% 13.3% 
Workout @ Clubs 9.7% 11.4% 12.8% 9.7% 10.9% 
Wrestling 1.0% 1.0% 0.6% 1.0% 0.9% 
Yoga 10.3% 11.4% 12.6% 10.4% 11.2% 
 
Age:  Participation based on individuals ages 7 & Up of the Service Area. 
Income: Participation based on the 2023 estimated median household income in the Service Area.  
Region:  Participation based on regional statistics (Mountain) 
National:  Participation based on national statistics. 
Average:  Average of the four columns. 
  
 
 
 
35 | Page  
Outdoor Activities Age Income Region Nation Average 
Archery 1.8% 2.3% 2.0% 1.8% 2.0% 
Baseball 3.6% 4.1% 2.7% 3.7% 3.5% 
Bicycle Riding 14.5% 15.7% 13.5% 14.6% 14.6% 
Exercise Walking 37.5% 40.9% 36.4% 37.3% 38.0% 
Fishing (fresh) 9.9% 11.3% 11.9% 9.9% 10.7% 
Football (flag) 1.9% 1.4% 1.7% 1.9% 1.7% 
Football (tackle) 2.1% 2.3% 2.6% 2.2% 2.3% 
Football (touch) 2.6% 3.3% 1.9% 2.7% 2.6% 
Golf 6.5% 5.9% 6.9% 6.5% 6.5% 
Hiking 17.6% 19.3% 25.8% 17.8% 20.1% 
Lacrosse 0.8% 1.1% 0.5% 0.8% 0.8% 
Mtn-Biking (off-road) 2.0% 1.9% 3.3% 2.1% 2.3% 
Pickleball 2.1% 2.6% 3.0% 2.1% 2.4% 
Running/Jogging 14.5% 17.4% 14.2% 14.8% 15.2% 
Skateboarding 2.1% 2.2% 3.6% 2.1% 2.5% 
Soccer 4.6% 4.7% 4.3% 4.6% 4.5% 
Softball 3.0% 3.2% 2.6% 3.1% 3.0% 
Swimming 16.3% 18.1% 17.1% 16.4% 17.0% 
Tennis 4.6% 4.2% 4.5% 4.7% 4.5% 
 
 Age Income Region Nation Average 
Did Not Participate 20.8% 19.8% 18.3% 20.6% 19.9% 
 
Age:  Participation based on individuals ages 7 & Up of the Service Area. 
Income: Participation based on the 2023 estimated median household income in the Service Area.  
Region:  Participation based on regional statistics (Mountain) 
National:  Participation based on national statistics. 
Average:  Average of the four columns. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  5049  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
36 | Page  
Anticipated Participation Number: Utilizing the average percentage from Table A and B above 
plus the 2020 census information and census estimates for 2023 and 2028 (over age 7) the 
following comparisons are available. 
 
Table C –Participation Growth or Decline for Activities in Primary Service Area 
 
Indoor Activities Average 2020 
Population 
2023 
Population 
2028 
Population 
Difference 
Aerobics 16.7% 9,778 10,112 10,218 439 
Basketball 7.6% 4,448 4,599 4,647 200 
Billiards/Pool 7.7% 4,512 4,666 4,715 203 
Bowling 10.1% 5,919 6,121 6,185 266 
Boxing 1.6% 935 967 977 42 
Cheerleading 1.3% 742 768 776 33 
Dart Throwing 4.1% 2,429 2,512 2,538 109 
Exercise w/ Equipment 20.9% 12,255 12,672 12,805 550 
Gymnastics 2.0% 1,174 1,214 1,226 53 
Hockey (ice) 1.3% 736 761 769 33 
Ice/Figure Skating 2.7% 1,602 1,656 1,673 72 
Martial Arts/MMA 1.8% 1,081 1,118 1,130 49 
Pilates 2.0% 1,192 1,232 1,245 54 
Table Tennis/Ping Pong 4.3% 2,495 2,580 2,607 112 
Volleyball 4.3% 2,517 2,603 2,630 113 
Weight Lifting 13.3% 7,779 8,044 8,128 349 
Workout @ Clubs 10.9% 6,382 6,600 6,669 287 
Wrestling 0.9% 523 541 547 24 
Yoga 11.2% 6,544 6,767 6,837 294 
 
Note: These figures do not necessarily translate into attendance figures for various activitie s or 
programs.  T he “Did Not Participate” statistics refers to all 5 8 activities outlined in the NSGA 
2022 Survey Instrument. 
  
 
 
 
37 | Page  
Outdoor Activities Average 2020 
Population 
2023 
Population 
2028 
Population 
Difference 
Archery 2.0% 1,148 1,187 1,200 52 
Baseball 3.5% 2,062 2,132 2,154 93 
Bicycle Riding 14.6% 8,535 8,826 8,918 383 
Exercise Walking 38.1% 22,329 23,090 23,332 1,003 
Fishing (fresh) 10.7% 6,296 6,511 6,579 283 
Football (flag) 1.7% 1,001 1,035 1,046 45 
Football (tackle) 2.3% 1,343 1,389 1,403 60 
Football (touch) 2.6% 1,535 1,588 1,604 69 
Golf 6.5% 3,789 3,918 3,959 170 
Hiking 20.1% 11,793 12,195 12,323 530 
Lacrosse 0.8% 466 481 487 21 
Mtn-Biking (off-road) 2.3% 1,365 1,412 1,426 61 
Pickleball 2.4% 1,433 1,482 1,497 64 
Running/Jogging 15.2% 8,906 9,209 9,306 400 
Skateboarding 2.5% 1,454 1,504 1,520 65 
Soccer 4.5% 2,649 2,740 2,768 119 
Softball 3.0% 1,741 1,800 1,819 78 
Swimming 16.9% 9,929 10,268 10,375 446 
Tennis 4.5% 2,629 2,719 2,747 118 
 
 Average 2020 
Population 
2023 
Population 
2028 
Population 
Difference 
Did Not Participate 19.9% 11,658 12,055 12,181 524 
 
Note: These figures do not necessarily translate into attendance figures for various activitie s or 
programs.  T he “Did Not Participate” statistics refers to all 5 8 activities outlined in the NSGA 
2022 Survey Instrument. 
 
 
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  5251  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
38 | Page  
Table D –Participation Growth or Decline for Activities in Secondary Service Area 
 
Indoor Activities Average 2020 
Population 
2023 
Population 
2028 
Population 
Difference 
Aerobics 16.7% 13,238 13,701 13,892 654 
Basketball 7.6% 6,051 6,263 6,350 299 
Billiards/Pool 7.7% 6,121 6,335 6,423 302 
Bowling 10.1% 8,041 8,322 8,438 397 
Boxing 1.6% 1,272 1,316 1,334 63 
Cheerleading 1.3% 1,014 1,050 1,065 50 
Dart Throwing 4.1% 3,296 3,412 3,459 163 
Exercise w/ Equipment 20.9% 16,601 17,183 17,422 820 
Gymnastics 2.0% 1,598 1,654 1,677 79 
Hockey (ice) 1.3% 1,001 1,036 1,050 49 
Ice/Figure Skating 2.7% 2,180 2,257 2,288 108 
Martial Arts/MMA 1.9% 1,471 1,522 1,543 73 
Pilates 2.0% 1,614 1,670 1,693 80 
Table Tennis/Ping Pong 4.3% 3,389 3,508 3,556 167 
Volleyball 4.3% 3,425 3,545 3,594 169 
Weight Lifting 13.3% 10,555 10,925 11,077 521 
Workout @ Clubs 10.9% 8,652 8,955 9,079 427 
Wrestling 0.9% 714 739 749 35 
Yoga 11.2% 8,874 9,184 9,312 438 
 
Note: These figures do not necessarily translate into attendance figures for various activitie s or 
programs.  T he “Did Not Participate” statistics refers to all 5 8 activities outlined in the NSGA 
2022 Survey Instrument. 
  
 
 
 
39 | Page  
Outdoor Activities Average 2020 
Population 
2023 
Population 
2028 
Population 
Difference 
Archery 2.0% 1,561 1,615 1,638 77 
Baseball 3.5% 2,806 2,905 2,945 139 
Bicycle Riding 14.6% 11,582 11,988 12,154 572 
Exercise Walking 38.0% 30,209 31,266 31,701 1,493 
Fishing (fresh) 10.7% 8,535 8,834 8,956 422 
Football (flag) 1.7% 1,362 1,409 1,429 67 
Football (tackle) 2.3% 1,829 1,893 1,920 90 
Football (touch) 2.6% 2,089 2,162 2,193 103 
Golf 6.5% 5,125 5,305 5,379 253 
Hiking 20.1% 15,996 16,556 16,786 790 
Lacrosse 0.8% 635 657 666 31 
Mtn-Biking (off-road) 2.3% 1,854 1,919 1,946 92 
Pickleball 2.4% 1,943 2,011 2,039 96 
Running/Jogging 15.2% 12,098 12,521 12,695 598 
Skateboarding 2.5% 1,983 2,052 2,081 98 
Soccer 4.5% 3,609 3,735 3,787 178 
Softball 3.0% 2,366 2,449 2,483 117 
Swimming 17.0% 13,480 13,952 14,146 666 
Tennis 4.5% 3,571 3,696 3,747 176 
 
 Average 2020 
Population 
2023 
Population 
2028 
Population 
Difference 
Did Not Participate 19.9% 15,787 16,340 16,567 780 
 
Note: These figures do not necessarily translate into attendance figures for various activitie s or 
programs.  T he “Did Not Participate” statistics refers to all 5 8 activities outlined in the NSGA 
2022 Survey Instrument. 
 
 
 
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  5453  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
40 | Page  
Participation by Ethnicity and Race:  The table below compares the overall rate of participation 
nationally with the rate for Hispanics and African Americans. Utilizing information provided by 
the National Sporting Goods Association's 2021 survey, the following comparisons are possible. 
 
Table E – Comparison of National, African American and Hispanic Participation Rates 
 
Indoor Activity Primary 
Service Area 
National 
Participation 
African 
American 
Participation 
Hispanic 
Participation 
Aerobics 16.7% 15.8% 13.1% 17.8% 
Basketball 7.6% 7.6% 12.0% 9.4% 
Billiards/Pool 7.7% 7.3% 4.7% 8.2% 
Bowling 10.1% 9.6% 11.7% 10.9% 
Boxing 1.6% 1.5% 3.7% 2.3% 
Cheerleading 1.3% 1.0% 1.5% 1.1% 
Dart Throwing 4.1% 3.7% 2.1% 4.2% 
Exercise w/ Equipment 20.9% 19.1% 13.6% 17.2% 
Gymnastics 2.0% 1.8% 1.8% 2.3% 
Hockey (ice) 1.3% 1.0% 0.1% 1.0% 
Ice/Figure Skating 2.7% 2.7% 1.2% 2.7% 
Martial Arts/MMA 1.8% 1.7% 2.6% 2.1% 
Pilates 2.0% 2.0% 1.7% 2.3% 
Table Tennis/Ping Pong 4.3% 4.1% 2.5% 3.6% 
Volleyball 4.3% 3.8% 3.7% 4.6% 
Weight Lifting 13.3% 12.7% 10.7% 13.2% 
Workout @ Clubs 10.9% 9.7% 7.0% 9.9% 
Wrestling 0.9% 1.0% 1.6% 1.5% 
Yoga 11.2% 10.4% 7.5% 10.3% 
 
  
 
 
 
41 | Page  
Outdoor Activity Primary 
Service Area 
National 
Participation 
African 
American 
Participation 
Hispanic 
Participation 
Archery 2.0% 1.8% 0.4% 1.6% 
Baseball 3.5% 3.7% 2.4% 4.8% 
Bicycle Riding 14.6% 14.6% 11.8% 13.3% 
Exercise Walking 38.1% 37.3% 24.4% 32.1% 
Fishing (fresh) 10.7% 9.9% 5.2% 17.2% 
Football (flag) 1.7% 1.9% 3.4% 1.7% 
Football (tackle) 2.3% 2.2% 4.5% 2.0% 
Football (touch) 2.6% 2.7% 5.4% 2.8% 
Golf 6.5% 6.5% 2.2% 4.4% 
Hiking 20.1% 17.8% 6.8% 16.9% 
Lacrosse 0.8% 0.8% 0.5% 0.5% 
Mtn-Biking (off-road) 2.3% 2.1% 2.6% 2.3% 
Pickleball 2.4% 2.1% 1.0% 1.7% 
Running/Jogging 15.2% 14.8% 12.9% 16.8% 
Skateboarding 2.5% 2.1% 2.8% 3.1% 
Soccer 4.5% 4.6% 4.0% 7.2% 
Softball 3.0% 3.1% 2.0% 2.9% 
Swimming 16.9% 16.4% 8.6% 18.2% 
Tennis 4.5% 4.7% 3.3% 4.7% 
 
 Primary 
Service Area 
National 
Participation 
African 
American 
Participation 
Hispanic 
Participation 
Did Not Participate 19.9% 20.6% 22.7% 19.8% 
 
 
 
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  5655  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
42 | Page  
Table F – Comparison of National, African American and Hispanic Participation Rates 
 
Indoor Activity Secondary 
Service Area 
National 
Participation 
African 
American 
Participation 
Hispanic 
Participation 
Aerobics 16.7% 15.8% 13.1% 17.8% 
Basketball 7.6% 7.6% 12.0% 9.4% 
Billiards/Pool 7.7% 7.3% 4.7% 8.2% 
Bowling 10.1% 9.6% 11.7% 10.9% 
Boxing 1.6% 1.5% 3.7% 2.3% 
Cheerleading 1.3% 1.0% 1.5% 1.1% 
Dart Throwing 4.1% 3.7% 2.1% 4.2% 
Exercise w/ Equipment 20.9% 19.1% 13.6% 17.2% 
Gymnastics 2.0% 1.8% 1.8% 2.3% 
Hockey (ice) 1.3% 1.0% 0.1% 1.0% 
Ice/Figure Skating 2.7% 2.7% 1.2% 2.7% 
Martial Arts/MMA 1.9% 1.7% 2.6% 2.1% 
Pilates 2.0% 2.0% 1.7% 2.3% 
Table Tennis/Ping Pong 4.3% 4.1% 2.5% 3.6% 
Volleyball 4.3% 3.8% 3.7% 4.6% 
Weight Lifting 13.3% 12.7% 10.7% 13.2% 
Workout @ Clubs 10.9% 9.7% 7.0% 9.9% 
Wrestling 0.9% 1.0% 1.6% 1.5% 
Yoga 11.2% 10.4% 7.5% 10.3% 
 
  
 
 
 
43 | Page  
Outdoor Activity Secondary 
Service Area 
National 
Participation 
African 
American 
Participation 
Hispanic 
Participation 
Archery 2.0% 1.8% 0.4% 1.6% 
Baseball 3.5% 3.7% 2.4% 4.8% 
Bicycle Riding 14.6% 14.6% 11.8% 13.3% 
Exercise Walking 38.0% 37.3% 24.4% 32.1% 
Fishing (fresh) 10.7% 9.9% 5.2% 17.2% 
Football (flag) 1.7% 1.9% 3.4% 1.7% 
Football (tackle) 2.3% 2.2% 4.5% 2.0% 
Football (touch) 2.6% 2.7% 5.4% 2.8% 
Golf 6.5% 6.5% 2.2% 4.4% 
Hiking 20.1% 17.8% 6.8% 16.9% 
Lacrosse 0.8% 0.8% 0.5% 0.5% 
Mtn-Biking (off-road) 2.3% 2.1% 2.6% 2.3% 
Pickleball 2.4% 2.1% 1.0% 1.7% 
Running/Jogging 15.2% 14.8% 12.9% 16.8% 
Skateboarding 2.5% 2.1% 2.8% 3.1% 
Soccer 4.5% 4.6% 4.0% 7.2% 
Softball 3.0% 3.1% 2.0% 2.9% 
Swimming 17.0% 16.4% 8.6% 18.2% 
Tennis 4.5% 4.7% 3.3% 4.7% 
 
 Secondary 
Service Area 
National 
Participation 
African 
American 
Participation 
Hispanic 
Participation 
Did Not Participate 19.9% 20.6% 22.7% 19.8% 
 
There is a not significant Black population in either  service area ( 2.6%); there is a Hispanic 
population of about 17% in both service areas.   
 
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  5857  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
44 | Page  
National Summary of Sports Participation:  The following chart summarizes participation for 
indoor activities utilizing information from the 2023 National Sporting Goods Association survey. 
 
Table G – Sports Participation Summary 
 
Sport Nat’l Rank4F
5 Nat’l Participation (in millions) 
Exercise Walking 1 113.9 
Cardio Fitness 2 92.9 
Strength Training 3 73.4 
Exercising w/ Equipment 4 58.2 
Swimming 6 50.2 
Running/Jogging 7 45.0 
Bicycle Riding 8 44.6 
Weightlifting 10 38.8 
Yoga 11 31.7 
Workout @ Club 13 29.6 
Basketball 15 23.2 
Billiards/Pool 16 22.3 
Table Tennis/Ping Pong 23 12.5 
Volleyball 26 11.7 
Pickleball 38 6.4 
Pilates 39 6.2 
Gymnastics 43 5.3 
Martial Arts/MMA 44 5.3 
Boxing 48 4.6 
Wrestling 52 3.1 
Cheerleading 53 3.1 
 
Nat’l Rank:   Popularity of sport based on national survey. 
Nat’l Participation:  Population that participate in this sport on national survey.  
  
 
5 This rank is based upon the 58 activities reported on by NSGA in their 202 2 survey instrument. 
 
 
 
45 | Page  
National Participation by Age Group: Within the NSGA survey, participation is broken down 
by age groups.  As such B*K can identify the top 3 age groups participating in the activities 
reflected in this report. 
 
Chart H – Participation by Age Group: 
 
Activity Largest Second Largest Third Largest 
Aerobics 35-44 25-34 45-54 
Basketball 12-17 25-34 18-24 
Bicycle Riding 55-64 45-54 12-17 
Billiards/Pool 25-34 34-44 45-54 
Bowling 25-34 35-44 18-24 
Cheerleading 12-17 7-11 18-24 
Exercise Walking 55-64 65-74 45-54 
Exercise w/ Equipment 25-34 45-54 55-64 
Gymnastics 7-11 12-17 25-34 
Martial Arts MMA 7-11 25-34 12-17 
Pickleball 12-17 65-74 18-24 
Pilates 25-34 35-44 45-54 
Running/Jogging 25-34 35-44 45-54 
Swimming 55-64 12-17 7-11 
Tables Tennis 25-34 18-24 12-17 
Volleyball 12-17 25-34 18-24 
Weight Lifting 25-34 45-54 35-44 
Workout at Clubs 25-34 35-44 45-54 
Wrestling 12-17 25-34 7-11 
Yoga 25-34 35-44 45-54 
Did Not Participate 45-54 55-64 65-74 
 
Largest:  Age group with the highest rate of participation. 
Second Largest:  Age group with the second highest rate of participation. 
Third Largest:  Age group with the third highest rate of participation. 
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  6059  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
46 | Page  
National Sports Participation Trends:   Below are listed several sports activities and the 
percentage of growth or decline that each has experienced nationally over the last ten years (2013-
2022). 
 
Table I – National Activity Trend (in millions) 
 
Increase in Participation 2013 
Participation 
2022 
Participation 
Percent Increase 
Pickleball 1.7 6.4 276.5 
Table Tennis/Ping Pong 9.8 12.5 27.6 
Bicycle Riding 35.6 44.6 25.3 
Weightlifting 31.3 38.8 24.0 
Yoga 25.9 31.7 22.4 
Boxing 3.8 4.6 21.1 
Exercise Walking 96.3 113.9 18.3 
Volleyball 10.1 11.7 15.8 
Billiards/Pool 19.5 22.3 14.4 
Pilates 5.5 6.2 12.7 
Swimming 45.5 50.2 10.3 
Exercise w/ Equipment 53.1 58.2 9.6 
Running/Jogging 42.0 45.0 7.1 
Gymnastics 5.1 5.3 3.9 
Wrestling 3.1 3.1 0.0 
 
Decrease in Participation 2013 
Participation 
2022 
Participation 
Percent Decrease 
Basketball 25.5 23.2 -9.0% 
Cheerleading 3.5 3.1 -11.4% 
Workout @ Club 34.1 29.6 -13.2% 
Martial Arts/MMA 6.4 5.3 -17.2% 
 
2013 Participation: The number of participants per year in the activity (in millions) in the United States.  
2022 Participation: The number of participants per year in the activity (in millions) in the United States.  
Percent Change:  The percent change in the level of participation from 2013 to 2022. 
  
 
 
 
47 | Page  
Non-Sport Participation Statistics: It is important to note that participation rates in non -
sport activities.   While there is not an abundance of information available for participation in these 
types of activities as compared to sport activities, there are statistics that can be utilized to help 
determine the market for cultural arts activities and events.   
 
There are many ways to measure a nation’s cultural vitality.  One way is to chart the public’s 
involvement with arts events and other activities over time.  The NEA’s Survey of Public 
Participation in the Arts remains the largest periodic study of arts participation in the United States.  
It tracks various arts activities that Americans (aged 18 and over) report having done in a year.  It 
also asks questions about adults’ preferences for different kinds of music, and it seeks to 
understand participation in non-arts leisure events such as sports and exercise, outdoor activities, 
and civic and social affairs.  
 
The participation numbers for these activities are national numbers and the information falls into 
the following categories:  
 
• Attending Arts Activities 
• Reading Books and Literature 
• Consuming Art through Electronic Media 
• Making and Sharing Art 
• Participating in Arts Learning 
• Perceptions of Arts Availability 
 
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  6261  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
48 | Page  
Attending Arts Activities 
 
Table A – Percentage of U.S. Adult Attending a Performing Arts Activity at Least Once 
in the Past 12-Months 
 
 Rate of Change 
Music 2008 2012 2017 2008-2012 2012-2017 
Jazz 7.8% 8.1% 8.6% +0.3% +0.5% 
Classical Music 9.3% 8.8% 8.6% -0.5% -0.2% 
Opera 2.1% 2.1% 2.2% +0.0% +0.1% 
Latin Music 4.9% 5.1% 5.9% +0.2% +0.8% 
Outdoor Performing 
Arts Festival 
20.8% 20.8% 24.2% +0.0% +3.4% 
 
 
 Rate of Change 
Plays 2008 2012 2017 2008-2012 2012-2017 
Musical Plays 16.7% 15.2% 16.5% -1.5% +1.3% 
Non-Musical Plays 9.4% 8.3% 9.4% -1.1% +1.1% 
 
 
 Rate of Change 
Dance 2008 2012 2017 2008-2012 2012-2017 
Ballet 2.9% 2.7% 3.1% -0.2% +0.4% 
Other Dance 5.2% 5.6% 6.3% +0.4% +0.7% 
 
 
• Following a sharp decline in overall arts attendance that occurred from 2002-2008, 
participation rates held steady from 2008-2012, and have increased into 2017. 
 
• Changes in the U.S. demographic composition appear to have contributed to 
attendance in performing arts attendance.  Still, various subgroups of Americans have 
maintained or increased attendance rates for individual art forms.   
 
  
 
 
 
49 | Page  
Table B – Percentage of U.S. Adults Attending Visual Arts Activities and Events 
 
 Rate of Change 
 2008 2012 2017 2008-
2012 
2012-
2017 
Art Museums/Galleries 22.7% 21.0% 23.7% -1.7% +2.7% 
Parks/Historical Buildings 24.5% 22.4% 28.3% -2.1% +5.9% 
Craft/Visual Arts Festivals 24.9% 23.9% 23.8% -1.0% -0.1% 
 
• Visual arts attendance has declined significantly from 2002 to 2012 although has 
rebounded in 2017.  
 
 
Reading Books and Literature 
 
Table C– Reading Activity 
 
 Rate of Change 
 2008 2012 2017 2008-2012 2012-2017 
Read any Book, non-
required 
54.3% 54.6% 52.7% +0.3% -1.9% 
Literature 50.2% 47.0% 44.2% -3.2% -2.8% 
Novels and Short Stories 47.0% 45.2% 41.8% -1.8% -3.4% 
Plays 2.6% 2.9% 3.7% +0.3% +0.8% 
Poetry 8.3% 6.7% 11.7% -1.6% +5.0% 
 
 
Consuming Art Through Electronic Media 
 
Table D – Percentage of U.S. Adults Who Used Electronic Media to Consume Books or 
other Artistic, Arts-Related, and Literary Content Arts: 2017 
 
 Percentage 
Used Electronic Media to Consume Artistic or Arts Related Content 74% 
Read Any Books Using Electronic Media 23% 
Listen to Any Audiobooks 16% 
 
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  6463  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
50 | Page  
Table E – Percentage of Adults Who Used Electronic Media to Consume Art in the past 
12 months 
 
 Percentage 
Other Music5F 6 65% 
Classical Music or Opera 21% 
Jazz 20% 
Programs Info. About Book Writers 19% 
Lain, Spanish, or Salsa 19% 
Theater Productions (musical or stage play)6F 7 16% 
Paintings, Sculpture, Pottery or Other Visual Art 16% 
Dance Performances or programs 14% 
Programs and Info. About Visual Arts 14% 
 
 
Making and Sharing Art 
 
Table F – Percentage of American Adults Who Made Art in the Last 12 Months: 2017 
 
 Percentage 
Any Art 54% 
Performing Arts 40% 
Visual Arts 33% 
Creative Writing 7% 
 
Performing Arts include singing, playing any musical instrument, dancing, or acting.   
 
Visual Arts include painting, drawing, sculpting, or making prints, taking photographs, creating 
films, creating animations, digital arts, making potter, ceramics or jewelry, doing leatherwork, 
metalwork or woodwork, weaving, crocheting, quilting, knitting or sewing, scrapbooking, etc. 
 
Creative Writing includes fiction, nonfiction, poetry or plays.  
 
Table G – Percentage of American Adults Who Did Performing Arts 
 
 Percentage 
Singing 25% 
Dancing 24% 
Playing Musical Instrument 11% 
Creating or Performing Music  in Other Ways 3% 
Acting 2% 
Using Electronic Media to Edit or Remix Music 2% 
 
6 Rock, pop, country, folk, rap or hip-hop 
7 Musicals, plays or information about theatre. 
 
 
 
51 | Page  
Table H – Percentage of American Adults Who Did Visual Arts 
 
 Percentage 
Taking Photographs 14% 
Painting, Drawing, Sculpting, or Making Prints 13% 
Weaving, Crocheting, Quilting, Needleworking, Knitting 
or Sewing 
12% 
Editing Photographs 10% 
Doing Scrapbooking, Origami, or Other Paper-Based Art 7% 
Doing Leatherwork, Metalwork, or Woodwork 7% 
Creating Films or Videos 5% 
Making Pottery, Ceramics, or Jewelry 4% 
Designing or Creating Animations, Digital Art, Computer 
Graphics or Video Games  
3% 
 
Table I – Among Adults Who Made Art, Percentage Who Did So At Least Once a Week 
 
 Percentage 
Sing 70.2% 
Use Electronic Media to Edit or Remix Music 48.5% 
Play Any Musical Instrument 46.6% 
Take Photographs 45.2% 
Edit Photographs 38.5% 
Create or Performa Any Music In Other Ways 37.5% 
Creating Writing 34.3% 
Design or Create Animations, Digital Art, Computer 
Graphics or Video Games 
32.2% 
Weave, Crochet, Quilt, Neeedlework, Knot or Sew 26.2% 
Create Films or Videos 22.9% 
Dance 22.6% 
Paint, Draw, Sculpt or Make Prints 22.5% 
Act 20.8% 
Do Leatherwork, Metalwork, or Woodwork 20.6% 
Do Scrapbooking, Origami, or Other Paper-Based Art 14.0% 
Make Pottery, Ceramics or Jewelry 9.8% 
 
  
Appendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  6665  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
 
 
 
52 | Page  
Participating in Arts Learning 
 
Table J – Percentage of Adults Who Took Formal Art Lessons or Classes in Past 12 
Months 
 
 Percentage 
Any Type of Art 9.5% 
  
Visual Arts7F8 3.6% 
Music 2.7% 
Art History or Appreciation 2.1% 
Dance 1.9% 
Creative Writing 1.7% 
Computer Animation or Digital Art 1.8% 
Photography or Filmmaking 1.6% 
Acting or Theatre 0.6% 
 
Table K – Percentage of Adults Who Took Informal Art Lessons or Classes in Past 12 
Months 
 
 Percentage 
Any Type of Art 17.2% 
Music 10.3% 
Visual Arts 6.3% 
Photography or Filmmaking 5.3% 
Art History or Appreciation 4.9% 
Dance 3.5% 
Creative Writing 3.1% 
Acting or Theatre 1.8% 
Computer Animation or Digital Art N/A 
 
 
 
 
8 Drawing, Painting, Pottery, Weaving or Graphic Design 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan
Memo: Recreation Trends 
To: 
From: 
Date: 
City of Cheyenne: Jeanie Anderson-
Shrednik; Jason Sanchez 
Ballard*King and Design Workshop 
July 25, 2024
Project Name: Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master 
Plan 
Project #: 7172 
Subject: Recreation Trends Memo 
Understanding recreation trends is important to the current state of participation and demand.  
The following Recreation Trends memo provides insight into current national, state, and regional  
trends in recreation. This memo is intended to be a collection of all recreation data from local, 
state, and national sources. Select relevant information will be summarized within the Parks and 
Recreation Master Plan. The contents of this memo are organized as follows:  
• National Trends
• Wyoming Trends
• Cheyenne Area Popular Activities and Recreation Spending
• Facilities and Programs Review of National and Regional Trends
National Trends 
The recent pandemic resulted in a national shift in outdoor recreation trends, one being many 
people spending more time in parks and walking on trails. Walking for exercise and hiking on trails 
and pathways has long been the most popular recreation activity for adults. However, according to 
new studies from mobility data analytics firm Streetlight, walking activity has decreased by an 
average of 36% since 20190F
1. According to the National Parks and Recreation Association (NRPA), 
this data suggests walking is becoming primarily a form of recreation for health and less so a 
mode of transportation to destinations. This is an opportunity for staff and recreation 
programmers to incorporate more interactive and engaging activities into outdoor walking  as a 
fitness activity. Other outdoor recreation activities have increased national participation growth 
(around 80%) since the pandemic, like camping and fishing, climbing, and skateboarding 1F
2.  
Overall, national participation in sports and fitness has increased in 2022, with 77.6% of people 
participating in at least one physical activity (which continues to grow from previous years) 2F
3. 
Interestingly, the largest growth in participation in 2022 was racquet sports, with pickleball as the 
primary contributor. Additionally, team sports are seeing slow increases (23.2% in 2022) in 
participation, as participation heavily decreased during the pandemic, with water and outdoor 
sports showing similar growth patterns. Over the last ten years, sports and fitness have increased 
participation, with individual team sports as the exception. Individual sports have slightly declined 
from 2013 (43.3%) to 2023 (41.3%)3F
4. 
1 Industry Trends for 2024, NRPA (Jan 2024). Parks and Recreation.Org. 
2 2023 Outdoor Participation Trends Report. Outdoor Industry Association. 2023 Outdoor Participation Trends - Outdoor 
Industry Association 
3 Topline Participation Report, 2023 Sports & Fitness Industry Association 
4 Ibid 
Landscape Architecture 
Planning 
Urban Design 
Strategic Services 
Environmental Graphic Design 
22860 Two Rivers Road #1 
Basalt, Colorado 81621 
970.925.8354 
designworkshop.com 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORTAppendix A.3  |  CHEYENNE MARKET TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  6867  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
 
Wyoming Trends 
The 2017-2023 & 2024-2028 Wyoming Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plans ( 
SCORP)is currently used to understand current and future statewide trends. A yearly report by the 
Wyoming Outdoor Recreation, Tourism and Hospitality Initiative for Wyoming Outdoor Recreation 
also provides data. In Wyoming, a significant proportion of recreation activity occurs on public 
lands, especially State lands. Findings from the Recreation User Survey highlighted that 83% of 
participants had visited state parks within the past year. Moreover nearly 40% of those surveyed 
reported weekly participation in outdoor recreation. In 2022, 
outdoor recreation’s contribution to Wyoming’s GDP increased 
from 33% from $1.5 to $2 billion4F
5. This is significant on a national 
scale as outdoor recreation contributes more to Wyoming’s GDP 
(4.2%)5F
6 than any other state in the country except Hawaii, 
Vermont, and Montana. Comparatively, neighboring states such 
as Colorado and Utah saw 2.8% and 3.2% of their GDP coming 
from outdoor recreation, respectively6F
7. After Alaska, Wyoming has 
the most acres per capita for open spaces, trails, and hunting land, 
with tourism as Wyoming's second-largest industry, with outdoor 
recreation being a crucial component7F
8. The top financial 
contributors of select outdoor activities (see Figure 1) were snow 
activities, RVing, boating and fishing, followed by game areas 
(including golf and tennis).  Other economic impacts on outdoor 
recreation include equestrian use on trails, hiking, rock climbing, 
hunting and fishing, bicycling, skiing and snowshoeing and 
wildlife viewing. 
 
 
 
 
In local communities, hiking and walking were the most favored activities. However, when 
considering activities in broader categories, water sports—including rafting, swimming, paddling, 
canoeing, and boating—emerged as more popular8F
9. For visitors and travelers, hiking, backpacking, 
and trail running on trails and paths were notably prevalent, similar to local trends. Additionally, 
hunting, fishing, water sports, and camping also ranked highly in popularity.  The key distinction 
lies in the preferences of full-time residents, who place higher importance on accessibility, bike 
trails, and water sports or access. Visitors showed a slightly greater preference for RV camping 
sites, though there was overall strong interest in this option from all groups. 
 
In Laramie County, the leading activities were hiking/walking (81.8%), viewing natural scenery 
(77.9%), and driving for pleasure (75.5%). Residents expressed a desire to engage in horseback 
 
5 Bureau of Economic Analysis. Outdoor Recreation Satellite Account, U.S. and States, 2022. 
https://www.bea.gov/sites/default/files/2023-11/orsa1123-State.xlsx 
6 2024-2028 Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) 
7 Ibid 
8  2019-2023 Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) 
9 2024-2028 Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) 
Figure 1 Outdoor Industries. 
Source: 2024 Wyoming Outdoor 
Recreation Report 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
riding, ice skating, and snowmobiling. Across Wyoming, there is a growing interest in winter 
recreational activities such as ice skating, snowmobiling, cross-country skiing, and snowshoeing9F
10. 
 
Full-time residents identified overcrowding and the difficulty of securing reservations at 
recreational facilities as major concerns. The survey also revealed that most residents have access 
to at least one recreational amenity—such as a local park, trail, open space, or recreation center—
within a 10-minute walk from their home1 0F
11. However, geographic disparities were evident, with 
Crook County, Big Horn County, and Laramie County showing the highest percentages of 
respondents who reported no nearby recreational facility within a 10-minute walking distance. To 
address these concerns, there is a strong call for improvements in park facilities, particularly 
focusing on restrooms, community gathering spaces, and family and youth activities. Additionally, 
the need for better cleanliness, educational resources, signage, and hiking/multi -use trails was 
highlighted as crucial for enhancing recreational experiences in Wyoming communities.  
 
Wyoming is home to popular outdoor destinations such as Yellowstone National Park, Grand 
Teton National Park, Shoshone National Forest, Wind River Range, Medicine Bow National  
Forest, Jackson Hole, the Black Hills, and the Southern Rocky Mountains in Laramie County 
extending into northern Colorado1 1F
12. These popular destinations, abundant natural resources and 
diverse geographic landscapes, including 10.5 million of acres of forests, vast prairies, high plains 
desert, mountains, and over 100,000 miles of rivers and streams, and 173 natural hot springs make 
Wyoming an important outdoor recreation hub12 F
13. 75% of respondents said that the outdoor 
recreation demand in Wyoming had increased a lot in the past 5 years, and 64% said that outdoor  
recreation demand from their organization had increased over the past five years. 13 F
14 
 
In 2016, a task force called the Wyoming Outdoor Recreation Office (OREC) was created to 
promote outdoor recreation on a statewide level1 4F
15. Additionally, Wyoming holds partnerships with 
multiple federal, state, local and private agencies such as the National Park Service (NPS), Division 
of State Parks and Historic Sites and Trails (SPHST), Wyoming State Trails Advisory Council (Trails 
Council), United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), Land and Water Conservation Fund 
(LWCF), and many others. 
 
Initiatives such as the Recreate Responsibly Coalition, which started during the pandemic, created 
a national movement to protect natural spaces when many outdoor spaces were overwhelmed 
with users. In partnership with the Wyoming Outdoor Recreation Office (OREC), the Wyoming 
Office of Tourism (WOT) has embraced the Recreate Responsibly using #WYresponsibly through 
social media. This campaign and others like Leave No Trace (LNT) and Tread Lightly! have 
significantly influenced outdoor recreation and public land use 1 5F
16. In 2022, Laramie County initiated 
its own campaign called the Cowboy Character Challenge to incentivize lesser-known recreation 
areas while following a “Cowboy Code of Ethics” incorporating Leave No Trace values to help 
 
10 2017-2023 Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) 
11 2024-2028 Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) 
12 Webster, G. Raymond and McNamee, Gregory Lewis (2024, January 12). Wyoming. Encyclopedia Britannica. 
https://www.britannica.com/place/Wyoming-state 
13 2023 Wyoming Outdoor Recreation Report, Wyoming Office of Outdoor Recreation. WYOREC Report Spring 2023.pdf 
14 2024-2028 Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) 
15 2023 Wyoming Outdoor Recreation Report, Wyoming Office of Outdoor Recreation. WYOREC Report Spring 2023.pdf 
16 ibid 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  7069  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
preserve and protect the natural lands16 F
17. The Cowboy Character Challenge is a great opportunity 
for visitors and locals to do more outdoor recreation and explore Laramie County.  
 
Off-road vehicle usage has grown in recent years, with 14,000 new users in Wyoming in 2021 and 
significant projects underway such the Southwest Wyoming Off-Road Trails state project 
connecting hundreds of miles of trails. The Pilot Hill Area protection of 7,100 acres in adjacent 
Albany County is another effort of statewide importance and will provide access to more than 32 
miles of non-motorized trails. Another important note about statewide outdoor recreation projects 
is the Governor’s March 2024 singing of an outdoor recreation funding bill into law (House Bill 67) 
creating a recurring biennial $6 million appropriation to the trust fund from the state’s tourism 
reserve and projects account. This is expected to result in grants for outdoor recreation, public 
lands acquisition and infrastructure projects such as trails planning, design, construction, and 
maintenance. 1 7F
18 
 
Cheyenne Area Popular Activities and Recreation Spending 
AAccttiivviittiieess  DDaattaa  
This analysis uses the ESRI Business Analyst Sports and Leisure Market Potential Report 2023 to 
help identify the most popular outdoor activities within the Cheyenne area. The Sports and Leisure 
Market Potential Report is a point of reference for the most popular activities by the number of 
adults who have participated in them in the past 12 months. These data are based upon national 
propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. 
Usage and consumer attitudes data were collected by MRI-Simmons in a nationally representative 
survey of U.S. households.  
 
The Market Potential Index (MPI) shows the likelihood that an adult resident will participate in the 
identified activities compared to the national average in the past 12 months. The national MPI 
average is 100; therefore, numbers below 100 represent a lower-than-average participation rate, 
and numbers above 100 represent a higher-than-average participation rate. MPI data also 
compares the estimated percentage of the U.S. populations and local populations participating in 
each activity. High index numbers (100+) are significant because they demonstrate greater 
potential for residents to participate in programs and a need for related facilities. The MPI and 
estimated participant numbers are helpful tools for estimating resident participation in identified 
activities and projecting the need for facilities in the future. However, the number of expected 
adults is not exact and excludes the youth demographic. 
 
Table 1 compares outdoor activity-based trends and the likelihood that an adult resident within 
Cheyenne will participate in the identified activities compared to the national average. The 
Cheyenne activities are defined by four categories: General Sports, Fitness, Outdoor Activity and 
Money Spent on Recreation 
• The top three MPI activities in General Sports are golf, basketball, and tennis.  
• The top three MPI activities in Fitness are walking for exercise, weightlifting, and 
jogging/running. 
• The top three MPI Outdoor Activities are barbequing, hiking, and swimming. 
Overall, the most popular activities for adults in Cheyenne are walking for exercise (35% of the 
population), barbequing (33%), hiking (20%), swimming (16%), weightlifting (14%), and overnight 
 
17 What It's Like to Do the Cowboy Character Challenge. Visit Laramie. The Cowboy Character Challenge and Why It Matters 
| Visit Laramie #CowboyCharacterChallenge 
18 2024 Wyoming Outdoor Recreation Report, Wyoming Outdoor Recreation, Tourism and Hospitality Initiative  
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
camping (14%). The activities with significantly higher percentage participation than the U.S. 
population are golf, canoeing/kayaking, bicycling (mountain), backpacking, yoga, swimming, 
fishing and frisbee. These interests might be indicative of the access to recreation in nature 
available in the region. None of the participation in activities are radically lower than the U.S. 
averages, with only soccer (87 MPI), horseback riding (87 MPI) and softball (86 MPI) following 
below 95% MPI. 
 
*MPI measures probable demand for the adult market compared to the national average. 
Product/Consumer Behavior Expected # of adults Percent MPI* 
General Sports       
Golf 4,485 8.7% 110 
Basketball 2,792 5.4% 95 
Tennis 2,011 3.9% 102 
Soccer 1,414 2.7% 87 
Baseball 1,257 2.4% 95 
Volleyball 1,214 2.4% 100 
Football 1,167 2.3% 95 
Softball 722 1.4% 86 
Fitness Activities       
Walking for exercise 18,026 35% 103 
Weightlifting 7,192 14% 99 
Jogging/running 6,000 11.6% 103 
Yoga 5,958 11.6% 106 
Aerobics 4,317 8.4% 100 
Pilates 1,406 2.7% 97 
Outdoor Activities       
Barbecued 16,945 32.9% 103 
Hiking 10,036 19.5% 103 
Swimming 8,151 15.8% 105 
Overnight camping 7,235 14% 104 
Bicycling (road) 6,132 11.9% 99 
Fishing (fresh water) 5,710 11.1% 105 
Canoeing/kayaking 4,207 8.2% 109 
Birdwatching 3,798 7.4% 101 
Target Shooting 2,595 5% 101 
Boating (power)  2,455 4.8% 99 
Bicycling (mountain) 2,015 3.9% 109 
Backpacking 1,945 3.8% 106 
Frisbee 1,854 3.6% 105 
Skiing (downhill) 1,311 2.5% 99 
Archery 1,206 2.3% 96 
Ice Skating 1,133 2.2% 99 
Horseback Riding 859 1.7% 87 
Roller Skating 800 1.6% 97 
Archery 1,206 2.3% 96 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  7271  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
Table 1 Cheyenne Participatory Market Potential  
Source: ESRI Business Analyst Sports + Leisure Market Potential Report and Recreation Expenditures Report 
2023 
 
RReeccrreeaattiioonn  SSppeennddiinngg  iinn  CChheeyyeennnnee  AArreeaa 
 
Table 2 outlines Cheyenne’s consumer behavior regarding spending on sports and recreational 
equipment across different expenditure brackets. It shows that the $250+ spending category has 
the highest expected number of adults, with a moderate Market Potential Index (MPI) compared to 
the other categories, suggesting a slightly higher inclination to spend within this bracket than the 
U.S. average. The spending categories for $100-$249 and $1-99 both exhibit lower MPI values, with 
a slightly lesser inclination to spend within this bracket than the U.S. average.  
 
Product/Consumer Behavior Expected # of 
adults Percent MPI 
$250+ on sports/rec equip 5,443 10.6% 103 
$100-$249 on sports/rec equip 3,208 6.2% 99 
$1-99 on sports/rec equip 3,403 6.6% 95 
Table 2 Cheyenne Sports/Recreation Spending on Equipment 
Source: ESRI Business Analyst Sports + Leisure Market Potential Report and Recreation Expenditures Report 
 
The ESRI Business Analyst Recreation Expenditures Report looks at the annual spending potential 
for five categories: TV/Audio/Video, Entertainment/Recreation Fees and Admissions, Recreational 
Vehicles and Fees, Sports, Recreation and Exercise Equipment, and Photographic Equipment and 
Supplies (Table 3). Information about non recreation/outdoor interests are included for spending 
comparison to those highlighted in yellow. In 2023, Cheyenne residents spent a total of 
$29,642,655 on TV/Audio/Video, followed by $15,579,895 on Entertainment and Recreation Fees 
and Admissions18 F
19. $6,370,501 was spent on Sports, Recreation and Exercise in Cheyenne. Table 3 
shows the different detailed expenditures falling under each of the five categories contributing to 
the total recreational expenditure by the residents of Cheyenne. Spending on membership fees for 
social/recreation/health clubs is considerable ($210.08 on average and $6.1 million total) and 
exercise equipment and gear, game tables ($77.11 on average and $2.2 million total) which is 
relevant in consideration of the opportunities that Cheyenne recreation facilities provide. 
 
Activity Spending Potential Index Average Amount Spent Total 
TV/Video/Audio 75 $1022.41 $29,642,655 
Entertainment/Recreation Fees and 
Admissions 75 $537.37 $15,579,895 
Membership Fees for 
Social/Recreation/Health Clubs 76 $210.08 $6,090,988 
Fees for Recreational Lessons 72 $105.05 $3,045,824 
Fees for Participant Sports, excl.Trips 77 $91.84 $2,662,857 
Admission to Sporting Events, excl.Trips 76 $44.51 $1,290,415 
Tickets to Theatre/Operas/Concerts 76 $41.56 $1,205,015 
Tickets to Parks or Museums 78 $21.80 $631,944 
Tickets to Movies 79 $21.72 $629,752 
Dating Services 75 $0.80 $23,101 
 
19 ESRI Business Analyst Sports + Leisure Market Potential Report and Recreation Expenditures Report 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
Recreational Vehicles and Fees 70 $105.67 $3,063,680 
Payments on Boats/Trailers/Campers/RVs 74 $49.63 $1,438,985 
Camp Fees 63 $23.42 $678,944 
Rental of Boats/Trailers/Campers/RVs 73 $21.96 $636,568 
Docking and Landing Fees for Boats and 
Planes 70 $10.66 $309,182 
Sports, Recreation and Exercise Equipment 78 $219.73 $6,370,501 
Exercise Equipment and Gear, Game 
Tables  79 $77.11 $2,235,610 
Hunting and Fishing Equipment 81 $54.54 $1,581,415 
Bicycles 77 $43.78 $1,269,259 
Camping Equipment 79 $15.58 $451,737 
Water Sports Equipment 77 $10.98 $318,484 
Other Sports Equipment 70 $7.76 $225,006 
Winter Sports Equipment 72 $7.11 $206,173 
Rental/Repair of Sports/Recreation/Exercise 
Equipment 76 $2.44 $70,879 
Photographic Equipment and Supplies 77 $35.84 $1,038,967 
Reading 76 $96.76 $2,805,456 
Table 3 Cheyenne 2023 Recreation Expenditures 
Source: ESRI Business Analyst Recreation Expenditures 
 
Facilities and Programs Review of National and Regional Trends  
 
The following is a review of regional and national recreation facility and program trends  within 
parks and recreation agencies.   
 
GGeenneerraall  
 
Public parks and recreation agencies have been tested in the last 10 to 20 years to alter their 
approach to providing parks and recreation services.  This has been based on the following:  
 
Increasing Demands – Ever increasing facility, program, and service demands from the public.  
 
Inclusiveness – The requirement that agencies provide access to facilities, programs, and services 
to an ever more diverse population.  This includes meeting the needs of different ethnic groups, 
economic status, age, and ability.   
 
Cost Effectiveness - A demand that parks and recreation agencies be more cost effective in their 
development and operations of services and facilities. 
 
Measurable Outcomes – A strong need to be able to quantify the results and benefits of the 
programs and facilities that are provided.  Establishing well-defined levels of service (LOS) are 
critical. 
 
As a result of these factors, the following general parks and recreation best practices have been 
adopted. 
 
• Parks and recreation agencies have a clear vision statement regarding their roles and 
responsibilities in providing services to their constituents. 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  7473  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
 
• The vision statement is backed up by a number of pointed goals.  These goals are updated 
on an annual basis.  
 
• Utilizing the vision and goals, a professional and updated master plan is in place to guide 
future development and operations of parks and recreation facilities and programs.  
 
• There are on-going, long-range, planning efforts to position the agency for success in the 
future. 
 
• There are comprehensive diversity, equity, and inclusion policies in place to guide agency 
operations and management.  
 
• There is a realization that an agency cannot effectively be all things to all people in the 
delivery of parks and recreation services and facilities.  As a result, specific areas of focus 
are determined, and certain functions are left to other organizations and entities. 
 
• Careful analysis is done to determine which services should be provided in-house and 
which should be contracted to other providers. 
 
• There is strong record keeping that allows for trends and directional analysis.  This also 
results in the development of specific performance measurements.  For this to be effective 
there must be full computerization of all management records.  This includes program 
registration, point of sale, rentals, facility scheduling, timecard management, maintenance, 
etc. 
 
• There are well written and comprehensive policies and procedures in place that cover all 
aspects of an agency’s management and operation.  These are updated on a regular basis.  
 
• Virtually every aspect of an agency’s operation is evaluated, tracked, and measured on a 
regular basis. 
 
RReeccrreeaattiioonn  FFaacciilliittiieess  
 
Developing and managing a variety of recreation facilities is the main focus of public agencies in 
larger communities.  The types of facilities that are now being provided by parks and recreation 
departments have become more diverse, and expensive to acquire, develop and maintain.  As a 
result, establishing a master plan is critical to determining facility development roles, timelines, 
and priorities.  
 
National Recreation and Park Association (NRPA) – NRPA’s 2023 Agency Performance Review 
document has specific information on recreation facilities that are provided by park and recreation 
agencies nationally. 
 
Amenities Percentage 
of Agencies 
Median Number of 
Residents per Facility 
(50-99,999 pop) 
Recreation Centers 63% 38,018 
Community Centers 59% 53,331 
Outdoor Swimming Pools 41% 67,139 
Indoor Aquatic Centers 37% 60,495 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
Senior Centers 33% 71,360 
Amphitheaters 28% 60,116 
Nature Centers 20% 64,150 
Stadiums 13% 58,174 
Indoor Ice Rinks 12% 53,224 
Teen Centers 8% 68,208 
Arenas 63% 38,018 
 
Responsibilities of Parks and Recreation Agencies Nationally 
 
Responsibilities Percentage 
of Agencies 
Provide Recreation Programs and Services 94% 
Operate and Maintain Indoor Facilities 91% 
Operate and Maintain Trails, Greenways  84% 
Conduct Community Wide Special Events 80% 
Operate & Maintain Non-Park Sites 68% 
Operate, Maintain, Contract Outdoor Swim Facilities 66% 
Administer/Manage Outdoor Sports Complex  57% 
Manage Outdoor Amphitheaters 38% 
Operate, Maintain or Contract Golf Courses 35% 
Operate, Maintain Contract Indoor Swim Facilities 31% 
Maintain, Manage, Lease Indoor Performing Arts Ctr. 20% 
 
Recreation/Community Centers – Recreation/Community centers are usually developed on three 
levels. 
Clubhouse/Community Building – smaller buildings that are designed to serve as a 
community room(s) for individual neighborhoods.  The size is usually less than 5,000 sq.ft. 
and requires less than 3 acres.  These amenities are usually located next to a neighborhood 
pool or park.   
 
Community Center – are larger community buildings with multiple, more passive use, 
spaces that serve an area of a community.  These vary in size and amenities and can range 
from 5,000 to over 20,000 sq.ft. and requires 3-5 acres.  This level of center can also be 
combined with a comprehensive community recreation center or community aquatic 
center.  These centers are usually part of a community park.   
 
Comprehensive Community Recreation Center – this is a large center that contains both 
active (pool, gym, fitness, etc.) and passive use elements (community rooms) and is 
designed to serve a substantial geographic area (30,000 or more).  The facility is usually 
over 40,000 sq.ft. to as much as 80,000 sq.ft. and requires 8 acres or more.  These are often 
developed through a partnership with other organizations or other groups (YMCA, etc.).  
These centers are normally part of a community or regional park.   
 
Senior Center – A center that has a focus on senior services from recreation to education 
and social services.  These centers can be as small as 10,000 sq.ft. to over 50,000 sq.ft. 
depending on the amenities that are included.  More traditional centers have a strong 
passive use orientation with a large multi-purpose room and a commercial kitchen that 
supports a daily lunch program and larger events and programs. There are also usually 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  7675  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
smaller classrooms, card rooms, game rooms, small libraries and other amenities.  More 
cutting-edge centers have cafes, multi-purpose rooms and active use spaces including 
fitness areas, gyms and even swimming pools.  There is also a movement away from 
developing standalone senior centers and integrating these into community recreation 
centers to provide greater opportunities for the more active senior.  Most senior centers 
are also standalone facilities and not part of a larger community recreation center.      
 
Specialized Facilities – This includes unique facilities such as aquatic centers, nature/interpretative 
center, amphitheater, tennis centers, and other amenities.  The following is a breakdown of basic 
specialized facilities.  
 
Aquatic Centers – Aquatic centers or swimming pools are usually developed on four levels. 
 
Neighborhood – smaller pools that are designed to serve specific neighborhoods.  
The bather load is usually less than 500.  These amenities are often built next to a 
neighborhood park.   
 
 Community – larger pools that serve a community.  These vary in size and 
amenities (competitive to recreational) and can range from a bather load of 500 to 
over 1,000.  They are developed as part of a community park.   
 
 Regional – these are large water parks or competitive pools that are designed to 
serve a significant geographic area.  They usually contain an expansive recreational 
pool but can also have a strong competitive focus.  Bather loads are 1,000 or more.  
These are often developed through a partnership with other organizations.  They 
would be located in a regional park or as a standalone facility.   
 
 Splash pad – many communities are either replacing existing neighborhood pools 
with splash pads or adding them to the inventory of aquatic facilities.    
 
The vast majority of aquatic centers in Wyoming are in the community category and there 
are an increasing number of splash pads being built.   
 
Performing Arts Center – A performing arts center is a regional indoor facility with a large 
theater.  Seating can vary from 300 to over 1,000.  The center can be 30,000 to 70,000 sq.ft. 
and requires 8 acres or more.  This type of center is normally developed by a number of 
organizations or large communities.  They can be located as part of a larger civic campus, 
in conjunction with a comprehensive recreation center, or as an amenity in a regional park.  
 
By their sheer size and cost, these types of facilities are not being built in significant 
numbers in most communities in Wyoming (or even nationally).  Many communities do 
have smaller PAC’s or utilize community center rooms (usually with flat floors) for  these 
types of activities.  In some communities that do have a PAC, they are at times managed 
and operated by other entities than parks and recreation.     
 
Fieldhouse – Steadily gaining in popularity is an indoor sports facility that features hard 
court gym space and/or turf-based fields for sports such as soccer, lacrosse, football and 
even softball and baseball.  These buildings support both youth and adult sports lea gues, 
tournaments and camps.  They tend to be most popular in colder climates but are also 
being built in very hot regions of the country.  These facilities are either built as standalone 
amenities or may be included in recreation centers in a regional park.  These facilities are 
not prevalent in Wyoming as public amenities.     
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
Tennis/Pickleball Center – An 8-24 lighted court complex on 2-4 acres that has a stadium 
court, central restroom, concession, and pro-shop area. Tennis Centers are not prevalent in 
Wyoming. Many communities are converting tennis courts to pickleball or adding 
pickleball courts.    
 
Amphitheater – An amphitheater can be either a community sized amenity (under 1,000 
seats, some permanent and some lawn with a small stage and storage area) or a large 
regional facility (1,000 to 3,000 seats, some permanent and some lawn with a large, 
covered stage, restrooms and concessions).  An amphitheater requires 2 to 4 acres of land 
with a community facility being located in a community park and a regional facility in a 
regional park.   
 
Nature Center/Interpretive Center – A small indoor and outdoor space (usually under 
10,000 sq.ft.) for viewing and observing nature as well as for classroom space and exhibits.  
A nature center is usually located in conjunction with a preserve or open space area.  This 
type of indoor facility is not common in many Wyoming communities.     
 
Other Recreation Facility Trends 
 
• Many communities are now developing an indoor facility level of service (LOS) standard 
that is between 1 sq.ft. to 2 sq.ft. per person.  
  
• The development of capital replacement budgets for key facility amenities with an 
established funding source. 
 
• Outsourcing operations and management to other organizations.  This is particularly true 
for specialty facilities. 
 
• Much stronger emphasis on generating revenues to offset the cost of operations.  
 
• Moving away from smaller community buildings and neighborhood pools to more 
comprehensive facilities that serve a larger population base.   
 
• Comprehensive tracking of operations, utilization, and budget metrics to justify facilities.    
 
• For new facilities it is common for the following to occur: 
o The completion of a feasibility study to determine need, site, amenities, capital and 
operations costs.   
o Identification of specific funding sources for capital and operations 
o Integration of the public into the planning and development.   
  
RReeccrreeaattiioonn  PPrrooggrraammss  
 
It is important to understand the trends that have been seen nationally and regionally with 
recreation programming over the last 10 plus years.  
 
Recreation Participation Numbers and Trends   
 
The following are some general summaries of recreation participation statistics from a variety of 
sources. 
 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  7877  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
National Sporting Goods Association (NSGA) – Their annual survey (2023) indicates the ranking of 
the top 10 sports activities nationally as well as the level of participation. This information is 
included in the Market Report. 
 
Sports & Fitness Industry Association (SFIA) – Their 2023 Sports, Fitness and Leisure Activities 
Top-Line Participation Report indicated the rate of participation by major sports activity categories 
over the last 6 years. 
 
Percentage of Participation Comparisons  
 
Activity Category 2017 
Percentage 
2022 
Percentage 
1. Fitness Sports 65.5% 67.4% 
2. Outdoor Sports 49.0% 55.0% 
3. Individual Sports 46.2% 41.3% 
4. Team Sports 22.6% 23.2% 
5. Water Sports 13.8% 14.4% 
6. Racquet Sports 13.3% 16.4% 
7. Winter Sports 8.3% 8.0% 
 
Fitness related sports continued to be the most popular activity category, but racquet sports have 
shown the greatest percentage increase over the last six years due in large part to pickleball.  
Team sports, water sports, and outdoor sports have all seen an increase as well.  Individual sports 
and winter sports have seen a decrease in participation. 
 
Much of the participation data was affected by COVID-19 during 2020.  Key impacts include: 
 
• Fitness activities that require amenities typically found in fitness clubs (group exercise, 
stationary cycling, cross-training, aqua exercise, etc.) decreased in numbers. 
 
• Fitness activities that require limited equipment and do not require a fitness center 
(running/jogging, free weights, and yoga) showed the greatest increases. 
 
• Outdoor activities that experienced large increases were road biking, skateboarding, and 
surfing.   
 
• Team sports had a mixed impact with basketball and soccer having increases (mostly 
attributed to pick-up play) while volleyball, swimming on a team, gymnastics and 
cheerleading all had decreases.    
 
Top Activities with Intent to Participate by Age 
 
Age 6-12 Age 13-17 Age 16-24 Age 25-34 
Fishing Fishing Workout w/Weights Fishing 
Camping Swimming for Fitness Running/Jogging Camping 
Soccer Basketball Workout w/Machines Workout w/Weights 
Running/Jogging Running/Jogging Cardio Fitness Running/Jogging 
Swimming for Fitness Martial Arts Yoga Cardio Fitness 
Hunting Workout w/Weights Basketball Yoga 
Sledding Camping Hiking Hiking 
Shooting Cardio Fitness Shooting Workout w/Machines 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
Baseball Soccer Camping Basketball 
7 on7 Football Hunting Volleyball Shooting 
  
Age 35-44 Age 45-54 Age 55-64 Age 65+ 
Fishing Fishing Fishing Fishing 
Camping Camping Shooting Camping 
Workout w/Weights Cardio Fitness Camping Cardio Fitness 
Cardio Fitness Workout w/Machines Workout w/Weights Swimming for Fitness 
Workout w/Machines Workout w/Weights Swimming for Fitness Workout w/Machines 
Yoga Hiking Hunting Workout w/Weights 
Running/Jogging Shooting Workout w/Machines Shooting 
Swimming for Fitness Swimming for Fitness Hiking Yoga 
Shooting Yoga Cardio Fitness Hunting 
Hiking Hunting Running/Jogging Hiking 
 
The most popular activities that all age groups intend to participate in are generally fitness or 
outdoor recreation related.   
 
National Recreation and Park Association (NRPA) – NRPA’s 2023 Agency Performance Review 
document has specific information on programming that is offered by park and recreation 
agencies nationally. 
 
Program Percentage of Agencies 
Themed Special Events 89% 
Social Recreation Events 88% 
Team Sports 86% 
Fitness Enhancement Classes 81% 
Health & Wellness Education 80% 
Individual Sports 77% 
Safety Training 71% 
Racquet Sports 71% 
Aquatics 69% 
Performing Arts 63% 
Visual Arts 62% 
Natural and Cultural History Activities 62% 
Cultural Crafts 61% 
Trips and Tours 61% 
Martial Arts 57% 
Running/Cycling Races 52% 
Golf 48% 
eSports/eGaming 23% 
 
Recreation Management Magazine – Annually the magazine prints their State of the Industry 
Report that examines trends in parks and recreation.  Their 2023 report indicated the following as it 
relates to recreation programs and services. 
 
Programming Most Commonly Offered in 2023 
 
Activity Category Percent of Agencies 
1. Holiday and Other Special Events 57.2% 
2. Day Camps/Summer Camps 54.3% 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  8079  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
3. Fitness Programs 52.8% 
4. Group Exercise Programs 52.8% 
5. Educational Programs 51.2% 
6. Youth Sports Teams 50.3% 
7. Mind-Body Balance Programs (Yoga) 43.0% 
8. Arts & Crafts Programs 41.3% 
9. Sports Tournaments & Races 39.3% 
10. Swimming Programs 38.4% 
 
Most Commonly Planned Program Additions in 2023 
 
Activity Category Percent of Agencies 
11. Mind-Body Balance Programs (Yoga) 29.9% 
12. Fitness Programs 27.9% 
13. Group Exercise Programs 27.9% 
14. Educational Programs 25.9% 
15. Arts & Crafts Programs 21.9% 
16. Teen Programs 21.9% 
17. Functional Fitness Programs 21.4% 
18. Performing Arts Programs 21.4% 
19. Environmental Education 20.9% 
20. Holidays and Other Special Events 20.4% 
 
There is a wide range of program areas that public parks and recreation agencies planned to add 
in 2023.  Outdoor Foundation – The 2023 Outdoor Participation Report indicates the most popular 
outdoor activities by rate of participation. 
 
Activity National Participation  
(In millions) 
1. Hiking 59.6 
2. Running 58.9 
3. Biking 54.7 
4. Fishing 54.5 
5. Camping 51.4 
      
A record 168.1 million individuals participated in outdoor recreation (55% of the U.S. Population ).  
The rate of participation in outdoor activities increased by 2.3% over the last year but the number 
of outings per participant decreased.  Growth in participation was highest among adults who have 
children in their household.   
 
Diversity is increasing significantly in participants.  Black participation increased by 5%, although 
still lags other racial/ethnic groups.   
 
Activity Annual Growth Rate 
1. Snowshoeing 21.0% 
2. Camping 12.0% 
3. Cross-Country Skiing 8.5% 
4. BMX Bicycling 8.3% 
 
Specific Recreation Program Trends   
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
 
Below are shown current recreation program trends by major program areas as  developed by 
Ballard*King & Associates.  However, it should be noted that each community is unique, and this 
has a strong bearing on individual trends and other operational factors.   
 
Specific Recreation Program and Service Trends 
 
Area Specific Programs 
Sports Youth Lacrosse 
 Adult Soccer 
 Adult Cricket 
 Youth & Adult Rugby 
 Pickleball 
 Youth Camps and Clinics 
 Individual Sports (Fencing) 
 Adventure/Non-Traditional (BMX, Mountain Biking, Disc Golf, Ultimate 
Frisbee) 
 E-Sports Competitions and Tournaments 
 Youth Sports Specific Training 
Fitness/Wellness Functional Training Classes 
 Personal/Small Group Training 
 Yoga 
 Nutrition/Cooking 
 Healthy Lifestyle Education 
Cultural Arts Music Production for Youth 
 Digital Media 
Youth Before and After School Programs at Recreation Centers, Specialty 
Summer Camps 
Education Camps, STEAM  
Outdoor Eco-Tourism 
 Environmental Education 
Seniors Fitness/Wellness 
 Sports (pickleball) 
 Baby Boomer Focused Activities 
Aquatics Therapy 
 Triathlon Training  
General Interest Personal Finance 
 Cooking 
Special Events Community Wide Events 
 Health and Wellness 
Social Services Feeding Programs, Job Training, Educational Support, Childcare 
Other Virtual Programming 
 
Other Programming Trends 
  
• Recreation departments now often serve as a coordinating agency and a clearinghouse for 
multiple recreation organizations and providers, in an effort to bring a comprehensive 
scope of recreation programs to a community.  This has also increased the number of 
partnerships that are in place to deliver a broader base of programs in a more cost-
effective manner.   
 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  8281  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
• There is a greater emphasis on a fee for service concept, especially for more specialized 
programming.  This is supported by a formal fee policy.   
 
• Programming continues to emphasize the needs of youth and seniors but has also focuses 
more on adults, and the family unit.   
 
• Specific programming development trends include.  
o Virtual programming remains even after COVID. 
o Developing programs that are single day or no more than 4 sessions in length.  
o Developing programs for youth during non-school days, Christmas break, spring 
break and any other extended breaks. 
o Offering a variety of summer camps with different areas of interest. 
o More Saturday programs and the introduction of some Sunday programming 
(especially in adult sports leagues).  
o Senior programming that occurs in the evening or on the weekends to appeal to 
seniors who are still in the work force.   
o Introducing programs that are oriented toward specific ethnic groups. 
o Developing a baseline of programs that appeal to the family unit. 
o Staggering the days and times of similar programs that are offered at multiple 
locations.  
o Drop-in pay as you go fitness classes. 
o Expanded senior programming to include a greater focus on the Baby Boomer 
generation which often means programs and services that are available in the 
evenings and on weekends and those that have a more active orientation.   
 
• There has been a concerted effort to integrate conventional recreation programming with 
community based social service programs and education.  Most of the social service 
programs are offered by other community-based agencies and education is often 
coordinated with school districts. 
 
• Program characteristics (performance measures) are tracked including:  
o Program registration comparisons by year for each season. 
o Rates of fill (especially for fee-based programming). 
o Participation numbers and comparisons to past years/seasons. 
o Rate of program cancellations (for fee-based programming). 
o Financial performance including cost per participant. 
o Evaluations from participants. 
 
• A lifecycle analysis is completed for all programs offered by the agency.  Programs are 
classified in three categories and agencies strive to have program offerings distributed 
equally among each category. 
o New – programs in the start-up phase that are just starting to build in popularity. 
o Mature – programs that have consistent high levels of registrations and are still 
growing in popularity. 
o Old – programs that are seeing a decline in popularity 
 
Organizational and Management Planning 
 
In an effort to become more efficient and effective in the delivery of parks and recreation services, 
there is a greater emphasis on organizational and management planning.  
 
Organizational Structure 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
 
• Organizational structures have become more streamlined with direct lines of responsibility 
established.  There are now fewer mid-management positions. 
 
• While most agencies still include both parks and recreation functions, there continues to be 
a trend of placing parks functions within public works.  This is particularly true for smaller 
cities.  
 
• A number of cities have preserves, open space and greenway divisions, some of which are 
separate departments within the organization.  
 
• Facilities and recreation programming that can generate strong revenues are often placed 
outside the normal organizational structure as enterprise funds. 
 
• Most organizational structures tend to be functionally based, but in larger communities 
there can also be a geographic structure as well.  This can be based on areas or regions of 
a community where there are multiple facilities or parks that need to be managed or 
maintained. 
 
• Hiring and retaining both full-time and part-time staff has become much more difficult and 
has resulted in significant increases in part-time pay rates as well as some increases in full-
time salaries.  
 
• There is a stronger focus on full-time staff to reduce the dependence on part-time staff.  
The level of movement to full-time staffing reflects the levels of service that have been 
established, any seasonal operations, and the budget requirements of the de partment.  
 
• There is a formal communications protocol in place.  Staff meetings for all segments of the 
organization are held on a regular basis and the minutes and actions are documented.  
 
• It is greater emphasis on having strong leadership at the administrative level that is 
supported by an overall team concept.  Mid-managers (or supervisors) have the primary 
responsibility for directly managing line staff and facilities.  
 
• There are conduct standards in place for all staff as well as a strong DEI policy in place.  
 
• There is a formal, annual, staff training program with adequate levels of funding.  
 
• To minimize the reliance on paid staff, establishing a strong volunteer program is often in 
place.  To effectively make use of volunteers there must be a staff person who is 
responsible for managing and recruiting volunteers.  If the program becomes large 
enough, then a full-time volunteer coordinator position is often necessary. 
 
Staffing Philosophy 
 
• Agencies have a well-defined staffing philosophy that clearly defines the role and 
responsibilities for all staff. 
 
• A determination of key positions that need to be full-time and those that are appropriate 
for part-time status is made to ensure a strong staffing plan. 
 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  8483  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
• Job descriptions for all full-time and part-time staff are in place that accurately describe the 
job requirements and skills that are necessary for the position. 
 
• There are basic staffing standards for common facilities such as community and recreation 
centers as well as aquatic centers and other facilities (senior centers, etc.). 
 
• The role of contract positions is growing, especially for program instructors and specialized 
services. 
 
• Union issues often dictate staffing plans, schedules and management practices.  
 
• Staff is empowered and expected to make important management and supervisory 
decisions but are also held accountable for the performance of their areas.  Supervisory 
staff have budget responsibilities as well. 
 
• Levels of service are established based on number of FTE’s per thousand of population, 
acreage maintained, and facilities operated. 
 
• Full-time staff are cross trained to handle most operational or supervisory responsibilities 
for a variety of program areas and facilities. 
 
• The staffing philosophy is backed up by a comprehensive staff manual that is updated 
regularly to guide staffing standards and regulations. 
 
• Background checks are completed on all new hires, including volunteers, especially those 
that have direct contact with youth. 
 
• Agencies have developed succession plans to ensure staffing knowledge is not 
compromised when they leave employment of retire.   
 
Performance Evaluation 
 
• Full-time staff have an annual performance review completed that clearly indicates areas of 
excellence, areas of compliance and where improvements should be made.  Detailed and 
specific annual work plans are developed for each full-time and major part-time staff 
member, and these are monitored by their direct supervisor on a regular basis.  The work 
plans cover issues such as budget development, financial transactions, programming, 
marketing, community outreach and staff interaction and communication.  It is important 
to have measurable benchmarks and outputs for each plan.  Staff is then held accountable 
to meet these goals. 
 
• There is a strong staff training and education program in place to provide opportunities for 
staff growth and improvement.  The staff training program focuses on financial 
transactions, customer service, program development, budgeting, revenue growth, and 
maintenance functions, emergency procedures, safety concerns, and facility operations.  A 
specific training program for new hires, including part-time and seasonal staff, is also in 
place. 
 
Maintenance of Parks and Recreation Facilities 
 
Over the last 10 to 15 years there have been significant changes in how maintenance of parks and 
recreation facilities is accomplished.  Some of the more significant trends include.  
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
 
• The responsibility for maintenance and custodial services now varies considerably by 
agency.  As has been noted, many municipalities have moved parks maintenance functions 
to public works departments and recreation facilities maintenance and custodial serv ices to 
a separate facilities maintenance department or a division within public works.  
 
Specialized facility maintenance (athletic fields, aquatic centers, etc.) still often remain the 
responsibility of parks and recreation departments or even the recreation division.  
 
On the other side, functions such as right of way maintenance are now being moved from 
public works to parks operations. 
  
• The development of a comprehensive maintenance management plan for parks, open 
space, trails and recreation facilities is now considered essential.  This document must not 
only deal with an overall plan for the parks and recreation agency but also specific  plans 
for each park or facility.  This plan should include: 
o Classification of outdoor parks preserves and open space into 6 levels of 
maintenance standards (see below).  
 
o A listing of specific maintenance tasks that need to be performed, their frequency 
and the quality level that is expected.   
 
o A schedule of daily or weekly documented inspections of parks, facilities, and 
equipment.  
 
o A determination of manpower, equipment and operating supplies that are required 
to complete the tasks. 
 
o Tracking of maintenance tasks, overall performance, and costs by location.   
 
o The establishment of a preventative maintenance plan.  
  
• The maintenance division develops specific levels of service for each facility that is under 
their responsibility utilizing the NRPA’s maintenance standards (or other LOS standards 
that may have been developed) that divides outdoor park maintenance into 6 different 
levels.  These include: 
o Level 1 – High visibility areas that require the highest level of maintenance. 
 
o Level 2 – Is the normal standard and what an individual expects to see on a regular 
basis. 
 
o Level 3 & 4 – These two levels are just below the norm and include reductions in 
frequency of maintenance with a focus on safety.  These levels are often utilized 
when there are budget and manpower reductions. 
 
o Level 5 – This level is one step above allowing the land to return to its original 
state. 
 
o Level 6 – This level allows the land to return to its original natural state or open 
space that is already in its natural condition.  
 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  8685  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
Some agencies have reduced the levels to only 3 or 4 to make maintenance more 
streamlined and easier to understand. 
 
• When assigning levels of maintenance to a park, it is acceptable to have varying levels 
within different areas of the same park.  Highly developed areas often have a higher level 
assigned while less developed have a lower level.   
 
For indoor facilities there is usually a similar 3 level classification for building maintenance 
functions.  Each existing indoor facility would then be classified in the same manner as 
parks.   
 
• More and more parks maintenance functions are now being contracted.  As a result, 
agencies are developing specific guidelines to determine which maintenance functions or 
activities could possibly be considered for contract service.  A primary aspect of thi s plan is 
a cost/benefit assessment of providing a function in house vs. contracting for the service.  
General guidelines often include: 
 
o Basic maintenance functions that occur on a regular basis usually are not 
contracted if they occur in highly visible locations or for facilities where there is a 
very strong level of public use.  However, other basic functions such as trash 
removal and mowing are often contracted regardless of the location.  
 
o Specialized functions that require special training or equipment, are inherently 
dangerous, or do not occur on a regular basis could be considered for contract 
service.  This could include functions such as tree trimming, fertilization, and 
chemical applications. 
 
o Basic maintenance functions that occur in remote or low use areas could be 
considered for contract.    
 
o Very small parks (under 2 acres) that require the allocation of a high level of time 
and resources are often considered for contract. 
 
o Remote locations that take significant travel time to maintain could also be 
considered for contract. 
 
• Many parks and recreation agencies are contracting for custodial services for indoor 
facilities as well as restrooms and other amenities in parks.   
 
• Developing strong contracts that detail specific tasks to be completed, the frequency and 
expected quality of service is essential.  Contracts must have specific performance 
standards to ensure that recreation facilities are adequately cleaned.  Contract m aintenance 
also must be supervised, managed, and evaluated on a regular basis.   
 
• Parks maintenance (and even facilities maintenance) either have their own maintenance 
centers or yards or share with public works.  For larger communities which cover 
significant geographic areas, there is often the need to develop smaller satellite 
maintenance yards to reduce travel time and the trailering of equipment. 
 
• A maintenance cost assignment system is developed that tracks costs by major parks or 
recreation facilities so that the true costs of maintaining these facilities is known.  This 
system is also valuable in estimating future costs for any new or renovated p arks or 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
facilities.  Cost assignment is also done by task (mowing, sweeping, fertilization, etc.) to 
develop costs per function or for determining a cost per acre or mile.  
 
• Agencies are establishing lifecycle cost estimates (capital replacement) for major capital 
assets associated with parks and recreation facilities and equipment.  An asset inventory is 
established for all major equipment as well. 
 
• For each new proposed park or recreation facility, a detailed projection of the cost of 
maintaining the amenity on an annual basis is completed.  This usually includes not only 
additional manpower requirements but also equipment, operating supplies and nec essary 
contractual services.  An on-going system with specific procedures is often in place to 
accomplish such estimates in a consistent and organized fashion. 
 
• Maintenance supervisors and administrative staff are becoming more actively involved in 
the design review process for all new planned facilities. The review process often focuses 
on materials and surfaces/finishes being specified, maintenance equipment required to 
maintain the amenity, access for maintenance equipment, and brand of materials for 
continuity.   
 
• Many parks and recreation agencies develop an energy management plan for all buildings 
and structures, which attempts to not only control energy costs but promotes energy 
conservation and also attempts to utilize alternative forms of energy.  Agencies in the 
western area of the country are also developing water management plans to reduce water 
usage in parks and facilities.     
 
• Most agencies have a risk management plan that deals with safety, security, and an 
emergency action plan.  This responsibility is usually in parks or agency administration.  
 
• Agencies have multiple Certified Playground Safety Inspectors (CPSI) on staff.  For aquatic 
centers, in addition to the aquatic staff, at least one maintenance person is a Certified Pool 
Operator (CPO). 
 
• Maintenance tasks, schedules and costs are managed by a maintenance management 
software system.  This includes work order management and preventative maintenance 
tracking. 
 
 
Aquatic Participation Trends:  Swimming is one of the most popular sports and leisure activities, 
meaning that there is a significant market for aquatic pursuits.  Approximately 17.1% of the 
population in the Mountain region of the country participates in aquatic activities.  This is a 
significant segment of the population.   
   
Despite the recent emphasis on recreational swimming the more traditional aspects of aquatics 
(including swim teams, instruction and aqua fitness) remain an important part of most aquatic 
centers.  The life safety issues associated with teaching children how to swim is a critical concern 
in most communities and competitive swim team programs through USA Swimming, high 
schools, masters, and other community-based organizations continue to be important.  Aqua 
fitness, from aqua exercise to lap swimming, has enjoyed strong growth during the last ten years 
with the realization of the benefits of water-based exercise. 
 
A competitive pool allows for a variety of aquatic activities to take place simultaneously and can 
handle aqua exercise classes, learn to swim programs as well competitive swim training and 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  8887  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
meets (short course and possibly long course).  In communities where there are several 
competitive swim programs, utilizing a pool with 8 lanes or more is usually important.  A 
competitive pool that is designed for hosting meets will allow a community to b uild a more 
regional or even national identity as a site for competitive swimming.  However, it should be 
realized that regional and national swim meets are difficult to obtain on a regular basis, take a 
considerable amount of time, effort and money to run; can be disruptive to the regular user groups 
and can be financial losers for the facility itself.  On the other side, such events can provide a 
strong economic stimulus to the overall community. 
 
Competitive diving is an activity that is often found in connection with competitive swimming.  
Most high school and regional diving competition centers on the 1-meter board with some 3 meter 
events (non-high school).  The competitive diving market, unlike swimming, is usually very small 
(usually 10% to 20% the size of the competitive swim market) and has been decreasing steadily 
over the last ten years or more.  Thus, many states have or are considering the elimination of 
diving as a part of high school swimming.  Diving programs have been more viable in markets 
with larger populations and where there are coaches with strong diving reputations.  Moving from 
springboard diving to platform (5 meter and 10 meter, and sometimes 3 and 7.5 meters), the 
market for divers drops even more while the cost of construction with deeper pool depths and 
higher dive towers becomes significantly larger.  Platform diving is usually only a competitive 
event in regional and national diving competitions.  As a result, the need for inclusion of diving 
platforms in a competitive aquatic facility needs to be carefully studied to determine the true 
economic feasibility of such an amenity.           
 
There are a couple of other aquatic sports that are often competing for pool time at competitive 
aquatic centers nationwide.  However, their competition base and number of participants is often 
smaller and face barriers of entry fighting for pool time including a more organized competitive 
swimming community and existing agreements for pool space at facilities with pools large enough 
and deep enough to host them.  Water polo is a sport that continues to be extremely popular in 
pockets of the country and whose numbers and participation rates are in many school districts are 
higher than those of swimming in high school athletics. Water polo uses a space of 25 yards or 
meters by 45-66 feet wide (the basic size of an 8 lane, 25-yard pool).  However, a minimum depth 
of 6 foot 6 inches is required which is often difficult to find in more community -based facilities.  
Artistic swimming also utilizes aquatic facilities for their sport and they also require deeper water 
of 7-8 feet.  This also makes the use of some community pools difficult. As a result of the need for 
more deep water for aquatic sports many modern community aquatic centers are building multiple 
pools. 
 
Without doubt the hottest trend in aquatics is the leisure pool concept.  This idea of incorporating 
slides, lazy rivers (or current channels), fountains, zero depth entry and other water features into a 
pool’s design has proved to be extremely popular for the recreational user.  The age of the 
conventional pool in most recreational settings has greatly diminished.  Leisure pools appeal to 
the younger kids (who are the largest segment of the population that swims) and to families.  
These types of facilities are able to attract and draw larger crowds and people tend to come from a 
further distance and stay longer to utilize such pools.  This all translates into the potential to sell 
more admissions and increase revenues.  It is estimated conservatively that a  leisure pool can 
generate up to 30% more revenue than a comparable conventional pool and the cost of operation 
while being higher, has been offset through increased revenues.  Of note is the fact that patrons 
seem willing to pay a higher user fee with this type of pool that is in a park like setting than a 
conventional aquatics facility.   
 
Another trend that is growing more popular in the aquatic’s field is the development of a raised 
temperature therapy pool for relaxation, socialization, and rehabilitation.  This has been effective 
in bringing in swimmers who are looking for a different experience and non-swimmers who want 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
the advantages of warm water in a different setting.  The development of natural landscapes has 
enhanced this type of amenity and created a pleasant atmosphere for adult socialization.  
 
The multi-function indoor aquatic center concept of delivering aquatics services continues to grow 
in acceptance with the idea of providing for a variety of aquatics activities and programs in an 
open design setting that features a lot of natural light, interactive play features and access to an 
outdoor sun deck.  The placing of traditional instructional/competitive pools, with shallow 
depth/interactive leisure pools and therapy water, in the same facility has been well received in the 
market.  This idea has proven to be financially successful by centralizing pool operations for 
recreation service providers and through increased generation of revenues from patrons willing to 
pay for an aquatics experience that is new and exciting.  Indoor aquatic centers hav e been 
instrumental in developing a true family appeal for community-based facilities.  The keys to 
success for this type of center revolve around the concept of intergenerational use in a quality 
facility that has an exciting and vibrant feel in an outdoor like atmosphere.    
 
Also changing is the orientation of aquatic centers from stand-alone facilities that only have 
aquatic features to more of a full-service recreation center that has fitness, sports and community 
based amenities.  This change has allowed for a better rate of cost recovery and stronger rates of 
use of the aquatic portion of the facility as well as the other “dry side” amenities.  
Aquatic Facilities Market Orientation:  Based on the market information, the existing pools, and 
typical aquatic needs within a community, there are specific market areas that need to be 
addressed with any aquatic facility.  These include: 
 
1. Leisure/recreation aquatic activities - This includes a variety of activities found at leisure 
pools with zero depth entry, warm water, play apparatus, slides, seating areas and deck 
space.  These are often combined with other non-aquatic areas such as concessions and 
birthday party or other group event areas.   
 
2. Instructional programming – The primary emphasis is on teaching swimming and 
lifesaving skills to many different age groups.  These activities have traditionally taken 
place in more conventional pool configurations but should not be confined to just these 
spaces.  Reasonably warm water, shallow depth with deeper water (4 ft. or more), and 
open expanses of water are necessary for instructional activities.  Easy pool access, a 
viewing area for parents, and deck space for instructors is also crucial.   
 
3. Fitness programming – These types of activities continue to grow in popularity among a 
large segment of the population.  From aqua exercise classes, to lap swimming times, 
these programs take place in more traditional settings that have lap lanes and large open 
expanses of water available at a 3 1/2 to 5 ft. depth.   
 
4. Therapy – A growing market segment for many aquatic centers is the use of warm, shallow 
water for therapy and rehabilitation purposes.  Many of these services are offered by 
medically based organizations that partner with the center for this purpose. 
 
5. Social/relaxation - The appeal of using an aquatics area for relaxation has become a 
primary focus of many aquatic facilities.  This concept has been very effective in drawing 
non-swimmers to aquatic facilities and expanding the market beyond the traditional 
swimming boundaries.  The use of natural landscapes and creative pool designs that 
integrate the social elements with swimming activities has been most effective in reaching 
this market segment.      
 
6. Special events/rentals - There is a market for special events including kid’s birthday 
parties, corporate events, community organization functions, and general rentals to outside 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  9089  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
groups.  The development of this market will aid in the generation of additional revenues 
and these events/rentals can often be planned for after or before regular hours or during 
slow use times.  It is important that special events or rentals not adversely affect daily 
operations or overall center use. 
 
Specific market segments include: 
 
1. Families – Within this market, an orientation towards family activities is essential.  The 
ability to have family members of different ages participate in a fun and vibrant facility is 
essential.   
 
2. Pre-school children – The needs of pre-school age children need to be met with very 
shallow or zero depth water which is warm and has play apparatus designed for their use.  
Interactive programming involving parents and toddlers can also be conducted in more 
traditional aquatic areas as well.   
 
3. School age youth – A major focus of most pools is to meet the needs of this age group 
from recreational swimming to competitive aquatics.  The leisure components such as 
slides, fountains, lazy rivers and zero depth will help to bring these individuals to the pool 
on a regular basis for drop-in recreational swimming.  The lap lanes provide the 
opportunity and space necessary for instructional programs and aquatic team use.  
 
4. Teens – Another aspect of many pools is meeting the needs of the teenage population.  
Serving the needs of this age group will require leisure pool amenities that will keep their 
interest (slides) as well as the designation of certain “teen” times of use.  
 
5. Adults – This age group has a variety of needs from aquatic exercise classes to lap 
swimming, triathlon training and competitive swimming through the master’s program.  
 
6. Seniors – As the population of the United States and the service area continues to age, 
meeting the needs of an older senior population will be essential.  A more active and 
physically oriented senior is now demanding services to ensure their continued health.  
Aqua exercise, lap swimming, therapeutic conditioning and even learn to swim classes 
have proven to be popular with this age group.   
 
7. Special needs population – This is a secondary market, but with the A.D.A. requirements 
and the existence of shallow warm water and other components, the amenities are present 
to develop programs for this population segment.  Association with a hospital and other 
therapeutic and social service agencies will be necessary to reach this market.           
 
8. Special interest groups – These include swim teams (and other aquatic teams), school 
district teams, day care centers and social service organizations.  While the needs of these 
groups can be great, their demands on an aquatics center can often be incompatible with 
the overall mission of the facility.  Care must be taken to ensure that special interest groups 
are not allowed to dictate use patterns for the center.   
 
With the proper pools and strong utilization of the aquatics area, it is possible to meet most of the 
varied market orientations as outlined above.   
 
Sports Tourism Trends 
Sports tourism can be defined as attendance and participation in events and tournaments for 
youth, collegiate age and adults.  It is a significant part of local and national economies across the 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
US. In 2021, the sports tourism sector generated $39.7 billion in direct spending 19 F
20.  This amount 
accounts for money spent at the event/tournament as well as dollars spent during their stay such 
as food, lodging, shopping and entertainment.    
 
Prior to COVID-19, sports tourism had an annual average growth rate of just over 1%.  The total 
travelers in 2019 was 179 million.  With the pandemic cancelling or delaying the majority of events 
in 2020, the industry slumped. The numbers rebounded well in 2021 to 175 million, with the 
expectation that 2022 would reach or exceed the previous high.   
 
Although virtual participation is not an option for many traditional sports, technology has 
impacted the sports tourism industry.  E-Sports and gaming have exploded over the past few 
years.  It has broad appeal with a diverse audience.  While competitions are hosted on -line, venues 
have been established bringing competitors and spectators together with large crowds.  
Livestreaming of these events as well as traditional sports has become more common place with 
many large tournaments requiring access to high-speed internet.   
 
Youth Sports Trends 
Participation in youth team sports reached an all-time low during COVID-19.  Progress has been 
made, however still lags 2019, and significantly below the high in 2008.  In addition to the 
participate rate falling, the pure numbers are as well due to the declining birthrate.  Interesting 
though, the house spent playing sports has stayed steady.  
 
1. Early Specialization vs. Multi-Sport Participation: There has been ongoing debate about 
whether young athletes should specialize in one sport at an early age or participate in 
multiple sports to develop a broad range of skills. Some experts have advocated for multi -
sport participation to prevent burnout and overuse injuries.  Early specialization has also 
led to a decrease in community programs.  This leaves community programs with fewer 
resources, and a belief of the lack of quality, leading more parents/families to seek private 
club programs.  
 
2. Emphasis on Long-Term Athletic Development (LTAD): Coaches and organizations have 
been focusing on LTAD models that consider age-appropriate training, skill development, 
and physical conditioning. This approach aims to ensure that young athletes progress i n a 
healthy and sustainable manner. 
 
3. Data-Driven Training: The use of technology, such as wearable devices and data analysis 
tools, has become more common in youth sports to monitor performance, track progress, 
and identify areas for improvement. 
 
4. Mental Health and Well-Being: There's a growing awareness of the importance of mental 
health in young athletes. Organizations are focusing on creating supportive environments 
and resources to address stress, anxiety, and other mental health challenges. 
 
5. Diversification and Inclusivity: Efforts have been made to diversify youth travel sports, 
making them more inclusive for athletes from various backgrounds, genders, and 
socioeconomic statuses. 
 
6. Travel and Costs: The cost of participating in competitive travel sports has been a concern 
for many families. Some organizations have been working to provide more affordable 
options or financial assistance to ensure that talent isn't limited by financial constraints.  
 
 
20 2022 State of the Industry Report by Sports ETA.  
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  9291  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
7. Virtual Training and Coaching: The COVID-19 pandemic accelerated the adoption of virtual 
training and coaching methods. Online platforms and remote coaching became essential 
tools for maintaining training and skill development during lockdowns and restrictions.  
 
8. College Recruitment and Scholarships: The pursuit of college scholarships through 
competitive youth sports has remained a significant motivator for many athletes. 
Strategies for optimizing visibility to college scouts and coaches have evolved.  
 
Golf Trends 
COVID-19 had a positive impact on the golf industry as it was one of the few outdoor sports 
activities that met many of the recommendations for social distancing.  Most courses saw 
substantial increases in play in 2021.  Although most prognostications were for a decrease in 2022, 
data indicates that was not the case.   
 
1. Addressing Increased Public Demand:  The industry has options in meeting the demands 
for additional play.  Some possible solutions include adding additional training and 
educational classes. In addition, implementing other 9-hole courses and practice facilities 
to assist new players may also prove helpful. 
 
2. Staffing Challenges:  Recruiting and retaining maintenance positions continues to be a 
challenge not only in the golf industry but in many employment sections.  Industry experts 
note the national average wage of $10.60 per hour for golf course workers and the rigidity 
of working hours dampen recruitment.  
 
3. Changing Membership Fees:  Disposable and entertainment spending increased shortly 
after COVID-19.  With direct payments and other benefits ending as well as the potential for 
a recession, courses may have to rethink membership fees and fees for rounds.   
 
4. Quicker Events and Courses:  One of the more noticeable trends in golf is a more 
significant push to move to short events, playing only nine holes instead of a full round. 
More people are drawn to shorter courses and the opportunity to play fewer holes bec ause 
of work and family requirements. This allows golfers to get onto the system quicker, and 
shorter periods are increasing in popularity. Golfers can expect more six and 9 -hole 
approaches to complement the traditional golf courses. 
 
5. Younger and Female Golfers: Historically golf has had an older and male demographic.  
However, the latest participation data indicates nearly 1/3 of golfers are under 40.  A 
younger presence will influence other aspects of the golfing experience from the food to 
technology.  Female participation has increased, especially for beginners and juniors, to 
nearly 25% of all golfers.  This will also impact the golfing experience, equipment and 
fashion.  
 
6. Technology in Golf: Like many other sports, technology is reshaping golf and offering 
opportunities for golfers to improve their game. Analytics has become a larger part of 
sport providing better equipment and training.  All this can be done off the course , 
correcting swings and technique while providing instant feedback.   
 
7. Increasing Attention to Environmental Impact: Water resources are scarce in many parts of 
the country.  In addition, particular attention has been placed on the chemicals in  drinking 
water.  The golfing community will need to address and provide a model in water 
management, conservation, and biodiversity.  
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
  
According to the 2022 Golf business Pulse Report from the National Golf Course Operators 
Association: 
• 68% of golf facilities need to focus more on providing alternatives to the 18-hole round 
• 73% of golf courses need more forward tees 
• 74% believe golf ranges will become a significant new revenue source over the next 
several years 
• 87% agree that golf needs to do a better job of managing the customer journey of golfers 
once they complete their initial introduction to the game 
• Nearly 70% agree that golf continues to be a more viable leisure option than other 
activities that have reopened after COVID 
 
Sources: 
 
2019-2023 Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) index.php (wyo.gov)  
2019-2023 Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) SCORP_Book_2019-
2023.indd (assets-servd.host) 
2024-2028 Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) 2023 Outdoor Participation 
Trends Report. Outdoor Industry Association. 2023 Outdoor Participation Trends - Outdoor 
Industry Association 
2023 Wyoming Outdoor Recreation Report, Wyoming Office of Outdoor Recreation. WYOREC 
Report Spring 2023.pdf 
ESRI. Community Profile 2023, Retrieved from ESRI Business Analyst. Source Data  
Industry Trends for 2024, NRPA (Jan 2024). Parks and Recreation.Org. 
Topline Participation Report, 2023 Sports & Fitness Industry Association 
Visit Cheyenne, Wyoming Visit Cheyenne, Wyoming 
Visit Laramie, The Cowboy Character Challenge and Why It Matters | Visit Laramie 
#CowboyCharacterChallenge 
Webster, G. Raymond and McNamee, Gregory Lewis (2024, January 12). Wyoming. Encyclopedia 
Britannica. https://www.britannica.com/place/Wyoming-state 
Appendix A.4  |  RECREATION TRENDS REPORT
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  9493  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
 
1 
 Memo: Previous Plans Review 
 
To: City of Cheyenne: Jeanie Anderson-
Shrednik 
From: Design Workshop: Anna Laybourn, 
Ashley Hejtmanek, Jennifer Pintar 
Date: August 13, 2024 
Project Name:  Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master 
Plan 
Project #: 7172 
Subject: Previous Plans Review 
Copy To: File 
 
 
 
MEMORANDUM PURPOSE 
 
The Previous Plans Review assesses relevant plans completed in and around the City of Cheyenne. 
Below is a summary identifying plans, policies, visions, or other information that should be 
acknowledged and/or carried forward in the 2024 Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan. By 
reviewing and referencing these plans, this planning process can develop recommendations that 
align with and advance current efforts, potentially resulting in cross-organizational actions that 
utilize combined resources. 
 
The following reports and documents have been reviewed:  
 
1. Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan (2006) 
2. Cheyenne Tourism Master Plan (2021) 
3. PlanCheyenne 
a. Cheyenne Area Master Plan – Community Plan (2006, 2014) 
b. Cheyenne Area Master Plan – Transportation Plan (2006, 2014) 
i. Interim Cheyenne Area Master Plan – Transportation Plan (2019) 
ii. Connect 2045 Long-Range Transportation Plan (2020) 
4. Cheyenne Unified Development Code (Amended 2023) 
5. Cheyenne Greenway Plan (1992); Greater Cheyenne Greenway Audit Report (2019) 
6. Market and Feasibility Study: Proposed Sports Complex (2023) 
7. West Downtown Urban Renewal Plan (2023) 
8. West Edge Visionary Blueprint (2014) 
 
Other Related Plans: 
1. Dry Creek Drainage Master Plan Update (2023) 
2. Cheyenne Metropolitan Area Pedestrian Plan (2010) 
3. The Belvoir Ranch and Big Hole Master Plan (2008) 
4. Planning and Development Department Annual Reports 
 
Landscape Architecture 
Planning 
Urban Design 
Strategic Services 
Environmental Graphic Design 
 
22860 Two Rivers Road #1 
Basalt, Colorado 81621 
970.925.8354 
designworkshop.com 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
 
2 
1. PlanCheyenne: Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan (2006) 
Plan/Document Name: Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Department Issuing: City of Cheyenne Parks & Recreation 
Publication Year: 2006 
Summary: The last Parks and Recreation (P&R) master plan completed for the City 
was done in 2006, as part of the PlanCheyenne process that included a 
Community Plan and Transportation Master Plan. Prior to the 2006 
plan, the 1992 City of Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Facilities Master 
Plan provided a comprehensive plan for redevelopment and expansion 
of the park system. 
 
The P&R plan was developed to address projected city growth with a 
focus on inventorying parklands; applying classifications and level-of-
service standards to the system; document future needs for the Parks 
and Recreation Department and its divisions; identify park and facility 
needs and specific projects; document developmental regulations, 
financial resources, and potential funding and acquisition strategies; 
and identify paths to implementation.  
 
The plan outlined six (6) types of organizational resources: parkland, 
visual green spaces, open space, cemeteries, golf courses and 
recreational facilities, further sub-defined as follows: 
 
Parkland 
• Neighborhood Park 
• Pocket Park 
• Community Park 
• Regional Park 
• Sports Complex 
• Special Purpose Park 
Visual Green Spaces 
Open Space 
• Natural Areas 
• Regional Open Space 
• Special Resource Area 
Cemeteries 
Golf Courses 
Recreation Facilities 
 
 
Recommendations 
that impact this plan: 
 
Creating a Legacy of Parks and Open Space 
- Increase service and access for Neighborhood and Community 
Parks 
- Extend and enhance the greenway 
- Conserve lands of community-wide significance  
- Develop an open lands system 
- Expand proposed and current parks and recreation facilities 
- Maintain proposed and current parks and recreation facilities 
- Develop adequate land acquisition tools and funding sources to 
realize the master plan vision 
Appendix A.5  |  PREVIOUS PLANS REVIEW
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  9695  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
 
3 
2. PlanCheyenne (2006, 2014, 2019) 
Plan/Document Name: PlanCheyenne 
Department Issuing: Cheyenne MPO, City of Cheyenne, Laramie County 
Publication Year: 2006, 2014, 2019 
Summary: PlanCheyenne was an integrated community master plan that 
combined both the city and county to define the area’s future. The 
planning process contained three major components: The Community 
Plan, the Parks and Recreation Master Plan, and the Transportation 
Plan. The planning area includes the MPO boundary. 
 
The Community Plan outlined seven foundations: 
- Growing as a community of choice 
- Creating livable ‘Hometown’ neighborhoods 
- Fostering vital employment and activity centers 
- Developing a connected and diverse transportation system 
- Celebrating character and varied heritages 
- Creating a legacy of parks, open spaces and trails 
- Development in a fiscally responsible way 
 
The Transportation Master Plan highlighted strategies for bicycling and 
pedestrian movement to include completion missing segments, 
addressing on-going maintenance for facilities, and adopting standards 
for new development. 
 
The 2014 plan represents a major update and reflection on the 2006 
plans, focused on the Community Plan and Transportation Plan. A 
greater focus is defined as serving families and a diversity of people 
and providing opportunities to attract younger people to the city. The 
2014 update updates the future land uses and transportation networks. 
 
In 2019, an interim amendment to the Transportation Plan was 
prepared according to a 5-year planning window to qualify for Federal 
and State implementation dollars. The 2020, “Connection 2045 Long-
Range Transportation Plan” followed to provide a 25-year outlook 
defining the region’s strategy for a future-looking regional 
transportation system. 
 
Plan Vision The community-defined Vision2020 states: 
The Greater Cheyenne Area has a proud past and a promising future. 
The future of the Cheyenne Area builds on the historic strengths of the 
West, and looks to the possibilities that new jobs and new people 
bring. It is poised to become the northern anchor for the booming 
Front Range economy, and a complete community that attracts people 
because of its quality of life. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
 
4 
3. Cheyenne Tourism Master Plan (2021) 
Plan/Document Name: Cheyenne Tourism Master Plan 
Department Issuing: Visit Cheyenne 
Publication Year: 2021 
Summary: The Cheyenne Tourism Master Plan works to manage and understand 
future tourism to the City. The plan is a 10-year vision for the travel 
industry and is reviewed and updated annually. The plan considers the 
following: 
 
Visitor Experiences 
- Events strategies, including promoting more winter events 
- Improved gateways into the City and downtown 
- Making railroad attractions and heritage part of the Cheyenne 
brand 
- Supporting Cheyenne Frontier Days and it’s future evolution 
- Encourage sports facility development to host residents and 
visiting tournaments 
- Support development of additional attractions or amenities as 
they become feasible (Ex: Archer Complex additions, Cheyenne 
Children’s Museum, Recreation Center, former Airport 
Terminal, High Plains Arboretum, etc. 
Downtown Experience and Development 
Outdoor Recreation 
- Develop the Cheyenne Greenway with connections into 
downtown and with activation along the corridor 
- Develop and promote existing outdoor recreation options such 
as Vedauwoo Recreation Area, Curt Gowdy State Park, Pine 
Bluffs Recreation Areas, etc. 
- Foster development of outdoor recreation industry  
- Develop and implement a Big Hole / Belvoir Ranch multi-year 
action plan to open the lands to recreation 
- Make modifications or significant enhancements to Crow Creek 
to create a waterway attraction and Greenway extension from 
FEW to downtown. 
Community Branding 
Travel Industry Framework 
 
 
Plan Vision Cheyenne is an authentic and dynamic destination, proud of its 
pioneering accomplishments and featuring year-round attractions and 
activities benefiting both visitors and residents. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A.5  |  PREVIOUS PLANS REVIEW
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  9897  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
 
5 
4. Cheyenne Unified Development Code (Amended 2023) 
Plan/Document Name: Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC) 
Department Issuing: City of Cheyenne 
Publication Year: Adopted 2012, Amended 2023 
                    Summary: As related to this planning effort, the UDC provides intent and 
requirements for Open Spaces Systems throughout the City. The 
requirement for Open Space applies to plat applications, requiring they 
designate areas of lots or parcels of land as non-buildable to serve 
public or civic purposes. 
 
Exceptions include: 
1. Existing Public Open Space Credit. Any proposed development lot 
within a ¼ mile buffer of any existing public open space used for parks 
and recreation purposes shall not be subject to the Open Space 
requirement provided the City determines that it is of sufficient 
capacity and design standard to serve the proposed development. 
 
2. Existing Shared Common Open Space Credit. Any proposed 
development lot within defined service areas for any existing common 
open space may receive a credit for this open space provided the City 
determines that it is of sufficient capacity and design standard to serve 
the proposed development.  
 
3. Residential Infill Development. Residential infill parcels of less than 
10 acres which are not within a ¼ mile buffer of existing public open 
space used for parks and recreation purposes shall not be subject to 
the Open Space Requirement where the City finds opportunities to 
incorporate open space is limited or alternative sites or standards are 
proposed and acceptable. 
 
4. Cash-in-Lieu of Open Space. At the discretion of the City, an 
applicant may satisfy the Open Space requirement by making a cash 
payment to the City. 
 
The required space to be provided varies from 750 SF per dwelling 
unity to 8% of the gross area of the development parcel. 
 
All Open Space shall require documentation that demonstrates the 
ongoing maintenance and management of the space, including the 
administrative and financial means to provide maintenance and 
management. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
 
6 
5. Cheyenne Greenway Plan (1992); Greater Cheyenne Greenway Audit Report (2019) 
Plan/Document Name: Cheyenne Greenway Plan 
Department Issuing: City of Cheyenne 
Publication Year: 1992, 2019 
Summary: A vision for Crow Creek expanded into a community-wide greenway 
system, aligning citizen groups to create a recreational transportation 
system throughout the city. The plan knitted together four off-street 
corridors – Dry Creek, Crow Creek, Allison Draw and an abandoned 
railroad bed south of Nationway. In 1991, county voters passed a 1% 
tax to fund local projects, which included $2,800,000 for construction of 
the greenway path. The first Greenway plan took a comprehensive look 
at an entire path system and implementations strategies. 
 
A 2019 Audit Report serves as documentation of current conditions of 
the greenway with proposed improvements. Findings from this audit 
suggest:  
- The greenway is under-signed in regard to establishing 
continuity, orientation, and safety 
- Portions of the system require repair to concrete, 
barriers/railings etc.  
- Drainage issues exist  
- Unmarked at-grade crossings exist and create safety concerns 
- Additional access points should be considered 
- Safety, lighting and barrier railings can be improved upon 
- Better design practices should be considered/ incorporated 
(trees, landscaping, benches, rest stations, viewing areas, 
effective buffers) 
 
 
6. Market and Feasibility Study: Proposed Sports Complex (2023) 
Plan/Document Name: Market and Feasibility Study: Proposed Sports Complex 
Department Issuing: Cheyenne LEADS 
Publication Year:  
Summary: Cheyenne LEADS engaged HVS Convention, Sports & Entertainment 
Facilities Consulting (“HVS”) to conduct a Market and Feasibility Study 
for a potential sports complex in Cheyenne. The Proposed Sports 
Complex could enhance the demand potential for sports events and 
tournaments, while retaining some business lost from the Cheyenne 
area due to a lack of existing facilities. 
 
The study indoor practice space is a need (basketball, volleyball, and 
maybe futsal); soccer is popular but doesn’t have space to grow an 
indoor season; track and field teams practice in school hallways during 
winter months; the Laramie School District has restricted the ability for 
use of school facilities; seniors lack a good place to walk and exercise; 
adult leagues lack space or time at existing facilities; and programs are 
unable to expand due to lack of space. 
 
Appendix A.5  |  PREVIOUS PLANS REVIEW
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  10099  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
 
7 
The plan recommends an indoor sports facility that includes hardwood 
court space to support basketball, futsal, and other mat sports, and can 
offer up to twelve volleyball courts. These courts would support weekly 
programming and team practices and occasional tournament activity. 
Also recommended is an adjacent turf field which would support 
soccer and baseball, among other sports. 
 
The sports complex should include the following spaces: 
• Six equally sized courts with one regulation-size basketball 
court or two regulation-size volleyball courts each, 
• Indoor turf that could accommodate two indoor soccer fields 
(100 x 210) or an indoor baseball infield diamond, and 
• A mezzanine level overlooking the hard courts to be used for 
observation and as an indoor walking or jogging track. 
• Concessions, lobby, team rooms that can be used as locker 
rooms, and meeting rooms. 
 
 
7. West Downtown Urban Renewal Plan (2023) 
Plan/Document Name: West Downtown Urban Renewal Plan 
Department Issuing: City of Cheyenne (Planning and Development) 
Publication Year: 2023 
Summary: The West Downtown Urban Renewal Plan identifies areas of blight with 
proposed urban renewal activities. Redevelopment could include a mix 
of future uses, including a Children’s Museum and Downtown Hotel. A 
large amount of the land is currently surface parking, but also 
encompasses deteriorated structures, inadequate street layout, 
unsanitary/ unsafe conditions and neglect. 
 
The activities allowed are:  
 
• Improve streets; including curb, gutter, and sidewalks;  
• relocate utilities as necessary;  
• restore and improve historic structures that have fallen into 
disrepair;  
• remediate environmental contamination;  
• facilitate economic development and site beautification.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
 
8 
 
8. Cheyenne’s Historic West Edge Reimagined (2014) 
Plan/Document Name: Cheyenne’s Historic West Edge Reimagined: City of Cheyenne West 
Edge Visionary Blueprint 
Department Issuing: City of Cheyenne Brownfield Coalition 
Publication Year: 2014 
Summary: This plan provided a focus on achieving the vitality and vibrancy of an 
attractive, inviting and livable place in the Lower Capital Drainage 
Basin and the West Edge of Downtown Cheyenne. 
 
The West Edge area is located between the Downtown core, railroad 
tracks and existing residential neighborhoods. The vision for the 
district incorporates surface stormwater drainage features along with 
improved streetscape and Downtown park spaces. Outcomes of the 
plan anticipate new public amenities and parks; heightened public 
safety; enhanced community identity; stormwater control; improved 
environmental quality; improved tax base/new business on vacant 
land; increased housing and workplace options; enhanced 
pedestrian/bicycle connectivity; increased collaboration amongst 
partner agencies; and enhanced opportunities for recreation for all. 
 
 
Plan Guiding 
Principles: 
1. Stormwater should be handled through a connected series of 
features.  
2. Ultimately the goal is to intercept much of the flow of the stormwater 
and take it to Crow Creek, not Downtown.  
3. Stormwater quantity and quality should be addressed through 
combined effect of all of the system features.  
4. System features should accomplish multiple goals whenever 
possible - public recreation / open space, stormwater handling, 
brownfield mitigation, aesthetic improvement. 
5. Formal and natural features may be mixed to create a complete 
system. 
6. Certain existing public properties should be leveraged to be part of 
the system. 
7. Any new amenity should be well-connected to other amenities in 
and around the area. 
 
Appendix A.5  |  PREVIOUS PLANS REVIEW
    ii
APPENDIX B  
ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY
 » Appendix B.1 Online Survey Summary
 » Online Survey Summary
 » Open-ended Question Responses
 » Online Survey Raw Results
 » Appendix B.2 Focus Group Summary
 » Steering Committee Workshop Summary
 » Focus Group Activity Results
 » Appendix B.3 Community Workshop
 » Community Workshop Comment Cards
 » Community Workshop Mapping Exercise
 » Community Workshop Super Day Board
6
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  21  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY SUMMARY
Page 1 
 MEMORANDUM 
 
To: City of Cheyenne 
From: Design Workshop 
Date: June 25, 2024  
Project Name: Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan  
 
Project #: 7172  
Subject: Online Survey Summary  
 
 
 
Introduction 
The Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan survey was conducted from April 8th, 2024, to May 14th, 2024. 
The survey included 18 questions regarding Cheyenne’s park system and demographic questions to give some 
context to the responses. Feedback will help guide the City of Cheyenne in planning for park, trail, open space, and 
recreational amenities over the course of the next ten years.  The survey received 710 total responses. Responses to 
the verbatim open-ended responses to the Survey Questions and the Qualtrics raw survey results are listed at the 
end of the report.  
 
Question 1: How often do you visit Cheyenne’s parks or recreation facilities?  
 
Key Takeaways 
Participants most commonly use Cheyenne’s parks or recreation facilities several days a week. Approximately 68% 
of respondents visit Cheyenne’s parks and recreation facilities at least once a week. 16% of respondents visit 
Cheyenne’s parks and recreation facilities once a month or less. This question received 658 total responses.  
 
 
Question 2: Which of Cheyenne’s parks, trails, and recreation facilities do you frequent most often?  
16%
40%
12%
16%
5%
10%
1%
Daily
Several days a week
Once a week
Several times a month
Once a month
A few times a year
Never
Landscape Architecture 
Planning 
Urban Design 
Strategic Services 
Environmental Graphic Design 
 
22860 Two Rivers Road , Suite 102 
Basalt, Colorado 81621  
970.925.8354 
designworkshop.com 
Page 2 
 
Key Takeaways 
Lions Park is the most frequented park among respondents. Holliday Park is the second most frequented park 
among respondents. This question received 1,878 total responses from 494 respondents.  
 
Question 3: If applicable, please specify any other of Cheyenne's parks, trails, and recreation facilities that 
you frequent often that are not listed above.  
 
This question received 209 written responses. See the Open-ended Question Responses for the full list of open-
ended responses. 
 
 
Question 4: Why do you choose to visit Cheyenne’s parks and recreation facilities?  
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
The most common reasons that respondents frequent Cheyenne’s parks and facilities are for walking, exercise, 
sports, and their kids. This question received 456  total responses. See the Open-ended Question Responses for the 
full list of open-ended responses. 
 
Question 5: What are the most common ways you or someone in your household uses Cheyenne’s parks 
and recreation system? 
74%
43%
32%
28%
25%
Lions Park
Holliday Park
Cahill Park
Ice & Events C enter
North Cheyenne Community Park

Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  43  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Page 3 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
62% of respondents most commonly use Cheyenne’s parks and recreation system for walking, hiking, and running. 5 
in 10 respondents most commonly use Cheyenne’s parks and recreation system for spending time with family and 
friends and enjoying nature. Very few respondents do not use Cheyenne’s parks and recreation system. This 
question received 3,123 responses from 511 respondents  and 16 written responses in the “Other” Categor y listed in 
the Open-ended Question Responses. 
 
Question 6: What other local facilities do you use for recreation that are not managed by the City?  
 
This question received 218 written responses. See the Open-ended Question Responses for the full list of open-
ended responses. 
 
Question 7: What is the maximum distance you are willing to walk or bike to a park, playground, 
greenway/trail, or recreation facility?  
 
 
62%
57%
53%
39%
37%
34%
34%
31%
30%
29%
26%
26%
25%
23%
22%
17%
17%
15%
12%
9%
6%
5%
2%
1%
Walking, hiking, running on trails/greenway
Spending time with family/friends
Enjoying nature, wildlife, etc.
Outdoor play/playgrounds
Fitness
Dog walking
Biking on trails/greenway
Ice and Events Center activities
Field sports
Leagues, clubs, or other organized group activities
Court sports
Botanic Garden programming
Swimming/aquatics
Picnics, BBQs, and gatherings
Organized activities and special events
Cultural arts
City indoor recreation programs participation
Golf
Disc golf/frisbee
Natural water based recreation
Education
Skateboarding, roller skating, or scootering
Horseshoes
I/We don't use Cheyenne's park and system
13%
22%
9%
23%
25%
8%
Quarter mile (approx. 5-minute walk)
Half mile (approx. 10-minute walk)
Three-fourth mile (approx. 15- minute walk)
One mile (approx. 20- minute walk)
2 miles or more
None / Not applicable
Page 4 
Key Takeaways 
25% of respondents are willing to walk or bike two miles or more to a recreation facility. 48% of respondents are 
willing to walk or bike one mile or more to a recreation facility. 35% of respondents are willing to walk half a mile or 
less to a recreation facility. 7.5% of respondents indicated none/not applicable. This question received 489 
responses. 
 
Question 8: What is the maximum distance you are willing to drive to a large regional park, community, 
event, community center, or competitive recreation sports field?  
 
Key Takeaways 
20% of respondents are willing to drive one hour or more to a recreation facility.  78% of respondents are not willing 
to drive more than 30 minutes to a recreation facility. 48% of respondents are willing to drive 15 minutes or less to a 
recreation facility. This question received 495 responses.  
 
 
Question 9: What reasons have prevented you or other household members from using Cheyenne’s 
recreation facilities, programs, parks, trails, or natural areas?  
 
 
Key Takeaways 
60% respondents identified seasonal weather constraints as the most common reason preventing the use of parks 
and recreation facilities. 22% of respondents selected that facilities are often booked or overcrowded. Nothing 
prevents use for 18% of respondents. This question received 477 responses and 69 written responses in the “Other” 
Category, listed in the Open- ended Question Responses. 
 
5%
43%
31%
19%
2%
5-minute drive
15-minute drive
30-minute drive
One hour drive or more
None / Not applicable
60%
22%
19%
18%
17%
15%
11%
7%
6%
6%
6%
6%
4%
4%
2%
Seasonal weather constraints for outdoor activity…
Facilities are often booked or overcrowded
Don’t offer the programs or amenities I/we want
Nothing prevents my/our usage
Security concerns / do not feel safe
Insufficient maintenance or cleanliness
Unfamiliar with parks, trails, recreation facilities
Lack of pet-friendly areas
The hours are not convenient for me
Cost of participation
Difficult to access or lacks parking
Other facilities work better for me/my family
Too far to travel/lack transportation
Do not feel welcome / lack of belonging
Lack of accessible spaces and/or amenities for persons…
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  65  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Page 5 
Question 10: Please rate the existing condition of the following types of properties maintained by the city. 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
61% of respondents indicated overall park daily maintenance is good or excellent.  42% of respondents indicated that 
community centers and indoor recreation have a poor or average condition.  25% of respondents selected that 
community parks have excellent existing conditions. This question received 2,515 responses from 447 respondents . 
 
Question 11: Do you have any comments regarding existing conditions? 
 
This question received 165 written responses. See the Open-ended Question Responses for the full list of open-
ended responses. 
 
Question 12. For each type of facility, please indicate if there is too much, too little, or the right amount to 
serve the community. 
 
Key Takeaways 
73% of respondents indicated that there is a need for more indoor recreation spaces.  53% of respondents indicated 
there is a need for more outdoor swimming/spray water play and restroom facilities.  At least 20% of respondents 
Page 6 
identified there being too little of each facility.  This question received 9,834 responses from 441 respondents.  This 
question received 44 written responses in the “Other” Category, listed in the Open- ended Question Responses. 
 
 
Question 13: Please indicate if the city offers too much, too little, or the right amount of the following types 
of programs. 
 
Key Takeaways 
51% of respondents believe that there is a lack of outdoor education, nature exploration programming provided by 
the city. At least 40% of respondents selected that there are too few programs for teens, people with low household 
income, and people with special needs. This question received 3,356 Responses from 418 respondents.  There were 
no written responses indicated for the “Other” Category.   
 
 
Question 14: Communities provide parks, recreational amenities, trails, and open spaces for a variety of 
reasons. Please rate how important you think each of these purposes is for Cheyenne.  
 
Key Takeaways 
Providing places and programs for people to maintain and improve their health and fitness, providing places for all to 
play, and protecting natural environments were identified as the top three most important purposes. This question 
received 5,367 responses from 421 respondents  and 52 written responses in the “Other” Category, listed in  the 
Open-ended Question Responses. 
 
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  87  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary Page 7 
Question 15: How important do you think it is for Cheyenne to invest in the following in the next ten years in 
response to community growth? 
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
74% of respondents think it is important to build significant additional indoor recreation/community center facilities 
over the next ten years. Approximately 30% of respondents would like to see greater investment in resources for 
recreation programs, events, and activities. This question received 3,632 responses from 413 respondents  and 50 
written responses in the “Other” Category, listed in the Open- ended Question Responses. 
 
Question 16. How likely would you be willing to support additional funding and spending for parks and 
recreation improvements in the future?  
 
 
Key Takeaways 
57% of respondents indicated that they would be extremely willing to support additional funding and spending for 
parks and recreation improvements in the future. Only 4.8% of respondents indicated that they would be unlikely to 
support additional funding. This question received 411 responses.  
 
Question 17: How do you find out information about the City’s recreation facilities, events, programs, parks, 
trails, or natural areas?  
 
57%
25%
13%
2%
2%
Extremely likely
Somewhat likely
Unsure at this time
Somewhat unlikely
Extremely unlikely
Page 8 
 
Key Takeaways 
59% of respondents indicated that they receive information from social media, followed by friends or word of mouth 
(58%) and 35% from the Cheyenne recreation website.  This question received 414  responses and 33 written 
responses in the “Other” Category, listed in the Open- ended Question Responses. 
 
Question 18: Do you have other comments or suggestions for Cheyenne’s parks, trails, and open spaces 
system? 
 
Respondents were asked to provide any additional comments or suggestions that they had for the future of 
Cheyenne’s Parks and Recreation System. The question received 201 responses, listed in the Open-ended Question 
Responses. The responses were organized into the following larger themes . 
 
Improved Connectivity and Safety of Greenway and Trails:  
• Better connect the Greenway through the heart of the city to make it safer and more usable.  
• Address safety concerns at crossings and intersections. 
• Ensure the Greenway connects more comprehensively throughout the city and downtown areas.  
Development of Indoor Recreational Facilities:  
• Build additional indoor recreation centers, including spaces for various sports like tennis, pickleball, 
basketball, and ice hockey. 
• Emphasize year-round accessibility to indoor facilities due to harsh weather conditions.  
• Provide affordable indoor options for swimming and other activities. 
Enhancement of Existing Parks and Facilities:  
• Add amenities such as benches, trash cans, bathrooms, and interpretation trails.  
• Maintain and improve current facilities rather than expanding new ones.  
• Address cleanliness, safety, and maintenance issues, including managing the homeless population 
in parks. 
• Enhancements to existing parks, including more shade structures, flowering trees, and improved 
accessibility. 
• Expansion and better maintenance of greenways and trails, with some advocating for new 
connections and extensions. 
• Interest in developing new parks and open spaces, particularly in underserved areas of the city.  
 
 
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  109  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Page 9 
Community Engagement and Resource Allocation:  
• Involve the community in planning and reserving park spaces.  
• Improve marketing and communication of available programs.  
• Focus on investing in existing infrastructure and efficiently utilizing current resources before 
expanding further. 
Youth and Sports Facilities: 
• More activities and facilities for youth, including sports like volleyball, hockey, lacrosse, and 
baseball. 
• Requests for year-round indoor sports facilities, ice rinks, and recreational centers similar to those 
in other Wyoming cities like Casper and Gillette.  
• Concerns about the recent purchase of the Beast facility affecting youth sports programs.  
Pet-Friendly Amenities: 
• Increased desire for more dog- friendly parks and spaces where pets can be off -leash. 
• Requests for additional pet amenities like dog poop bags and trash cans in parks.  
Winter and Year-Round Recreation: 
• More ice-related facilities and activities for winter, including additional ice rinks and hills for 
sledding. 
• Calls for year-round access to ice skating and hockey facilities  
Conclusion 
The Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan survey provides comprehensive insights into the community's 
usage and perceptions of the city’s parks, trails, and recreational facilities. The data gathered from 710 respondents 
highlights the most frequented parks, common usage patterns, and primary motivations for visiting these amenities. It 
also reveals key areas for improvement, such as the need for more indoor recreation spaces, enhanced outdoor 
programming, and better maintenance of existing facilities. With a significant portion of the community expressing a 
willingness to support additional funding, these findings will be helpful in guiding Cheyenne's strategic planning and 
investment decisions over the next decade, ensuring that the city's recreational infrastructure continues to meet the 
evolving needs of its residents. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 
Demographic Questions 
 
Question 1: Where do you live?   
 
 
73% of respondents identified that they live in the City of Cheyenne.  24% of respondents identified that they live 
somewhere else in Laramie County  and 3% preferred not to answer . This question received 434 responses.  
 
 
Question 2: How long have you lived in the City of Cheyenne or Laramie County? 
City of Cheyenne 
 
 
Laramie County 
 
 
47% of respondents have lived in the City of Cheyenne for more than 20 years. The County shares a similar statistic 
with 54% of respondents living there for more than 20 years. There is a distributed range of respondents living in the 
city from 1 to 19 years with no majority. Similar is the case for the county as well. Both questions received 312 and 
100 responses respectively. 
 
 
 
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  1211  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Page 11 
Question 3: What is your zip code? 
 
City of Cheyenne 
 
Laramie County 
 
 
Respondents are from primarily zip codes 82001 (50%) and 82009 (41%) in the City of Cheyenne. While for Laramie 
County, respondents are majorly from 82009 (75%) and few from 82007 (16%). Both the questions received 305 
responses and 96 responses respectively. 
 
 
Question 4: Do any of the following live in your household? 
 
City of Cheyenne 
 
Laramie County 
 
Page 12 
The household makeup of the respondents for both the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County falls in the similar 
range across all the categories, with the county having slightly higher percentages across all age groups  than the 
city. In both places, the age group 20 to 54 has the highest percentage with the city having 64% of respondents and 
the county having 69% of respondents. Both the questions had 303 and 97 responses respectively.  
 
Question 5: Which best describes your age?  
 
City of Cheyenne 
 
Laramie County 
 
The highest percentage of respondents for both the city as well as the county fall under the age group 35- 44 with the 
city having 38% of respondents and the county having 39% of respondents in that category. The least participation in 
the survey is seen from the age groups of under 18, 18- 24 and 75 plus. This is true for both the city as well as the 
county. Both the questions received 306 and 96 responses respectively.  
 
 
Question 6: Which race, or ethnicity do you most identify with? 
City of Cheyenne 
 
 
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  1413  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Page 13 
Laramie County 
 
Respondents from the city as well as the county are majorly white/Caucasian with the city having 75% of 
respondents and county having 80% respondents. The city (7%) has a higher percentage of respondents who are 
Hispanic/Latino/Spanish than the county (3%). Both the questions have 304 and 96 responses respectively. 
 
 
Question 7: Please describe your annual household income?  
City of Cheyenne 
 
Laramie County 
 
Respondents from the city have the highest majority in the category of having annual income more than $125,000. 
Similar is the case for the county, but with a clearer majority of 50% of respondents falling under that category. Both 
the questions received 304 and 96 responses respectively. 
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
VERBATIM RESPONSES TO OPEN-ENDED SURVEY
The following are the verbatim responses to the open-ended questions on the Cheyenne Online Community Survey. 
Because these responses were written by survey participants, they are presented here in verbatim form, including any 
typographical, grammatical, or other mistakes.
QUESTION 3: IF APPLICABLE, PLEASE SPECIFY ANY OTHER OF CHEYENNE’S PARKS, 
TRAILS, AND RECREATION FACILITIES THAT YOU FREQUENT OFTEN THAT ARE NOT 
LISTED ABOVE.
This question received 209 open-ended responses.
Aquatic Center
Need more greenway on east side
Golf coarse
None
Municipal golf courses 
The greenbelt
Aquatic Center
Greenway
Beast 
Greenway
Greenway
Pointe Park
Greenway
BEAST facility 
Brimmer
Greenway dry creek, crow crrek and sun valley 
Indoor tennis courts at the Frontier Days exhibition hall.
The Greenway for biking, public golf courses
Prairieview golf course
Airport Golf course 
The Beast
Green way
Tennis center 
BEAST 
Beast 
I use the greenway daily
Greenway
Cheyenne Greenway
Beast
Aquatic center
The Beast
Beast
Airport golf course
greenway
Free range pasture on Pershing an Whitney..,, dog park
Beast
The youth center that has the purple and green play ground 
near pioneer park achool
North Park Soccer Fields
Greenway trail system
Greenway
South High, East High, Central High
N/A
Greenway
The Greenway, The New Trail/Park off of East Pershing 
Bill Dubois Park
The BEAST
Greenway
Frontier Park Tennis 
The BEAST
Greenway
All parks 
Aquatics Center
The Depot Plaza Splash Pad
greenway, tennis courts, 
Base lakes
Bike the greenway
Golf courses and greenway
Cheyenne Greenway
Beast
Ice and event center 
Cheyenne Botanic Gardens/Paul Smith Children's Village
Greenway
Greenway 
Greenway, all over town
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  1615  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Golf Courses
Greenway
The Greenway whenever possible
Prarie view golf course
The Beast, the Greenway
Green Way
Greenway
Greenway
Greenway
the open space behind the new conservation district building 
off of campstool rd
Beast
Greenways
We use the Greenway Trail between the Ames underpass 
and Morrie Avenue quite often.
The beast gym
BEAST
Beast
Beast Foundation
Greenway
BEAST
Na
Beast facility 
BEAST Indoor Facility
Beast foundation 
BEAST and Aquatic Center
Beast facility
The Beast
Greenway for walking and bike rides
Botanical Gardens & Airport Golf
Greenway
Greenway! 
High Plains Arboretum
Crow Creek Greenway 
Greenway trails
Biking trials and soccer fields
the State Land off I-25 at Iron Mountain and Horse Creek 
Airport Golf Course 
Airport Golf Course, Prairie View 
Greenway Trails
Prairie View Golf Course
Gymnastics
Dry Creek, Converse, and Storey greenways
Greenway in Orchard Valley
Arboretum, Greenway
Civic Commons
Greenwaywalk
The green way
We plan to sign kids up for gymnastics when there is a new 
facility.
Airport Golf Course
Cheyenne Aquatic Center
Grass block at O’Neil and 20th
Aquatic center
Dry creek greenway 
Greenway trail system
Pool
Aquatic center
We love walking on the greenway
Whitney Ranch Park 
Crow Creek off of Morrie Ave.
Beast Facility
The Greenbelt
My family uses the greenbelt since we do not have a park in 
our neighborhood 
City golf courses
Cheyenne aquatic center 
The greenway and Botanic Gardens!
Airport Golf 
Greenway, Botanic Gardens, on street biking
Kiwanis Park as I am a Kiwanian
Civic Center, Botanic Gardens
Greenway Cooridor
The Greenway
The Beast
Greenway
Greenway system trails
East Park, Greenway
Greenway bike/hike trail
Greenway 
BEAST
Greenway
Aquatic Center
Botanic Gardens
golf courses 
n/a
CFD grounds for walking
Beast
Municipal pool
Bike trails, walking trails
I use much of the greenway around Cheyenne in addition to 
greenway/trails in the parks.
Greenway, walking dog and biking
The Greenway Path
Cheyenne aquatic center 
Clear creek park, civic park,depot plaza
Cheyenne Gymnastics
Greenway
Lions park
Greenway
Greenway 
Lakeview cemetery 
Botanic Gardens (not sure if same system but know it’s city)
The beast facility 
Clear Creek Park
Cheyenne Botanic Gardens
Greenway
Indoor tennis facility at CFD building
Restrooms
Kiwanis Park
Greenway
Cheyenne aquatics 
Golf Course 
Ice and Events
The entire greenway and arboretum to the west of town
Basically all the greenway trails
Golf courses
Botanic Garden
Ice and events center
Cheyenne Greenway
Beast foundation 
Botanic Gardens and Children's Village
Open space around Priaire Wind Elementary 
Greenway
Greenway
Greater Cheyenne Greenway
Municipal pool
Greenway, aquatic center
Children's Village, Botanic Gardens, and County Library
I use the greenway a lot.  Also the dirt bike trails out at North 
Cheyenne Community Park.
Greenway
Greenway
The Beast
Airport Parkway 
Greenway
High plains arboretum 
High Plains Arboretum 
High Plains Arboretum
I visit all every week
Trail along airport parkway that I taken care of by the airport
Cahill park
Greenway
Greenway that runs along Dell Range
Cheyenne Aquatic Center, BEAST
Greenway
Greenway
The Greenway
Greenway on the east side of town
Random Open Space by my house
test
QUESTION 4: WHY DO YOU CHOOSE TO VISIT CHEYENNE’S PARKS AND RECREATION 
FACILITIES?
This question received 456 open-ended responses.
Play and coach hockey
Adult Athletics
To be active! 
bike commute through them
Soccer, walk dogs, scouts
walking my dog
Play
None
Open space to walk/train dogs off leash
Events
Soccer games/play golf 
Small kids and sports
Beautiful trails for outdoor walking, family friendly activities, 
fun area downtown for events 
Recreation & restoration, biking, running, frisbee golf, 
walking, dogs
I enjoy waking the parks and the beast is the only faculty 
Cheyenne has for sports for the youth 
Get outside 
I like to be able to walk my dogs, play disc golf, run, walk, ride 
my bike and picnic. 
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  1817  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
The Sun Valley Open Space is a great place to give my dogs 
a walk. I also play softball each year, so my teams use the 
Brimmer Park and Converse Softball Complexes.
They are nice places to walk with the dogs. 
Children play sports at these locations, trails, walking paths
Proximity and activites
Kid areas and playgrounds. Walking paths. Swimming! Smith 
gardens. 
Capitals hockey, youth lacrosse, walking
The calm and things to do such as walking and biking.
Quiet & clean
It feels good to get out especially when weather is being nice
Nice open areas, nice walking paths, good things to do
Activities there. 
Walk or ride bike
Tennis!
Exercise and tennis
To use tennis courts, soccer fields and walking paths. 
Location and trying to get best option for courts 
access to grass for kids to play. 
Tennis and walking 
Golf! 
Tennis
Pleasant feel, convenient to work and home
Closest to my house
Have kids, playgrounds and sports are important
Cleanest, quality of playground equipment
To play pickleball and do yoga
Proximity to home
Walk dog, tennis
Walking paths, parking to visit others who visit frequently
I like to ride my bicycle out of vehicle traffic
Exercise 
youth club sports
My kids are active in sports and gives them practice 
opportunities 
Family activites, public events, youth sports
Children’s activities 
Somewhere to go with the kids
Time outdoors and exercise
Bike/walking trails, playgrounds, green areas, trees, botanic 
and children’s village
Being active, playing with kids and practicing
Spend time with my grandchildren
I have kids who like to go to the parks and play on the 
equipment. I have family members that I enjoy to watch play 
sports at all the baseball and softball fields. 
I like to stay active. I have dogs who love the parks as much 
as I do! 
Club Volleyball
Kids recreation programs and walking trails
Because my kids love sports and play them year round
Lions park because of the Botanical Gardens, Holliday 
because it's close to where I live, and Mylar to take photos
Location, activities, or event
Fun for my kids
Spaces tend to be well maintained. We live in Western Hills 
North and absolutely love Western Hills Park. It adds a huge 
benefit to our neighborhood. However,I would love to see 
this park taken car of the way it was years ago. Since COVID, 
this park hasn't been as well maintained. Cleanup and 
landscaping work is needed to maintain the beautiful bush 
and tree area that is being taken over by grass and dirt. The 
grass also needs more attention. 
convenience
location, walking dogs, soccer, tennis
Distance and convenience. 
Hockey practice, pickle ball, outdoor rec
Close to home
Rec Center Soccer, Fitness and leisure 
because they are closer to home and there is not much else 
to do with my kids besides same old stuff 
Dog
Location convenience and upkeep of parks
Location great fields tennis
children, social events, sports
Softball, play equipment 
Nice
Location or less people 
Proximity to home, able to ride bikes, open areas, disc golf, 
beaches/water sports
Like the trees and native areas.  
Tennis, soccer, and parks for kids
Sports
Recreation
Health & wellness
Playground with kid, walk dogs, community events
Accessibility 
Outdoor activity for our child
Exercise
Beautiful safe places to walk
Its at a decent centeal location
They are the nicer of the parks in town
I live close to a couple and enjoy going to the others because 
they are clean and well taken care of and have several things 
to offer my kids.
Large, parks, safe, pool, walking path. 
To play or coach Tennis
Tennis, Pickleball, walk
Great way to get outdoors
Peace, cleanliness, air, nature, 
Bicycle access
Hockey
Walking trails, play ground, open space for yard games and 
TENNIS
Tennis, running, soccer 
Daughter plays for the Eclipse Volleyball Club
They are safe and beautiful views 
Play tennis and Ride bicycles
For tennis & pickleball
Kids
tennis 
Youth Club Volleyball (Eclipse) and recreation
I visit these places to exercise, use the facilities, i.e. tennis 
courts, and to enjoy being outdoors.
Children’s sporting events 
Recreation - swimming, biking, walking, running
To get the kids out of the house where they can run and 
enjoy the outdoors, We take photos at the botanical gardens, 
and picnic in the summer.
Walks, activities with kids
park setting, tennis facilities, trails for walk/run/skate/bike/
dog walk
Exercise
Pickleball
They are close by 
Tennis, walking, children’s playgrounds
Green grass, few people
Walking paths
Play tennis and walk
Sports, walking, picnics, etc.
Tennis Courts 
safety - open air spaces - quiet
Mostly tennis, golf, and cycling
Proximity to my house, disc golf, and connection to the 
Greenway 
Spend time outside with friends 
Dirt trails, convenience, not a lot of people
Activities, outdoors, water, community, exercise 
Baseball
My kids play hockey 
Family events, ice hockey
Events
Convenient lo
For the playground and walking with my kids.
Baseball games/practice, walking/running
Convenience and comfort 
Nice trees and grass 
running and biking, the parks listed are on my route or close 
to/easy access from home
hockey, ice skating, soccer, walking, fresh air
It’s pathetic we only have 27 holes of public golf
Play with granddaughter, exercise, to be outdoors, meet 
friends
open spaces, trees, lack of cars
I love the activity 
To get outside and enjoy the activities they have
Youth sports, neighborhood park 
Kids, walking dogs
Kid activities 
Children's sports
Open outdoor space
Sports and recreation
Team sports
Rec 
Proximity, nature spaces, like the play structures
Son plays hockey so we are at the ice and events center all 
the time during season. Parks for the kids to play and walk 
the greenway
Close to house, or easy to access. 
It has a good trail for walking. And the lake is nice.
Each has unique strengths: botanic gardens, mini golf, 
frisbee golf, mountain bike trails
Aceessibility by foot, bike and car
Pickleball 
Disc golf cources
They are in our community, have restrooms accessible 
and reasonably clean, space to explore and ride bikes and 
playground equipment my children enjoy
For exercise and fresh air
For our Childrens sports and activities 
Well-kept, clean, beautiful parks that my family love to visit 
for the views, playgrounds, and soccer fields
Accessibility, cleanliness, availability of open area, the 
pre-discussed Greenway section is close to my home and 
provides a walking path I don't have to worry about vehicles 
on.
Clean areas to enjoy with family. The beast is where my 
daughters practiced volleyball with Eclipse 
Things my family is involved with
Fund raisers, 5k runs, hiking, kids sports etc
Sports
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  2019  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
To get away from the noise and obnoxious people on roads. 
To be where other people are who are out doing the same 
and feel safe and get some exercise/ fresh air. 
Club Sports
Ease of getting to them, large play grounds, 
Baseball practices games
The BEAST was our child's volleyball practice facility.  We 
have gone to open gyms there as well as it is close in 
proximity and one of the only facilities that have open gyms 
for volleyball.
Recreation 
Club volleyball 
Western Hills Park to walk/throw ball for dog.  All others for 
youth sports.  Two daughters that are very active in sports 
with Softball and Volleyball.
My child has grown up playing and loving sports at this 
facility. Through her growth, she has been able to participate 
in travel sports and now strives to go to college to continue 
her journey with sports. 
Sporting events and practices, swimming
Eclipse club volleyball practice 
Exercise, volleyball, walking
Proximity to our house, work, schools, or other activities we 
are at normally.
Walk dogs, Work parties, Friday nights on the Depot, Softball, 
golf
Birdwatching, walking 
Love to get out side-use the greenway to get to different 
parks/ice cream
fishing, walking, and family activities
Exercise, walking dogs, taking kids to play at the park
Outdoor activities, exercise, playground equipment
It's right across the street from my home
Walking 
Recreation, biking and exercise.
Exercise, dog walking
The need to be outside and/or to move/exercise
For quality and enjoyment of life
Pickleball, dog walking, softball
greenery
Passing through on the greenway
Sports for kids
Running and sports practices 
To play tennis or golf
Location/ activities I want 
Exercise, fresh air, friendly humans
We like to walk, watch grandchildren in sporting activities.
Children activities
Athletics and extracurricular 
Convenience and greenway connectivity. 
Proximity to house, children activities
My family and I enjoy them.
Been here for over 30 years, and these are the parks and rec 
centers that I know from that period of time.
Not super crowded, get outside with something to do for the 
kids, enjoy the birds
Proximity to Work
water features or kid friendly
Walk or cycle
Bring child to play on playground 
Exercise 
Love a safe place to take my kids and be outside. Would love 
more inside space for cold months too
To get outside
Because they are there to be visited and they are on the 
greenway
Walking, botanic garden, picnicing, bird watching
Birding in unmoved natural areas available to the public
Kids love the parks! The ice and event center for hockey 
during that season, wish it was all year. We also love 
mountain biking at north park, but the trails aren’t as nice as 
they used to be. We’d be willing to help with maintenance but 
I’m not sure who to talk to about volunteering.
I have kids and enjoy walking 
They provide nice places for children to play
Walking and picnics
Playgrounds, riding bikes, close to home
Variety of spaces
Fun. Play. To get out of the house.
Baseball and softball games. Close to my house and nice 
trails to walk
Playgrounds, trees, within walking distance
They are near our house and have good playgrounds for our 
children 
Nice place to walk
Health & wellness
Location is convenient,  park is beautiful 
Events center - craft shows, Lions Park - lunch at lake in 
my car, pool - would love to take classes but won’t due to 
ambient temps in pool area to cold, poor management and 
bad exercise manager. She’s mean and not to smart, with no 
availability for adults to use the lazy river when no children 
are at pool and the building needs lots of repairs and the pool 
is down more than it is useable
Location and events
Youth soccer & hockey. Men's fitness group
Things for the kids to do, safe environment 
Proximity to our home or quality of the equipment/childs 
preference to use certain features. 
I have young children and I want them to experience outdoor 
activities with good amenities.
I have small children and we spend a lot of time outdoors. 
These places provide them a designated place to explore 
and play. 
The kids enjoy these parks and they are clean and in good 
condition
Kids sports
Sports and entertainment 
Kid friendly 
To be with my family outside
Excercise
Location 
Nature
walking and sports
To walk around the lakes
Sports, Leisure
Recreation
Safest parks for kids
to be outdoors, walk dog, frisbee golf
Play grounds 
The botanical garden, playgrounds and exercise areas are 
great for our family
What is available for my family to do
We love being outdoors and socializing. These spaces are 
safe and clean.
lakes bands softball
Recreation
Play
Lions Park in particular is an important part of my family's life 
on a multiweek basis. It is absolutely wonderful to have safe, 
clean, and beautiful outdoor spaces to visit year round!
exercise, watch games
Playgrounds are nice, and nice walking paths, Saddle Ridge 
is within walking distance
They are the parks nearest to my house or along the 
greenway section I run on most often
Entertainment, biking, events
Open spaces good for kids
Events
Usually for an event, proximity to home or to go walking
Ease of access and openspace
Nature, fishing, good walking paths
They are easy to access. 
Large safe spaces for walking   Attend sporting events 
For sports, recreation and leisure.
Exercise, time outdoors, tranquility
Kids sports,  walking,  lunches
Holliday Park: I love walking around the pond and often 
stopping by the art museum. Lions Park: I like the Botanical 
Gardens and walking around the park afterwards, as well as 
the minigolf nearby.
Because I like to walk and they're close
Explore the city and exercise
Spend time outdoors and fun for kids
Recreation, exercise, nice spaces to frequent to be outside, 
good for pets
Safe, natural areas, clean
Events or to be outside
well managed, nice trees, good activities/events
For work
Kids activities and recreation 
Skating and hockey
Beautiful parks, walking, Botanic Gardens, Pickleball, soccer 
fan
Outdoors
Locations, family friendly 
Youth activities
Kid's soccer, exercise, recreation.
For taking in beautiful scenery.
Fishing, Running, Kids playing on play structures , golfing
Closest proximity to home
Ice hockey 
Grandsons baseball 
Beautiful scenery, Jaycee park is so nice and open for kids to 
play sports. Walking distance I our neighborhood.
Nature and recreation 
Pickleball and Tennis
Ice hockey, walking, soccee, bocci ball,  
Lions or Holliday are a good walk from home and back 
Romero for events and the depot for a concert or othe event
I like riding the greenway and watching softball
It’s something to do
Easily accessible and dog friendly 
Open space and walking
Pickleball and summer events, walking, rollerblading
Transportation primarily although some of my use could be 
classed as recreation.
Hockey and Lacrosse 
love being active and outside
Sporting events for child
For exercise, walk dogs, and meet with friends.
Proximity to home
Ability to walk to the park. We rarely drive to parks.
Prices and cleanliness 
They are good for my kids and feel safe.
For my kids 
Sports, leisure
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  2221  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Playground, outdoor space, birds, gatherings, winter 
playtime
My kids 
Fun and well maintained 
Nearby, feel safe there, enjoy the surroundings
Youth sports
Recreation, relax
Walk my dogs.
Kids sports teams
Youth hockey, and youth baseball
Events going on at them.
Sports
Good walking trails 
Peaceful 
Proximity to my home and quality of space
Live close by
Love them all
Grandchildren go to play.  I walk the area.
Baseball, softball and basketball, playgrounds, walking 
Sports/playgrounds 
My children are ver active in sports.
Kids sports programs
Close to home, clean, safe
Love being outdoors. 
Hockey, stick and puck, drop in hockey
Dog walking
Usually for events or to kayak at Absarraca or Sloans Lake at 
Lions Park
Hockey 
Kid ameneties. Beautiful parks. Walking
Hockey and hockey
Youth hockey
Sports events, walks, picnics 
Proximity to my house, beautiful, safe, well maintained. 
Kids love the parks 
Safe, wide open
Walking and outdoor enjoyment. 
Family time, jogging
Walk
Walking dogs, exercise
Fun and beautiful
Recreation.   Ice skating for my daughter
My kids love using the facilities, they play soccer for the local 
club, and play ice hockey for the local team too.
Play space/facilities for our young son
Have the activities my kids do the most and also near to my 
house and have good parking, easy to get to  
Soccer and basketball for my kids and we like to go to Lions 
Park on nice days 
Hockey and baseball
Kids like to play hockey and go to the parks to play T ball
Soccer Activities 
Nice, clean, feels safe,  activities and shade
Exercise 
My son plays hockey and the parks are close to our home
They are peaceful, easy to walk
Open spaces, ball diamonds, greenway runs through, ice for 
skating
To run
Recreation
Close to home
Youth sports
Exercise, bike, run, hangout with friends, etc. 
We are part of teams that use these
They are fun to run through 
close by and I love the botanic garden
Quiet, clean, kids can play, ice skating
Sports, recreation, fitness, outdoor time, birding
Hockey 
My kids play sports and these places or they are 
neighborhood parks we freo
My kids play sports including hockey, baseball, lacrosse and 
we are located by Pointe Park 
My kids play Hockey, soccer, and love to play at the parks. 
Family favorites, andnclose proximity to our home. 
Childern in youth sports
We do hockey and soccer
Hockey 
Dog walking And activities 
Hockey, soccer, play
I like parks…..but don’t you think we have enough. Maybe 
more ice please
Sports
Soccer (north park) and hockey (ice and events)
Exercise family outing Sports
Kid's 
My kids play hockey
Recreation for young children
Hockey
Recreation and exercise 
Hockey, baseball, pickleball, kids activities
Walk the dogs
Sports, walking
Kids events
QUESTION 5: WHAT ARE THE MOST COMMON WAYS YOU OR SOMEONE IN YOUR 
HOUSEHOLD USES CHEYENNE’S PARKS AND RECREATION SYSTEM?
This question received 16 open-ended responses.
None
Photography, backgrounds
Tennis 
Mountain biking
Club sports 
Club sports
Photographer, use them for work
Feed the squirrels and ducks
Wish Kiwanis ampethear had better grounds with family 
friendly open mic nights on Fridays!
School sports training 
Running 
Civic Center concerts
Depot Plaza Concerts
Birdwatching
Yoga in the park
asdfasdf
I love to get outside during the warmer months, and they're 
all very well maintained, quality places to visit.
Kids playing, walking/running on Greenway
Recreation
Family time, exercise, enjoyment 
Recreation and exercise mostly.  I also go watch the bands at 
Depot Plaza during the summer.
North park and Cahill because of the big fields of grass. 
Lions park because it’s nice and can walk for a while. And dry 
creek because it’s close
Disc golf, kids soccer, running
Proximity to house, events and soccer, pickleball
Amenities, Disc Golf, Proximity to home
Baseball
Because they are a great spot to walk around without cars 
heavily present
The Beast is the best facility in town for kids. Parks and 
greenway are close to where I live.
Family outdoor recreation time
Close to home/ play area
Walks and taking kids 
Youth baseball 
work related and recreational enjoyment. The park is always 
a great place to have lunch, walk the dogs or just walk around 
the lake. 
static viewing
Quality of the facilities 
relaxation
Sports 
Bike trails
Amenities available within the park
Work, walking dogs, and enjoying community events 
Work or location near home
Events
For the trees
Work
It is in my neighborhood
closer to where I live
Love the parks
exercise, work, play and kids' sports
Playground equipment and walking paths
Close to the house and is very pleasant
Exercise and dog walking.
Because I like to walk and some of them are close to my 
house
Like to be outside
sports or work
Nice places to walk
Best places to recreate 
Programming.
Partake in Events
Softball and walk exercise 
recreation for children and exercise
more open space with walking paths
Bike riding, playgrounds for grandchildren
Exercise
Dog friendly, relatively safe for women
I love to watch birds and to be in a greenspace.  
They are awesome
My kid loves parks
test
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  2423  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
QUESTION 6: WHAT OTHER LOCAL FACILITIES DO YOU USE FOR RECREATION THAT ARE 
NOT MANAGED BY THE CITY?
This question received 218 open-ended responses.
Beast Foundation
YMCA
None
Gold's Gym, YMCA
YMCA, Golds Gym, Cheyenne Field Archers 
Cheyenne Animal Shelter Dog Park, State lands
Archer Complex
n/a
School district courts if available
Airport Golf Club
Frontier tennis park, Little America golf
The Beast, until recently
Tennis at CFD Exhibition Bldg.
Frontier Tennis Center
North Gym, Church Buildings, Schools
Mountains
Yoga studio 
Beast
PlayCity indoor playground. Frontier Trampoline Park. 
Laramie County Library. 
Golds gym, gowdy st park, happy jack rec area
School playgrounds 
Downtown in general - love it for shopping and dining. Would 
LOVE to see some improvement in the recreation downtown. 
A pocket park would be truly amazing or finished alleyways 
for pedestrians. We have such an amazing historic area that I 
would love to see this have a bigger parks/rec emphasis.
N/A
base lakes
Gowdy park and trails. 
taco johns center, trampoline park
Dog. Golds gym. The beast
Smart sports conservation land off of house creek
Cole Pool
Aquatics center
Curt Gowdy, Vedauwoo, red mountain open space 
Frontier Park Tennis and Fitness 307
Public lands 
South High, East High, Central High, Frontier Park Tennis 
Center
N/A
Gym
Curt Gowdy, Happy Jack
CFD Tennis Courts
Frontier Park for indoor tennis
Indoor tennis at frontier park 
Frontier Park Tennis Center
Cheyenne Country Club
Frontier Park Tennis 
The BEAST (City only recently purchased)
Frontier Park Tennis Center
CrossFit Frontier other than that none.  None, there are none 
available.  
State parks
Frontier Trampoline Park, Flippers, The Frontier Mall, 
CFD tennis facility
Open spaces north of town
Frontier Tennis Park
Frontier Park Indoor Tennis
Gold's gym, LCCC
Gold gym
Roller city 
Beast
YMCA/307 Fitness
Gold’s Gym and Smart Sports
Golds gym and smart sports and dancr
Gymnastics 
Curt Gowdy State Park, Vedauwoo Climbing area & 
campground 
Schools
Beast
Frontier Tennis Center
Trampoline park 
Archer Complex open space areas, State Land off Horse 
Creek Rd/Iron Mountain Rd
Gold's Gym, Northside Gym, BEAST
YMCA, LCCC Facilities
None
Frontier Tennis Center, FE Warren fitness centers
Out buildings by private owners to practice soccer and 
softball indoors
Beast
Used to be the beast 
Northside Gym
Gym
None
Indoor gym facilities, shops, anything we can practice in 
during harsher weather
The Beast, the old gymnastics building on powderhouse
Gold's Gym
Breweries for playing card games. Country club for golf. 
Bowling alley. Aces range for the golf simulator. 
Rock wall on base
Curt Gowdy State Park, State Museum, Trampoline Park, 
Roller City
Gym
n/a
Frontier Trampoline Park; 2 Bar Bowl; Cheyenne Country 
Club
Aces Range for the golf simulators.
Gymnastics
Diamond Elite Gymnastics, Cole pool
Frontier Tennis Center
Curt Gowdy State Park
Church facilities
Cheyenne soccer club
National forest, Curt Gowdy State Park
Diamond Elite, Act Two Studios, Park within Pointe 
neighborhood
none
Fitness 307 (East)
Vedawoo and Curt Gowdy
The area north of Horse Creek road
Play city, my church’s indoor gym, school playgrounds and 
play structures,north facility indoor gym and soccer fields 
Curt Gowdy
YMCA
Curt Gowdy SP
Curt Gowdy, our gym, the YMCA because it has better 
swimming lesson options, LCCC, play city and other indoor 
play grounds when windy or cold.
Library, PlayCity, Gold’s Gym, State Museum
YMCA
LCSD#1 playgrounds
The beast
Aquatic center
High plains arboretum 
None
Archer
Children’s village, library 
Pointe Park, North Gym private shop facility
Peach Pit 
Ymca
Meadowlark playground 
None
Boxing club
Northside Facility, School gyms, Library
Ymca
Golds Gym
PlayCity
Trampoline park and golds gym 
Ace's indoor golf, atlas theater
State and federal land west of town and the state owned 
open spaces in the capitol complex
Smart Sports 
Two Bar Bowl, vedauwoo/curt gowdy, art galleries and 
museums, Depot Plaza
LCCC
Roller city, two bar bowl, flippers, Flydragon Design Art 
Studio 
Golds Gym
High Plains Arboretum, Curt Gowdy State Park, Belvoir 
Ranch/Big Hole
N/A
The Beast, state parks, schools
YMCA
Frontier Days facilities
none
n/a
Curt Gowdy State Park, Tie City cross country ski trails
YMCA
Country Club
Gold's gym, trampoline park, roller skating rink, bowling. 
Walking on Street / Sidewalk
Ymca
Downtown Plaza
None
YMCA
Bowling alley,  gym
Gym 
LCCC Pond, 
None
Privately owned pickleball courts
The Beast - which is now city  
Sidewalk maintained by airport board... and its in terrible 
condition, bags of dog feces where benches used to be and 
"closed" signs
Trampoline park
Local gyms and school playgrounds 
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  2625  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Peach pit indoor play space
None
YMCA, Cole pool, frontier trampoline park
None
Cheyenne trap club
Grassland Research Center
None
NoCo ice rink, Epic ice rink, Greeley ice rink, ice Centre at the 
Promenade
The county library
YMCA
Peoples private shops because we don’t have any indoor 
facilities for baseball or softball 
YMCA
Roller City, Frontier Trampoline
Lakes at FEWarren AFB
None
Beast, 
Gym, indoor tennis courts
Restrooms
Miniature Golf (both facilities)
Act Two Studios, Quest Tae Kwon Do
None, that I can think of.
Play City, Bowling Alley
Dirtbike track
Frontier Trampoline Park, Gold's Gym
Beast building 
The open space on holly court.  The fireld behind menards
YMCA, Gold Gym, 
Arboretum to the west of town
Bowling 
Beast
N/A
High school facilities 
Greenway 
Pershing open space 
Local gyms, and indoor barns equipped with indoor turf for 
soccer
Play City and a different Church's gym.
Gym
N/A
School playgrounds
Trampoline park, flippers, aces range 
PlayCity Indoor Playground
The Lincoln.  Curt Gowdy State Park.
CrossFit gyms, firehouses 
Golds gym
It was the Beast but the city purchased it.
Beast athletic facility, WYCO Indoor hitting cages, The 
Factory Indoor Hitting Cages, CrossFit Cheyenne for indoor 
artificial turf, private outdoor artificial turf for baseball 
practice, Future Legends(Windsor, CO)  Indoor Bubble for 
baseball practice 
CBP Natural Area
Library
YMCA
Dance/cheer, organized sports
None- we need a rock climbing gym 
Airport parkway trail
NA
dog park
Golds Gym
Archer
School Facilities, Archer Complex, Cole Pool
Curt Gowdy State Park, Happy Jack Recreation area, Pole 
Mountain Recreation Area, Snowy Range Ski Area, Medicine 
Bow-Routt National Forest, Oliver Reservoir, I utilize the state 
highways for cycling
Gold's Gym
School section north of Tractor Supply, open area around 
Laramie County Conservation District
Wyoming Hereford Ranch
Library
test
QUESTION 9: WHAT REASONS HAVE PREVENTED YOU OR OTHER HOUSEHOLD MEMBERS 
FROM USING CHEYENNE’S RECREATION FACILITIES, PROGRAMS, PARKS, TRAILS, OR 
NATURAL AREAS?
This question received 69 open-ended responses.
No good playground on my neighborhood - Eastridge
Not enough safe off-leash dog walking spaces.
Ice rink manager often riducules hockey parents and kids, 
often tells us and others to go to Colorado to play hockey.
Cost for swimming 
My child doesn't feel welcome at drop in hockey and stick 
and pick because rink manager openly is rude and mean to 
Cheyenne capital participants.
Before purchasing the Beast facility there wasn't much of an 
indoor sports facility to use.
No lights at some tennis courts
Courts need resurfaced and more lighted tennis courts
Bathroom availability
My family and I would highly prefer to use a city recreation 
center for exercising
Lack of facilities 
Ice disappears for the summer!  Use EPIC in Fort Collins and 
NOCO in Timnoth, CO.  No indoor rec center for families like 
every other city in WY has..
Need more cold weather indoor options. Covered driving 
range. Large covered indoor soccer, football, baseball facility. 
Maybe you’ve heard them, they’re called rec center
Too many big kids for my toddlers to play
Really the Beast rec center could be utilized by our volleyball 
club. As it is unknown if there will be a program without 
practice space available
Being removed from a facility that recently was purchased by 
the city 
Excessive flying insects
Homeless, trash, vandalism at various places on the 
greenway, especially near Sun Valley and the college 
underpass, people live out there, it is not safe, there are 
holes cut in the fence, no one does anything about it
We all know we're lacking a rec center for indoor sports and 
activities during the long winter months. 
Handicap access
Homeless 
Construction and closures without accommodations for 
greenway users. Also flooding in the greenway tunnels. 
I forgot about the dog park at the shelter, would be nice to 
have another option because it’s always crowded.
Water is too cold at toddler indoor pool.
Ice & Events Center during the past Cheyenne Capitals 
season had issues regarding cleanliness - restrooms, lacking 
toilet paper, food and beverage spills in the spectator seating
We live close to dry creek parkway which has a playground 
that is outdated and not included on city maps. It’s made with 
old wood that my kids will always walk away with splinters 
from so while it’s most convenient for us I try to avoid it as it’s 
the smallest one in town and will cause splinters every time. 
It desperately needs updating. 
The enforcement of dogs off leash is non existent. I have 
small children and Lions Park is full of people who disregard 
that your pets must be leashed and it makes me feel very 
unsafe that these animals are constantly off leash and 
uncontrollable. 
we need more indoor facility space for games and practices
lack of indoor practice space for outdoor sports
The department does not get the word out on what is 
offered.
 I wish I could use Martin Luther King Jr Park but the 
transient population makes it unsafe to do so. 
Pool too cold
Unaware of what the City offers. Lack of advertising. 
Not open in the summer (ice arena)
The existing Greenways are fairly well maintained, even 
seem to get plowed in winter; weather-wise, it's the 
challenge of getting to the greenway that sucks due to 
sidewalks not being cleared of snow. There is a lack of 
connection to the greenways from other potential access 
points to the greenway. Many roadways like US-30, East 
Lincolnway, College Drive, and others have a lack of 
infrastructure to support means of travel besides the car, and 
what infrastructure does exist is poorly maintained and/or 
very low quality (feels unsafe).
Bathroom facilities would be nice
Too many unleashed dogs
Ice is not year round at Events Center
Homeless people casing the places or camping.
Ice rink doesn't offer year round ice. 
You don’t have ice year round so we are stuck driving to 
Colorado for any ice time. We spend a lot of money outside 
our city for this reason. Over $1,000 every summer. 
Swim pool has few and short open swim hours
The ice is no longer available to play hockey. 
In the summer it’s the lack of ice for the kids to skate.  Have 
to go Colorado or drive to Casper
We are part of the hockey community and are very dismayed 
at the lack of year round ice accessibility. It's unfortunate that 
the city builds gymnastic facilities and remodels the botanic 
gardens only to take away ice from our kids just to put in 
roller skating that no one uses. As far as events outside of 
hockey season most are now at the Archer so that isn't really 
a reason to pull ice in February.
Ice is only seasonal so we go out of town
No ice for summer skating activities
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  2827  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
We don’t have year round ice so we have to drive to Colorado 
weekly to play hockey and ice skate 
Bad advertising.  You don't find out about activities until they 
are booked or over
BEAST Manger, Andrew Coe 
Not enough bathrooms, lack shelter space if storm comes 
up, too many people in a small space
All the paths are pavement it would be nice to have some 
soft dirt trails to run on. 
Multi-use facilities not available for my desired sport
Ice at ice and events center is only during the winter and 
switched out in the summer.  The city already has a year 
round roller rink. The ice and events center should remain 
ice all year long. 
There is no ice for hockey in the summer so Colorado gets all 
of our money or other year round rinks in WY 
Being told by management we aren't important 
The ice and event center is not managed appropriately and 
is not conducive for kids to learn the game of hockey. Other 
facilities that are less than an hour away offer more for kids 
and families are willing to go to the other facilities due to 
the lack of opportunities at the ice arena here. The ice and 
events center is poorly run. 
Poor cold weather rec options.  
Ice rink is not year around. We go to greeley casper and foco 
and other Colorado facilities.
MLK is overrun with homeless 
City is up in the air on whether my daughter’s club volleyball 
program can utilize The Beast for practices etc. Eclipse 
volleyball has provided a huge resource to kids, keeping 
them active and out of trouble and now that program may be 
in jeopardy due to having nowhere to practice. 
Lack of indoor practice facilities. 
Not enough indoor space 
Need more fenced dog parks
Flooding tunnels
Johnson Pool badly needs upgraded.  I really haven' 
familiarized myself with BEAST now that the City owns it and 
accessibility.  I wish ice skating was year-round - the kids 
have to backtrack every year in their programming due to the 
long off-season.  The aquatic center has occasionally been 
booked when we wanted to go.  I think that has improved 
without COVID protocols but we've also gotten to where we 
pay for a Cole pool pass rather than hassling with the aquatic 
center schedule. 
Flooding on greenway
I try to avoid loose dogs.  
nothing
QUESTION 11: DO YOU HAVE ANY COMMENTS REGARDING EXISTING CONDITIONS?
This question received 165 open-ended responses.
Do better with surveys, clearly written by people who don’t 
understand the problem or want to do better
The mosquitos at North Park and Cahil can be very bad
Too much dog poop!!  I walk dogs - they poop, I pick it up! Its 
not that hard & makes a big difference in cleanliness. Why 
cant people pick up their dog crap?!?!
Many of the parks could use more interactive activities for 
children and better access and equipment for people with 
disabilities.
I have been very impressed by the snow/ice maintenance on 
the Cheyenne Greenway. 
Need more safe places to let the dogs run. More dog parks. 
Rink is often busiests on evenings and weekends. Facility is 
mostly staff with management during 8-5 and highschoolers 
or young adults managing nights and weekends.  Often times 
trash, stands with trash, paper towels, and toilet paper are 
not addressed.
Aquatic center is aging & could use an outdoor swim. 
I appreciate all the efforts by park staff to keep parks mowed, 
bathrooms open and greenways plowed from snow!
Landscaping at Cahill Park is not always in good shape due 
to use of the park.
It seems that the stardards of care in all areas has declined in 
the last few years
Add bathrooms to parks with tennis courts like Jaycee
Canada thistle needs control on greenway. Goats are NOT 
the answer.
Halladay park sometimes doesn’t feel safe
Transcients in the summer are a problem
Need more events so I don[t have to travel outside Cheyenne, 
need larger spaces to Cheyenne Cruise Nights
Romero is overrun by ATVs. Disc golf course is ruined 
We have to have more indoor rescreation spaces. There has 
to be some empty warehouses in Cheyenne that could be 
turned into i door turf facilities for instance.
Trash needs to be picked up in and around greenway.
Need more/larger year round facility for youth sports and 
track walking! 
I marked community centers as poor because we NEED 
more.  Cheyenne NEEDS a rec center!!!!
I mentioned earlier, but we really need a revamp on Western 
Hills Park. It is an amazing space and is not being maintained 
properly. The bush/tree area has become overgrown in the 
past few years. The drip system exists but doesn't seem to 
work. The trees are dying.The grass is littered with wood 
chips and is dry and dying/sparce. This space is amazing 
in a very nice neighborhood and I would love to see the 
city put more time into maintaining it. Covid seems to have 
completely changed the maintanence of this park. 
Dog poop dispensers are often empty.
Lots of litter on greenway paths and walkways at parks, 
including drug related items
Dog park is used more than any… the beast is busy year 
around.  
No Ada and very little protection from weather at north park 
and cahill
There has never been a sign for Centennial Park.  Sometimes 
motorcycles and snowmobiles use this park like a raceway.
Would love public spaces to be smoke free 
Not enough golf courses, too crowded,  what is time frame 
for development of park on east Pershing to connect with 
Greenway 
Bathrooms at Holiday Park are unsafe
Everything is tough with our weather, takes more care!
Holliday park is very sketchy with all of the homeless people.
Holiday park is not clean you can not use the restroom for it 
being dirty or a homeless person sleeping in the facility. They 
even check your car doers to see if your car is locked when 
they walk around. 
Bathrooms at Holliday Park are not good
Lights at the Holliday Park Tennis courts often do not work 
properly.  .i.e. the timers need to be in sync with darkness.
Pool expansion was underinvested and mountain bike/bike 
infrastructure/trail development is underwhelming.
The increase of unhoused people in the parks have made 
it difficult to want to take the kids out. Even in a large group 
event we are constantly harassed, even having a grown man 
want to pick a fight with my 11 year old son during a church 
barbecue. Security has become the biggest concern for the 
city parks. 
homeless people in holiday park is a problem 
Jaycee Park needs restroom facilities
I know MLK can get a little messy, but the works crew does a 
good job maintaining it.
Holliday park is sometime a little scary
Require people to clean up after pets, especially in summer
RESTROOMS! Keep them clean and OPEN! Too many 
homeless people in the parks, I do not feel safe at times.
North Park could use some litter removal on the dirt trails
They all have room for improvement 
We need to stop wasting money on old facilities and invest in 
a new rec center
I'd love to see new trees planted to replace the ones being 
removed.  
It’s more chat effective to maintain and staff a few larger 
diverse faculties versus more limited poor quality facilities. 
Sell some of that real estate and consolidate
Dog poop in Pando Park
PLASE DONT USE LAWN CHEMICALS, IT DEFEATS THE 
WHOLE PURPOSE WHICH IS FRESH AIR.
Excessive Homeless Population
Way over watered-swampy in many areas
No
Monkey bars seem to have wasp in them often. 
Improve maintenance of mini golf at ice and events center 
I think P&R does an amazing job at keeping our Parks clean 
and in good condition!
Bathrooms being shutdown often. So people who walk in 
colder weather have no facility availability. 
The old Beast Foundation is a facility for sporting events 
especially Club Volleyball
Ice and event center has very poor conditions and very out of 
the way
No
Removing club sports is restricting growth and income from 
our communiy .
Many city owned buildings are poorly managed, not kept 
clean, hours of operation aren’t convenient. 
not enough indoor areas, we need a rec center
I put average on each of these due to the varying conditions 
at different parks given within the list. Some parks have 
newer equipment and are better maintained than others 
from what we have seen. 
City does a great job maintaining the parks and Greenway 
Parks equipment doesn’t get fixed…so more gets trashed 
faster.
litter is the main thing I notice
Drug addicts and sexual weirdos hang out in park restrooms. 
I won't let my kids go in them until I make sure there isn't 
anything gross going on and no drug paraphernalia there
Vandalism is a problem overall, United Nations Park play 
equipment is not in great shape
Q10 is hard to answer because not every facility in a group as 
listed can be rated the same.
We need another ice-skating rink.  One rink open only part of 
the year is not enough.
No
n/a
Would be nice to pressure wash them gazebos every once in 
awhile
North park is a really unique park with off-road style trails for 
hiking and biking it could really use some updates.
Play equipment often has broken or missing pieces. Most 
parks need more mulch. The aquatics center never has all of 
the spray features working, especially the spray park which 
barely worked every time we visited last summer
Bathrooms need to be cleaned more often.
Kids zip line at pioneer park needs help
It seems like an increase in graffiti which is not against the 
parks dept but still sad. Noticed a lot at Mylar park 
Homeless creating unsafe environment at the parks. 
Homeless harassing women with children at Holiday park. 
Vehicles parked during the day at Holliday park having their 
windows broken out with belongings stolen. Homeless 
sleeping out in the open at MLK park. Homeless partying 
during the middle of the day at Coke Gonzalez baseball field 
with open drug use..
Unchecked vandalism is a concern.
No
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  3029  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Aquatic center needs to be torn down and rebuilt with new 
pools and pool systems, locker rooms that are updated with 
showers, sinks and toilets that don’t leak or will work as well 
as putty no thelocker rooms far away from entrance doors. A 
pool that has handicap capabilities for wheel chair entrances 
into the pool that is heated would be great. 
It is a pain and too costly to reserve these spaces
The Ice & Events Center this past Capitals hockey season 
left one not wanting to use the restroom facities. When 
approached, the staff either 1) didn't care, 2) responded with 
the facility was for the Public. The Cheyenne Capitals need to 
move elsewhere. The facilities at north Park are hit or miss. 
Am assuming a contract is awarded to a local business to 
maintain. The port-a-potties may be clean or maybe laying on 
their side due to not being secured. 
Holliday park is close to my house but we refuse to go there 
because of safety concerns 
I will say that Cahill park is often vandalized. It seems the city 
does well to negate when it happens but over the last few 
years its condition has definitely deteriorated. My reason 
for rating poor on open spaces is soley for the desperate 
need for the playground in the dry creek parkway needing to 
desperately be updated. 
Ice and event center seats are broken. Homeless live 
outback. 
Too much goose poop 
Playground surfacing often falling apart
Continue working on cleaning up crow creek from homeless
I'd like to see some improved paths at Kiwanis Park (not sure 
of the name - east on Pershing Blvd extension)
Bathroom availability and cleanliness/maintenance could be 
improved
The green way is lost in many areas and needs more garbage 
cans
I think our parks are beautifully maintained, there's always 
room for improvements or upgrades but I love our parks and 
feel fortunate to have access to them!
Much of the greenway is pretty trashed
I think the city does well given the resources it has
I worry about the MLK park due to transients and drugs
Areas could be updated and better maintained
Some playground equipment needs replacement 
Need to adapt trees and other vegetation to hotter, warmer 
weather and make them low maintenance in the process.
Reduce vandalism 
A lot of dog waste in open parks that aren't developed.  It isn't 
the city's fault but maybe more dog waste receptacles could 
be installed.
Smaller parks need maintenance and refurbishing 
Not cleaned regularly 
Cheyenne's parks are a fantastic community asset. 
The Parks Staff and CRE Team are amazing-  given the many 
tasking they have, they do a wonderful job.
MLK had way too many homeless people 
Lions park Ampetheater needs drainage maintenance and 
would love to see it used for more family friendly events.
None
Remove all of the graffiti at brimmer park skate park next to 
east hish school looks ugly and trash looking
Pickleball cts need number and player management plan, 
seating to watch play and better access to the courts. Safety 
of balls rolling on courts because there are no court dividing 
fencing. City was given all the info. This was ignored. Those 
building knew nothing about the sport.
Mlk park and holliday need to be cleared of homeless and 
druggies.  Very sad that bathroom facilities are not availabe 
on the greenway and some parks. Maybe put cameras up 
and arrest those that destroy the facilities
Holiday park could be kept cleaner, duck poop is always bad 
there
The aquatic center is terrible - the water is freezing for 
kids every single time. We’ve stopped going. Jaycee 
park playground needs some maintenance and swings - 
otherwise love it. 
The restrooms are not accessible, clean, or safe at Cahill 
park
Year round bathrooms are much needed
Need year round ice 
No
Lions park southeast side needs grass and picnic areas 
really bad. Its so barren and ugly.
Big homeless problem at MLK field
No
The ice rink does not have ice year round
Need ice longer, too much traveling to CO for kids ice time.
Ice & Event center, director Jeff, is abusive to his employees, 
renters, and out of town people
City does a good job
Sun Valley Park has no flowers or flowering trees (Liliacs)
The ice and events center needs year round ice!
The ice and events center needs to be renovated and it 
would be amazing to have year round ice. As soon as the ice 
is gone we have to travel to Colorado to meet our needs. I 
would rather stay in town. 
Sometimes the parks have trash on the playground, but trash 
and vandalism are difficult to control. 
The spray park is not worth the money it costs. Its extra feom 
swim admission. Its full of leaves and trash, we didnt have a 
very good time 
Some of the baseball fields are overrun by homeless and 
crazy people. For exame, we call the MLK baseball field 
"murder park" and never practice there without at least 1 
armed parent.
Yes, we don't have enough inddor space.
So many mosquitos at mylar
Jason Sanchez’ crew is responsive to park updates.
Bathrooms are not always stocked properly. Places generally 
are neat and clean. I enjoy the parks and open spaces here. 
More Bathroom access year round would be very nice to see. 
Need full time ice and move summer events elsewhere 
Plowing during the winter on the greenway is phenomenal
The east community park needs mowed 
There is so much dog poop on the recreational fields and 
parks!! 
Weeds could be controlled inside the playground areas of 
the neighborhood parks
Ice rink cant even keep ice year round
Ice and event center cleanliness, conditions of property 
showing lot of wear and tear, concessions inadequate 
compared to other facilities in other communities
We more winter sports areas……..hills like the one in sun 
valley park. Ice skating etc
Open up sloans lake for swimming clean up the lake so 
people can enjoy it.
Need more indoor recreation options and support for kids 
and people of all ages 
No
Ice rink seats are broken, heater only halfway works, locker 
rooms and restrooms are deteriorating.
Yellowstone underpass is constantly filthy and flooded. It’s 
impossible to use most of the summer making it so there are 
no safe options for crossing Yellowstone on foot. 
We have stopped using Cahill Park and Holiday Park due to 
safety concerns. 
Goose droppings are starting to become more of an issue 
again.
We need more nature walk areas that actually focus on a 
healthy, native ecosystem, and public education 
Some of the best I have seen.
You wrapped some really nice places in the areas that are 
marked poor like Cahill park that is very nice and Kiwanis 
community center that is takin very good care but the 
aquatics center is always closed and is a bit run down 
North Park NEEDS MORE BATHROOMS, AND THEY NEED 
TO BE OPEN LONGER AND EARLIER. 
 Ice and Events is amazingly well kept considering the 
surroundings.
City should invest in renovating older exhisting facilities
I think Jason and his team do an excellent job.  I'm not a big 
fan of the porta-potties in winter but understand why. 
Most grass areas are overwatered resuling in puddles and 
muddy areas.  Greenway tunnels fill with storm water and 
are frequently full for weeks or longer. Bathrooms often need 
maintenance, toilet paper, soap and hand sanitizer. Vagrants 
congregate at MLK Jr park and Holiday Park, making these 
areas feel unsafe.
MLK park is an insult to the man it was named after.
Restrooms -  I know it's just about impossible to keep them 
clean and the vagrants out of them, but please patrol more 
often.
I wish that you would consult with the Cheyenne Audubon 
group before cutting down shrubs.  
Love the parks
More native planting
QUESTION 12: FOR EACH TYPE OF FACILITY, PLEASE INDICATE IF THERE IS TOO MUCH, 
TOO LITTLE, OR THE RIGHT AMOUNT TO SERVE THE COMMUNITY.
This question received 44 open-ended responses.
Golf into enough 
play equipment for people with handicapped 
Amenities on the greenway
Golf
shade trees
more lighted tennis courts
Need more sport teams to be able to come.  Need more car 
shows
More green spaces, pocket park’s downtown 
More trees! Especially for dog parks!
Golf courses
Downtown parks
Indoor Tennis Courts
Indoor tennis
Need more tennis court lighting 
where are the indoor tennis courts that every other major 
city features?
Na
Golf Options
Closed structures open to public use. There is not much 
ability to gather in public spaces when it is cold outside. It's 
like only being allowed to have a community half the year.
rec center
with our weather, INDOOR AMENITIES/ACTIVITIES!
please consider a greenway along Sheridan st. by the creek. 
there is little greenway for these parts north of Dell Range 
and it would help clean up that area!
Indoor track/indoor rec center
Baby swings
we need a nice/safe outdoor pool/facility and more 
indoor practice/game facilities for all the months we have 
poor weather.  we often go out of town for these types of 
amenities
Water fountains along the green way would be fantastic
Climbing walls
Parks in general 
None
We need year round ice skating.  We need 2 ice rinks
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  3231  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
this town needs an indoor track facility
Get more dog parks and add more light around the green 
ways
Lighting along the greenway (doesn't even exist at 
intersection points usually). Also, connections to areas that 
would shorten the distance to access greenway.
Rec Center like every other town in Wyoming
Clean benches and seating
South Cheyenne golf course
Signs and dotted lines on greenway to dictate right and left 
side
Indoor track facility
Rec center
Need year around ice
Outdoor public running track
Bike pump track.
Recreation space for kids in the community
Doggie pots
Neighborhood parks need restrooms. NORTH PARK NEEDS 
RESTROOMS ON THE NORTHEAST SIDE.
QUESTION 14: COMMUNITIES PROVIDE PARKS, RECREATIONAL AMENITIES, TRAILS, AND 
OPEN SPACES FOR A VARIETY OF REASONS. PLEASE RATE HOW IMPORTANT YOU THINK 
EACH OF THESE PURPOSES IS FOR CHEYENNE.
This question received 52 open-ended responses.
Decrease loneliness 
Provide safe spaces to exercise pets.
Dog parks
slow runoff, flood control, improve water quality
indoor tennis courts
Public transportation 
Focus on YEAR ROUND facilities for youth sports and track 
walking. 
Picnics
Weed control on all streets
Tennis
Provide indoor recreation facilities for the city
Dogs, dogs, dogs--taking precedence her people and 
spreading ticks! People should have the right of way.
Public forum. There are very few publicly available spaces 
that are free of charge.
More indoor sports facilities and outdoor fields
Support our kids
Allowing club teams to continue using Old Beast facility
Rec center!
Club sports
rec center for teens/kids
Sanity when the weather (wind!) is bad
None
Foster Economic Development 
allow handicapped adults and children access to nature.
Attract residents to be active
Hosting youth tournaments so we don’t trade to Colo all the 
time
Enhance community’s outdoor recreating
Access to sports fields year round
the ability to host not only local but larger events/sports 
competitions/etc 
Cheyenne needs indoor practice facilities for sports as well 
as better facilities to host tournaments
Promote community and neighborhood interactions 
We LOVE the greenway for weekend transportation
To give opportunities to our youth.
Have a Rev Center
an indoor recreation center like Gillette has
Minimize risk of extreme incidents such as car crashes, car 
vs person/bicycle, etc. People keep getting hit by cars going 
at a high rate of speed.
Mental health
Year round, easy access, kids facility
None
Preserve open and green space 
Indoor facilities for poor weather 
Indoor meetings facility. Library rooms normally booked 
Safe places
Keep the ice rink open all year round. 
Safety
Growth of youth sports opportunities 
Keep the ice rink open year round!!!!
Entertain the youth, rec center!
Rec center 
Safe places to run and walk without traffic or bikes
Indoor exercise and walking paths for use during poor 
weather. 
Drainage and groundwater recharge.
Greenspace is good for individual health.  
QUESTION 15: HOW IMPORTANT DO YOU THINK IT IS FOR CHEYENNE TO INVEST IN THE 
FOLLOWING IN THE NEXT TEN YEARS IN RESPONSE TO COMMUNITY GROWTH?
This question received 50 open-ended responses.
A true rec center for everyone can go to one place
S
Increase indoor recreation space
Dog parks
expand tree canopy
Expand or improve golf courses
Downtown park spaces
Recreation center for all ages
Close in driving.  No more traveling 15+ miles for rec
The drug and transient and loitering problems MUST BE 
ADDRESSED ASAP!
Build another ice rink 
Recreation center
Indoor walking track in a rec center
Club sports
rec center for kids/teens
Indoor park/amenities is very very important! 
Gymnastics facility
None
Indoor recreation facility 
Belvoir Ranch accessibility 
Maintain what we have first. Don't build/acquire more until 
current properties are well taken care of.
All expenditures utilizing tax dollars should be ballot items
Access for athletes year round at North Park. Year round ice 
at the Ice and Event center.
i think most important is indoor facilities
NEED indoor practice facilities and better outdoor fields to 
host tournaments
Include a space for rock climbing
Include parks in older neighborhoods 
More golf courses 
Connect West Cheyenne and Downtown to the Greenway
More bike yrails
lions park amphitheater for more family friendly concerts
We need 2 year round ice arenas
Maintain urban core/centrally located parks as the flagship 
parks - holiday/lions/aquatic center. 
Indoor sports facilities/indior track facility
Year round ice at events center
Year round ice 
Inddor track and indoor sports facility 
Have ice skating year round
Improve and renovate current indoor recreation facilities
Expand the swimming lessons to the school pools such 
as east to offer more times, the classes always fill up very 
quickly and forces me to use private, or they are i ly offered 
during work hours
Build a year round ice rink
Indoor track
Add a second sheet of ice and an indoor sports arena
Side side parks
Rec center please! 
Year around ice
Expand the greenway and create unpaved bike trails.
Keep organizations that utilize The Beast, able to continue to 
use The Beast as before so that the community is not losing 
organizations that have provided a huge resource to kids.
test
test
QUESTION 17: HOW DO YOU FIND OUT INFORMATION ABOUT THE CITY’S RECREATION 
FACILITIES, EVENTS, PROGRAMS, PARKS, TRAILS, OR NATURAL AREAS? 
This question received 33 open-ended responses.
wait, what - you have a newsletter? how do I sign up for the 
newsletter?
 Visit Cheyenne
need more info!
Newspapers 
Newspaper
This survey is way too long
Tribune Eagle
Online news sources without pay walls
Visit Cheyenne newsletter
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  3433  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
QUESTION 18: DO YOU HAVE OTHER COMMENTS OR SUGGESTIONS FOR CHEYENNE’S 
PARKS, TRAILS, AND OPEN SPACES SYSTEM?
This question received 201 open-ended responses.
We need a large outdoor pool for the community.  Buffalo, 
WY has an amazing outdoor pool that could be used as an 
example for Cheyenne!  
"Please put more greenway on the west side of town, I don't 
want to have to bike like 5 extra miles to go to work safely or 
risk my safety. 
"
"Do the best you can with what we have. Don’t add more 
to your budget such an another park with out having more 
funding. You have a lot to take care of now with the funding 
you have.  
Think into the future of more golf because it is so hard now to 
get a tee time.Add more people to community and who will 
get to play, just a few people"
Yes, if you want community feedback make the survey easier 
to find and leverage social media. I only found this survey by 
accident, so better Cheyenne.
More pet friendly parks. A place that pets can be off leash to 
run and train. 
Please invest in micro parks in all neighborhoods - even 
just installing play equipment at existing facilities (softball, 
baseball fields) or making greater use of small green spaces
This is a very important component of our community - keep 
investing in this system.
Please add dog poop bags and trash cans in the open area 
at North park. I love walking there but may pet owners don't 
pick up there trash. I'd like to see smaller parks get upgrades 
so more people can access them and please add more 
toilets at the parks and in winter when many are closed.  
Thanks. I love our parks and appreciate the work that goes 
into them!
Finding safe access to the Livingston Walmart should be a 
fairly high priority since there are so many people regularly 
crossing the tracks and walking along the viaduct to walk 
to Walmart. Also having legal off-leash dog walking areas 
within a 10 min drive of eastern Cheyenne would be hugely 
beneficial and regularly used.
Keep up the good work. Put up more poop bag dispensers 
throughout the park system. Make a safe place to let the 
dogs run free without getting a ticket from animal control. 
"Maximize resources by applying for grants.  
We need an outdoor pool. 
Scholarships/discounts for children on SNAP or homeless/
less fortunate."
Love the Greenway!
Great asset to the community, but need to continue to 
maintain and improve the park system.  The two new 
additions of Rotary and Kiwanis parks are a big step into 
the future.  The development of their master plans is a great 
vision of their development.  Sixth penny tax funds should be 
sought to make them happen as soon as possible.  Start with 
Rotary Park as it is not a large park and pieces of Kiwanis 
Park to show the community progress is being made.
concentrate on maintaining current facilities and acreage at 
a more optimal level
Restrooms at tennis courts would be great.
Don't put park benches adjacent to trash cans...they stink! 
Plant trees close enough to paved greenway so that one day 
they may actually shade the path. Open space! Front Range 
Cities are light years ahead of understanding the appeal of 
open space. Cheyenne needs to get with it if this city hopes 
to compete economically with our southern neighbors. 
Business owners locate based on quality of life, not just 
economics, so ameneties like open space help lure business.
More restroom or port-a-potties at small parks like Jaycee 
Park.
Online Cheyenne news sites
I think the problem is that I don't find out about anything like 
that. Have you guys considered radio ads?
newspaper
Local News Feed
signage
extremely important to increase marketing of these facilities.  
out-of-site, out-of-mind.  
The recreation guide that gets mailed to my house
Mostly by accident 
Facebook
Community newsletter like The Legend
Department does a poor job of advertising what is offered.
Newspaper, City Rec catalog
newspaper - WTE
City employee email
Newspaper 
Stumbling across them when moving through the city.
Cheyenne needs a website to announce ALL activities in the 
city.  
Council & Commission meetings
Ice and event center calendar
Wyoming Tribune Eagle
City or other organizations mailings 
Email from the Recreation Department 
workplace
Communication for youth sports is awful. No one knows 
when anything is happening and so many parents/kids miss 
sign ups because they never knew they were happening. 
Very much appreciate the availability of parks, trails and open 
spaces for recreational use.
Need more options to hold larger events for car shows and 
gatherings.  Need to have facilities so more larger sporting 
events can come to Cheyenne.
Maintain green spaces, plant more trees and water them!  
Pickup trash and get rid of graffiti in prone areas like 
greenway. 
The city really needs a year-round facility for youth sports 
to continue and for aging adults to keep walking in a less-
windy, more safe environment. Research the indoor athletic 
facility on Offutt AFB in NE. Would be a fantastic start!!! Take 
a portion of the dead mall and bring it alive with sports and a 
health and wellness focus. 
Thank you for looking at solutions!
Getting city info is difficult 
"Please invest in downtown parks! Example being a pocket 
park next to the Tivoli building. Encourage spaces for 
concerts, etc. downtown in addition to Depot Plaza.  
 
Weeds in medians and along sidewalks have been really bad 
the past few summers.  
 
I already mentioned Western Hills Park - so many people 
would be so grateful for a renewed look at its maintanence 
specifically as it pertains to the bush/tree area and the grass. 
It is so overlooked that a person whose backyard is adjacent 
to the park has built their own garden bed in the easement! 
Complete misuse of city land and ruins the aesthetic of the 
park. Just an example that this park is obviously not being 
looked at closely. However, I do appreciate how well kept 
our city is overall. I know a huge amount of effort is put into 
it beautification and the city does a WONDERFUL job. These 
are just suggestions for improvements. "
We need more indoor space for all of our community 
members. 
We moved here 2 yrs ago.  It would be nice to be able to 
have a map of the city.  We know where only a few parks are.  
Unrelated, but we couldn't find the entrance to the airport 
until one day I saw the sign by accident.  I'm 69 & lived in 4 
other states & nowhere but here are there intersections with 
NO stop signs.  What's up with that?  Perhaps stop signs 
ought to have a greater priority than parks.
Indoor facilities for recreation would enhance quality of life 
for all residents (youth and adult programming). The weather 
isn’t great here so indoor space is incredibly important in 
ensuring people are active.
Tennis is growing, and other communities in the state are 
outpacing Cheyenne for facilities. This is something that 
would bring people to town, for tournaments, state high 
school tournament, etc. We need good lighting as well as 
indoor facilities for the winter months.
Whatever you do to make better……do a first class job, not 
1/2 way!!!  
A new indoor area for tennis and pickleball would be very 
popular I think!
Adding in single track trails for biking in existing parks helps 
increase the usage available in existing spaces.  
The Ice and Event Center needs to keep ice year round.
Indoor facilities (like indoor tennis/pickleball courts, workout 
facilities or other multi-use courts) seem like the number 
one opportunity to attract and create additional year-round 
accessibility and opportunities. With our Cheyenne weather, 
I believe that these indoor options can be the best use of 
redirecting or utilizing future funds. 
Would like to see some additional public indoor racquet 
sports facilities.  Thank you for asking for our feedback.
Please turn the lights on at Holliday park earlier! 
The recent purchase by the City of the BEAST facility has 
pushed out the largest, most well run and most established 
youth volleyball league, Eclipse, and other teams. This 
program is extremely well coached, valuable to the 
community and leads to high school seniors getting sports 
scholarships every year. Because the City has decided to run 
their adult leagues in this facility, Eclipse and other teams 
may not exist in the future due to lack of available courts. The 
City should always prioritize youth sports opportunities over 
adult leagues and should invest in a large volleyball facility, 
as this is the fastest growing youth sport in the nation.
With a few exceptions, I think Cheyenne pales in comparison 
with our front range neighbors.  If Cheyenne wishes to 
attract businesses, retirees, tourists, etc. then the city needs 
to make major improvements in what it offers residents and 
visitors who seek quality recreational opportunities.  The 
Children’s Garden and the Botanic Gardens are examples of 
what can and should be done to bring Cheyenne up to the 
level of neighboring communities.
Please don’t build a center where a private company wants 
to manage it through taxation 
Keep investing and transforming Cheyenne. Existing and 
future generations deserve expanded opportunities close to 
home.
It feels like the parks have been in a transition away from 
recreational spaces to event locations. As a kid it seemed 
more of a place where we could gather for a pickup 
game of touch football or to fire up a barbecue and throw 
a frisbee. but all of the smaller picnic enclosures have 
been consolidated into large gathering pavilions. While it 
is understandable to have large gathering locations, the 
removal of the smaller areas does not seem to advance 
the accessibility of the park system as a gathering place. 
I feel like niche projects like the greenway and the new 
pickleball courts have precluded the improvement of 
general community space. I feel like 80% of the recent 
"improvements" have not improved on community 
recreation. A prime example is the marsh exploration area 
at peanut pond. It was something that initially seemed like 
an educational experience. but has become a breeding 
ground for overgrown reeds and mosquitos. The addition 
of the Splash Pad was an incredible addition to the city's 
recreational locals, however it feels like Parks & Recs are 
more concerned with the feeding habits of geese and 
squirrels than they are with the infrastructure of community 
recreation. 
CFD indoor tennis facility is abysmal.  If you are attempting to 
discourage tennis in Cheyenne, bad weather is your pal and 
CFD courts are your tool.
"I like the direction the city id moving with regards to 
improving recreation opportunities, like the purchase of 
""The Beast"". And I like the friendliness and helpful nature of 
the staff.  
I would like to see the floor at ""The Beast"" to be mopped 
more frequently. (Maybe an over night ""Robotic"" mopping 
system?"
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  3635  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
I would like to see the continued support for tennis courts 
and to have pickleball have their own courts without taking 
over already existing tennis courts.  It would be wonderful if 
the city could provide indoor courts for tennis as they have 
done for pickleball.  
Please keep restrooms open and clean. Remove homeless 
people. Develop Belvoir trail system as promised years ago. 
Work to get a better indoor tennis center.
Love the Greenway and parks overall.  I would appreciate it 
if the bathrooms were available all year long.  I understand 
issues with vandalism, but I am one of the good guys who 
just needs to go sometimes when I am out running and 
biking.  Or if the bathrooms can't be unlocked, maybe add 
porta potties during the offseason?
Having neighborhood green space is important to my spirit, 
and studies show it helps lower stress and crime. Keep up 
your good work! 
People are jogging, playing, breathing hard so please stop 
using lawn chemicals! Please.  And the transients, teen 
groups and drug (and urination/defecation) trends must be 
addressed.  Finally, dog walkers often overrun the rights of 
people just plain walking. Not fair.
I think publicly available spaces are necessary for the 
community culture to grow. Especially in the winter time, 
culture seems to stagnate in Cheyenne. More indoor public 
options could help with that, and they could help cement 
parks as a year-round option for social gatherings of all kinds.
We really need a rec center. I hope that the city could pair 
up with the school districts and county and build a nice 
facility that could generate revenue and provide a place for 
the youth and a safe space for the elderly to stay social and 
active!
It's kind of lame you let Saddle Ridge residents dictate not 
adding another sports area in "their" subsivision
More MTB trails would be great
Keep the Beast gym for volleyball practices
Build a recreation center for indoor sports
We need places for youth to play sports, host tournaments 
to bring in revenue for the community (hotels, food, etc). We 
travel to CO almost every weekend and we’d love to be able 
to support our own community. 
"I would like to see Cheyenne indoor gym facilities be more 
accessible to youth sports clubs.  I have been disappointed 
in the transition of the BEAST from a private entity to a city 
facility, but I ultimately was pleased that the city decided 
to honor the contracts in place.  I would like to see better 
cooperation between the City and youth sports clubs moving 
forward.  
We are in desperate need of a rec center.  I would love to see 
a rec center with lots of room for youth sports and also an 
indoor walking track for our harsh winters.  "
No
My daughter, along with over 100 plus athletes have a see 
Beast facility for club volleyball practices. It has grown in 
popularity so much and will continue as the years go on. We 
don't have the space like Casper or Gillette to accommodate 
these club teams. The past years it's always been great to 
use Beast. But now that the city has bought the facility, I feel 
like it's not going to be a good thing in our favor. And quite 
frankly we have nowhere else to go. And volleyball is a huge 
sport nation wide and will continue to grow exponentially. 
It has grown leaps and bound over the last 5 years. I hope 
that yall will work with us and allow us to continue to use the 
Beast facility. 
"Be cognizant of what happens to private facilities that are 
purchased by the city and how they impact non-city affiliated 
programs.  Huge concerns with the purchase of the BEAST 
facility as indoor space for volleyball/basketball clubs is very 
limited.  City can't provide all programs for all levels of play 
which is where the independent clubs come in.  Without 
proper space to operate a club for competitive leagues it's 
just another thing pushing our youth to Colorado where they 
have many many options for club sports that also come at 
premium for price.  However, if there are no options due to 
no practice/game locations available in the City it doesn't 
matter what the costs are people will take their kids to where 
there are at least options.   Born and raised in Cheyenne and 
I'm tired of the City/State giving more reasons for people to 
leave due to lack of viable options to keep their families here.  
Invest in Wyoming, invest in Cheyenne, invest in our youth 
otherwise this town will be nothing but an aging retirement 
community. 
 
Frustrated with lack of infrastructure investment as a whole 
even competing with other WY towns for Club/High School 
sporting event hosting.  Other cities like Gillette don't 
charge field use for tournaments because they understand 
it's a loss leader.  The money ""lost"" on field use pales in 
comparison to the economic impact when many teams with 
many families come and stay in hotels, eat at restaurants, 
and shop at our stores.  This is the capital of WY and it's 
embarrassing when looking at what other communities 
have built.  Laramie, Casper, Gillette have way more options 
and way nicer facilities to serve the local community while 
attracting others."
Myself and my family is very disappointed in the recent 
purchase of the Beast Foundation for adult men to play drop.
in basketball, this removes club sports and opportunities for 
our youth to grow. This is very harmful to our youth that have 
a chosen and path for college sports. 
I love all of the outdoor spaces. Keep up the good work.
The City’s purchase of The Beast facility has been 
detrimental to sports clubs that used that facility for team 
practice.  The ways the city are currently using the space are 
a waste of resources.  We desperately need more multi sport 
indoor facilities to support the community instead of forcing 
individuals to go to Colorado. 
We need a rec center to keep kids engaged and out of 
trouble.  A 1 stop, big rec center like every other town in WY 
has, but our capital city wont get.
I think above all else, we need a rec center with pool tables, 
a gym, etc. where our youth and families can go to spend the 
day that has options of entertainment for everyone to enjoy. 
Especially on the cold or windy days. 
Keep up the great work 
"Bring in more for the youth to do. They need places to go- 
this is even more important now that social media is being 
overwhelming.  
We need a large rec center 
We need more pools 
We need a rock climbing gym/ninja warrior 
"
Add trails, bathrooms, and interpretation at the High Plains 
Arboretum
Keep the homeless out.
I REFUSE to pay for a Recreation Center until ALL THE 
ROADS ARE FIXED AND WELL MAINTAINED. You have 
already been shot down on that in how many elections?  
STOP TRYING TO FORCE IT ON THE VOTERS by bundling it 
with other stuff. Y'all are stupid by doing it that way.
Remove homeless, trash, and vandalism, provide safe place 
for Families to enjoy the park, for example, there are lots of 
ignored problems at Holiday Park
the maintenance teams that mow/clean Holliday Park need 
to be better trained to deal with public.  walkers in the park 
feel like if they try to report something it falls on deaf ears. 
New ideas and improvements sound good, but it would be 
awesome if planning and funding would go towards existing 
facilities/infrastructure/etc. maintenance and upkeep. One 
example would be clearing blockages along Dry Creek on a 
regular basis.
"Can't emphasize enough to increase indoor facilities such 
as aquatic pool (that has more  
interesting slides, water activities), bowling, billiards/pool 
table, pingpong table, corn hole, tennis, golf simulator, 
foosball, walking area, ""hanging out"" area with better 
concession stands for food/drinks and without getting blown 
away by 40-mile winds!  I'm picturing an indoor botanic park 
(similar to the botanic garden but bigger and with amenities) 
with glass ceiling to let the shine in or mimick the weather 
outside but still protected by the walls/ceiling.  A brewery 
right beside the indoor park and an outdoor park so that 
when weather is beautiful, doors can be opened and people 
have the option to extend their walk/activities outside.  
We are currently looking for a venue to host our company 
party but there's only ice and events to hold our group that 
can provide activities (limited too - just bumper car, laser tag, 
skating, arcade and mini golf).  ice and events gets old when 
you've had the party there for 3 straight years.  Kiwanis is 
beautiful but its just a space - pool table, foosball, pingpong, 
board games, indoor hoops other indoor games would be 
nice to add to it as option to use.  "
It would be great if the greenway trails were to actually 
connect all throughout the city so it could be safe to run long 
distances.
Homeless population living/sleeping in / near parks. 
"Please expand the iceskating rinks and swimming pools.  
It would be nice to have something here like Ft Collings 
- the Fort with go cart racing etc.  With the military base 
and community college, Cheyenne needs more recreation 
possibilities.   Laramie has a lot more than Cheyenne and it's 
smaller. 
"
Would love to see Belvoir open to the public for hiking and 
biking!!!
Good that many parks double as stormwater infrastructure; 
like multifunctionality. Would like to see more greenway 
closer to Downtown if possible (to make it make sense for 
actual commuting)
Please consider an extension to the greenway along 
Sheridan St. beside the creek. it could be a beautiful spot if 
cleaned up and that area north of dell range has no greenway 
access.
We have lots of facilities to the older population and are 
missing the teens and tweens grouo
Let’s get that trail system off Otto Road going!
I think it's just as important to provide natural spaces for 
wildlife as for people. Increasing the amount of unmowed 
areas could provide spaces for wildlife and reduce 
maintenance costs. I recommend partnering with Cheyenne-
High Plains Audubon Society for ideas to enhance human-
nature experiences.
If the City Ranch trail system becomes a real thing it would 
be amazing! Gowdy is over run by people from Colorado
Please work on increasing places that would be good for 
children even in bad weather. 
I wish the Greenway connected better.  Also, I wish 
the Converse Greenway safely connected to the Bluffs 
neighborhood and Dell Range
I’d like to see more stuff to promote exercise. I’d also like to 
see the greenway expand to connect more of the city. 
I will not vote for anything tied into downtown or frontier 
days.  U need to invest in our youth. Hold tournament’s here 
otherwise every weekend to Colo. Have u ever thought of all 
the money going across the border. Everywhere we went this 
last year towns investing in their youth, beautiful upgrades 
to facilities or brand new ones. When we comment on these 
facilities, they say we have to invest in out youth otherwise 
they will leave!. I’m sick of downtown & frontier days. I don’t 
live downtown, I live in Cheyenne.
With their natural beauty & open spaces, both Belvoir Ranch 
& High Plains Arboretum have the potential to surpass both 
Lions & Holiday Parks as the city’s Crown Jewels.
Additional benches and trash cans along the walkways 
would help dog walkers and people with mobility issues. 
Quit buying up properties that could be bringing in property 
tax dollars
We live in the Bluffs subdivision and there is a neighborhood 
park located at the cross section of Plainview Road and 
Chapel Hill Drive with absolutely no cross walk. Plainview is a 
decently busy street and there have been multiple times that 
I have felt uneasy crossing it with no close crosswalk. Kids 
play outside in this neighborhood all the time and the park is 
often busy. I believe this would add a level of safety to ensure 
cars are paying attention and children/families have the 
ability to access the park safely. 
Please add some sort of shade to the playgrounds! Holliday 
park is the only playground that receives any sort of shade 
on the playground in summer. Unless you go to the part 
extremely early in the morning all the equipment is to hot by 
mid morning to play on summer. 
Cheyenne doesn't need anymore Greenway space or trails. 
We need year around ice for kids at the event center. Better 
access to North Park. Kids shouldn't have to go to other 
parks to play soccer year round. Better indoor facilities for all 
kids not just gym space for basketball.
"Look into Tulsa's The Gathering Place. You can Garner a lot 
of inspiration from here. We need something like this for our 
community that would also facilitate all 4 seasons. We do this 
it becomes an additional pull for tourism.  
 
https://www.gatheringplace.org/"
The lack of shade on and around playground structures and 
the distance between tables and the structures consistently 
make the parks hard to enjoy. 
Where are the birds? Doesn't seem to be as many nowadays 
around Holliday and Lions parks. I kind of miss those cheeky 
squirrels in Holliday Park; haven't seen as many lately as I 
saw a few months ago.
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  3837  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Cheyenne has not kept up with the need for available spaces 
for children/pre-teen/teen activities, sports, and practices 
in a climate that is not favorable for outdoor use a majority 
of the year. For example, a lot of rec soccer games get 
cancelled in spring due to weather. A lot of rec and club 
sports do not have places to practice or play games or host 
tournaments in the 9 months of the year that weather is poor 
(in addition to sports that are designed to be indoors like 
volleyball and basketball). I think a major focus needs to be 
placed on creating a large indoor facility that encompasses 
space for all of these things and several to use at one time. I 
would also love to see an outdoor pool that is affordable for 
membership, offer accessible swim lessons and leisure time 
as well. I also think volleyball needs to be offered at an age 
younger than 4th grade and ideally in the fall to allow kids 
to participate in softball and soccer in the spring w/o all the 
overlap for games and practices.
Overall, Cheyenne has great outdoor facilities but it severely 
lacking in indoor facilities for sports to practice/ play 
in (lacrosse, baseball).  In addition, we travel all over for 
tournaments in baseball and lacrosse and Cheyenne does 
not have adequate fields to host a tournament for lacrosse.  
The baseball fields are good but not the bathrooms/  
concessions compared to others we travel to.
As a Wyoming native I have chosen to raise my kids in 
Cheyenne. I am saddened by the lack of parks, indoor 
recreation areas and green way trails  available for them to 
grow up with compared to smaller communities within our 
state. Please consider a park near/around the Eastridge 
neighborhood as we have nothing to offer children in this 
area of town as well as an indoor recreation facility to foster 
healthy habits and encourage our youth to be involved in 
activities. 
The land by the airport would be a great place for a small 
park and welcome visitors to growing community as they 
enter Cheyenne. 
Department seems to have reduced their focus of 
community amenities and programming. The "recreation" 
side seems to be an afterthought and the diminishing 
numbers proves it.
We support additional resource allocation for our beautiful 
parks system! Thank you Cheyenne employees who keep our 
parks beautiful and growing! We would have left Cheyenne a 
long time ago without access to beautiful outdoor spaces! 
"I would like to see a warmer pool, with a membership for 
classes...i.e. water aerobics  
Cold pools are no fun for kids and older folks, we need a 
warm therapy pool. 
I would like to see more golf courses, with the 10k influx we 
are anticipating we will need more golf options.  "
I think the biggest priority for the city should be connecting 
downtown to the greenway system with protected bike/
walking paths. It is a shame that you can safely bike almost 
anywhere in town except the downtown/capitol area.
We need a real rec center. Gillette wy has an excellent model 
to follow
As a city we need to focus on making walking, biking, 
and other forms of alternative transportation safe and 
reasonable. This city is the perfect size to have extensive 
routes for these things and yet most of the sidewalks are 
being uprooted and left I maintained making walking even 
around downtown a safety hazard.
Stop gouging people to use your facilities! You are supposed 
to be here from our tax dollars and to support community 
activities and involvement. Holding more facilities in contract 
than what you currently need only hurts our community and 
especially our youth. 
The new park on Dell Range should be kept either largely 
or completely in its natural state with invasive species 
mitigation and minimal maintenance such as goat grazing.  
I fully support keeping a large portion of the new eastside 
Kiwanis Park in its natural state and seasonally unburdened 
in certain areas (similar to USFS Pole Mtn).  Speaking of Pole 
Mtn/Med Bow Nat'l Forest, the city should partner to link 
Belvoir Ranch with other natural areas in WY and CO.  Also, 
we need to work around UP to open limited access to Belvoir 
but emphasize natural conservation.
We need an indoor rec center!!!
Second sheet of ice that can be open year round. 
In general, I support increasing revenue that's dedicated to 
expanding and maintaining Cheyenne's parks and Greenway 
in order to expand a culture that promotes healthy outdoor 
activities and keeps pedestrians/bicyclists away from vehicle 
traffic.
More dog friendly places to walk off leash. 
Keep adding more trails 
Really appreciate the work that is done to establish and 
maintain these areas for all to enjoy!!
Need a recreation center and another ice arena that can 
have ice year round
We need a Rec Center! 
None at this time.
N/A
Enough with the outdoor parks that people don't use. The 
watering, mowing, and other maintenance eats up so much 
money when people don't use it. Invest in places that have 
interest and let private clubs use facilities. The city doesn't 
have to put on the programs. Work with programs and clubs 
already in place.
I feel that a recreation center is a must! It is shameful that we 
don’t have one. I’m sure you’ve been around the state and 
have seen the rec centers that other communities have. 
"Since the Beast was bought by the city, many sports have 
been displaced. This has a huge impact on volleyball, 
basketball, softball to name a few.  The school district is 
unwilling to commit to allow those programs space in the 
schools before August.  
This is a big problem for many club teams. "
We need a recreational center with multiple sports avail in it- 
ice skating, climbing wall, weight equipment,  soccer facility,  
swimming, basketball....
This is the capitol city and we don't have a large recreation 
center like Gillette, Casper and Douglas, that should be a 
source of embarassment to this city
We need a full rec center. The amount of amenities that can 
be consolidated into a single location is massive and the 
benefits are huge. 
Remove all graffiti including on the downtown Jack R. Spiker 
Parking Facility and over at brimmer Park skate park next 
to east high school. This so called graffiti poise nothing to 
cheyenne other than make it look ugly and trashy please 
remove do better at keeping onto of this ugly graffiti makes 
cheyenne trashy 
City needs to do a survey of the residents, needs, what 
facilities you have now, what’s missing. More rec and 
facilities for your aging population. 
It'd be nice to see better crossings on the greenway. As they 
are right now, cars often do not stop or yield at crossings, 
and existing rumble strips don't help much/if at all with 
encouraging traffic to stop for crossing pedestrians. IE, I 
believe it could help if raised crossings, bump/bulb outs, 
refuge islands, and other physical features were installed 
that obviously indicate a crossing (there are some examples 
of all three features that already installed at a few locations in 
and around Cheyenne). In the case of busy intersections with 
cars and stoplights, bicycle-dedicated signals and leading 
pedestrian intervals could help significantly (including 
intersection of Dell Range/Yellowstone for instance). I've 
shared other ideas throughout this survey in the "other" 
responses. Besides that, continue working toward better 
tunnels where they won't flood so easily/be unusable for 
weeks/months at a time; so far liking what the US-30/Polk 
tunnel looks like and can't wait to use it!
"Build facilities for our youth  
More hockey. More gymnasium/field house more swimming 
more outdoor courts etc"
Maybe signs along greenway stating rules.  Bikers don't 
always announce they're passing you, motorcycles and go 
carts are often zooming on greenway, dogs are often off 
leash.  End of bitch list
"Get the airport board to fix the sidewalk along airport 
parkway and replant trees.  
Better hours at botanic gardens.  
No more splash pads in areas with high numbers of 
transients. 
Widen the roads at lions park (north end), seems they were 
designed for compact cars."
Just keeping up with cleanliness and some parks like holiday 
have safety concerns with homeless people
The city needs an indoor rec center - for adults and children 
to exercise and recreate together. The city needs to keep 
facilities centrally located so kids can bike and walk. Most 
parents can’t drive their kids across town for stuff and I fear 
the city is eying expansion of parks only on the east side 
of town whereas historically the parks have been centrally 
located/focused. Getting real bike lanes should be a priority 
too - not these “designated bike roads” to fill oklutbthe 
greenway and making sure people don’t park in the bike 
lanes. Parks should be designed to encourage active lifestyle 
through walking and biking to the park. Putting parks like 
Cahill off the busiest street in town is bizarre to me.
Focus on some year round, indoor facilities. 
There is not enough ice time for our youth hockey teams and 
they need more support 
North park need its trails maintained 
Streamline education funds more effectively and place more 
funds towards the parks, trails, etc.  Absolutely go forward 
with the already established plans for the Belvoir Ranch and 
Big Hole property.
" 
Need another sheet of ice "
Get the homeless drug addicts out of the greenway areas. 
Ship them to Denver.
You lose a significant revenue source when you don’t allow 
year round ice. You could host camps, stick and pucks, 
spring league hockey that would all generate more revenue 
than public skates. We all pay for those things all summer in 
Colorado instead. 
Indoor facility is important. We have lots of outdoor areas 
and bad weather. We need a recreational center.
I would love to see more hockey ice in Cheyenne, my family 
spends thousands in Colorado every summer and early fall 
as the ice we put in gets pushed farther and farther back 
every year. We even drive up to Casper for year round ice 
almost weekly.
The city needs to work with school district to utilize all the 
facilities paid for by taxpayers to benefit sports programs for 
youth, adults, and seniors.
No
I am very disappointed in the amount of pools that are 
available in Cheyenne. I don’t feel like my daughter has the 
opportunity to learn how to swim while living here. 
The pool needs to be updated.  Need more open swim times. 
Ice year round would better than an empty facility.
Invest in the youth then they will have less time for anything 
bad
Keep them safe and well lit.  Emergency phones along the 
way 
We are desperate for more indoor options since the weather 
prevents most from going out and enjoying time 2/3 of the 
year!
More restrooms 
Need to add more flowering trees in Sun Valley Park. Lilacs 
are easy to maintain and do well in Wyoming weather. Please 
add some flowers in Sun Valley Park. 
We need a place for year round ice and year round skating
There are limited activities for kids in Cheyenne.   There is 
an increased interest in ice skating.   We should provide this 
opportunity year so kids can develop their skills throughout 
the year.  We already have a roller skating rink that the city 
should not be competing against.  I know this has been 
brought to city council and the mayor on multiple occasions.   
Let's keep our money and our kids in Cheyenne instead of 
traveling to other communities 
It would be great if you advertised through the schools about 
the upcoming rec leagues and activities. That is a captive 
audience that could easily send fliers home! 
We should mirror other places that have larger indoor rec 
facilities, such as Casper. For being the capital we are lacking 
when compared to other communities. We put wayyyy to 
much into CFD and a lot of us are no longer interested in the 
crowds and cost of cfd and want other options, but it appears 
that is the only thing that is significantly supported year 
after year. With the wind we need indoor activities that are 
big enough to accommodate the community. An full indoor 
water park would be amazing! 
Cheyenne is very behind in developing public indoor 
facilities to play soccer, lacrosse, batting practice, pickleball, 
basketball, etc. Other cities that have amazing indoor 
recreation spaces for youth and adults. Our youth are at a 
disadvantage because they cannot continue building warm 
weather sports skills in cooler months due to lack of facilities 
in Cheyenne. 
Monitor more closely for homeless people in tunnels areas. 
Clean out urine smell.
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  4039  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
 make the Greenway better connected through the heart of 
the city.  Stop expanding until you can connect the interior.  
It's frustrating that we can't use it because it's unsafe to 
connect to it.  Also,  provide options for kids that are not 
sports.  Allow the community options to reserve space in 
smaller parks for a fee.
Replace neighborhood facility that was located on South 
Cheyenne with a new neighborhood facility in South 
Cheyenne.
I would love to see dirt trails. It's great for runners to be 
running on soft even surfaces. Even if it was just a mile dirt 
loop around lions parks that would be super beneficial to all 
runners. 
More activities for youth!!
It feels like we are massively underutilizing the facilities 
we have. Adding additional facilities and properties should 
probably be delayed until we see how effective the existing 
facilities can be with effective management. Using these 
facilities in an appropriate way would even provide more 
funds for later development.
"Dotted lines on the greenway and signs to dictate what side 
of the trail people need to be on, especially with little kids 
and bikers on the same trail.  
 
Need an indoor track/recreation facility, it would get so much 
use by everyone in the city. "
Open up the Botanic Gardens Conservatory on Sundays like 
it used to be. This screams that the public are not important 
to the City leaders and employees.
We are in desperate need of an indoor recreational facility 
to support all of our youth and adult programs, preferably 
one that includes a competitive level indoor track to host 
indoor track meets, bringing money into our community and 
supporting the 200 local participants in high school indoor 
track. We are the only large community in Wyoming without 
one. The Campbell County rec center is the perfect example 
of a rec center that is utilized by all ages and programs! 
Thank you for this whole survey! 
There needs to be more recreational facilities to promote 
youth sports and exercise. 
Please consider year round ice at the Ice and Event Center; 
as well as a second sheet. The hockey program has grown 
immensely.  Many users of the ice all winter spend hundreds 
or thousands of dollars elsewhere in WY or in CO that 
Cheyenne could be receiving. I am sure the hockey board 
would be willing to discuss the reason this would be a great 
option for the City of Cheyenne to invest in as well as the 
profit the City makes during hockey compared to when there 
is no ice. 
Another sheet of ice for youth hockey would be a huge 
benefit and a indoor recreation facility with basketball, 
pickleball and other activities 
We must consider additional indoor recreation facilities for 
hockey this sport had tripled in kids in the the last 5 years. 
Usually the places like pool and ice center are poorly ran. The 
sports teams are forces to have game very late or extremely 
early because "this is for ice skating not hockey" is what the 
main manager Jeff tells us. Swimming pool is mediocre at 
best. Take a look at Gillette or rock springs! 
The south side lacks a larger park, compared to those north 
of the tracks. As usual the city of Cheyenne thinks people 
south of Tracks don't deserve these things. We tend to get 
the scraps and what's left over that nobody else wants.
Facilities staff should help support youth sports even if not 
city programs as we contribute to the financial aspect of 
facilities. The city staff should work hand in hand with private 
clubs to better support children in sports
More ice related places. More hills kids can sled down……..
summer is nice. But winter is here more.
Shouldn't have to leave Cheyenne for year round ice, I have 
to visit family 6 hours away to use the ice.
Bring back sloan lake for swimming it is needed for people to 
enjoy time with family and friends. It was always something 
we could do and didn't cost money to do it.
I’m not sure if this is the appropriate place to comment on 
this, however, I’m not sure I will have the chance to say this. 
This comment is for the Cheyenne ice and events center. WE 
NEED TO KEEP THE ICE ON YEAR ROUND!!!!  We are the 
capital city, so let’s act like it and be a good example to the 
rest of the state. Casper has year round ice and has a great 
development program for their youth to succeed. Also, they 
are planning to construct another sheet of ice. Laramie is 
planning to construct another sheet of ice. Ft. Collins has 2 
sheets of ice and keeps the ice year round!! Windsor has ice 
year round and a great development program for their youth. 
Greeley has ice year round!! When I bring this up to the 
manager at our ice rink, he balks and says it can’t be done. I 
think that is a load of crap and a lazy poor excuse. We have 
families traveling to other cities to use their ice facilities due 
to the lack of opportunities in this city. This is embarrassing!!! 
An example of terrible management is during Thanksgiving 
break. He had open free skate for EIGHT HOURS on Monday, 
Tuesday, and Wednesday! There was not one stick and puck 
or drop in hockey for the youth during that time!! He pulled 
the ice out during spring break….. he could have had a bunch 
of drop ins or stick and puck sessions. I am beginning to 
think he hates kids. Please fire the manager of the rink or 
figure out a way to do better!!  He is doing a terrible job!!!
Make sure shaded seating facilities are near playgrounds 
(pavilions, benches next to trees, etc.)
We need a year round ice skating rink!!!
Can we please have another sheet of ice inside an indoor rec 
center!? 
Stop expanding the Greenway and use those funds 
elsewhere. It is a waste of money!
I really love the greenway! However, please fix the 
Yellowstone underpass to prevent constant flooding messes 
every summer. An outdoor track would also be widely used 
in the community as there are still a lack of safe, traffic-free 
place to run. 
Better marketing and ease to find programs
Mylar Park is in need of updated equipment 
I think our greenway system is great.  I use it all the time to 
get around town on my bike and for exercise.  There are still 
some areas that we need to get connected to the rest of the 
system.  Downtown in particular should be more connected 
to the rest of our bike infrastructure.  Yes there are bike lanes 
and routes, but Cheyenne drivers do not seem to be aware 
of cyclists or be concerned for their safety.  We may need 
to give up some car ROW and re-dedicate it to alternate 
transportation methods.  I know many residents who do not 
use bikes for transportation because they do not feel safe on 
the roads.  Non-motorized corridors would be an amazing 
addition.
It would be great to have a safe trail system for pedestrians 
and cyclists that connects all the parks without having to be 
concerned about cars.
Adequate swimming options that are free for the public. So 
many kids can't afford to go frequently during the summer. 
Which is becoming more important given our hotter 
summers. 
Cheyenne has a very small window of really good summer 
and fall weather. The use of indoor facilities it’s extremely 
important for all members of the community for both 
physical and mental health. Youth travel softball, baseball 
and soccer programs tend to ramp up in February and March 
and teams don’t have a place for indoor or outdoor practices 
let alone early spring games. Full artificial grass/turf indoor 
and outdoor complexes would be a great investment into the 
community. It would also promote games and tournaments, 
especially indoor, which will create economic impact 
investment and funding to the community. 
Spaces that are not dog friendly. No dogs allowed.
City parks and rec team do a great job with what they have 
n/a
It would be wonderful to have more amenities and recreation 
options for youth in our community.
Thank you for the work you do to support Cheyenne’s parks 
and recreation areas !!
Cut down on the signage. People have google maps and 
apple maps. A sign every 30' seems excessive. Everyone 
talks about getting one with nature and we have a sign telling 
us there is a "Y" in the road up ahead. I think people are 
smart enough to not get lost on a one way trail.
The airport parkway trail not ran by the city is a great length 
of sidewalk/ trail in a neighborhood that is frequently used by 
those neighbors. However I believe the airport does not take 
as good care of this area as city owned properties are (they 
removed trash cans from area, rarely plow the sidewalk in 
timely manner and do not take care of it as city employees do 
their areas) would love to see the city try and aquifer this area 
as they could provide an ample amount of care to the area 
that is very frequented by it neighbors in the area
"I love the idea of new trails in the community.  
 
By and large, I think the Parks are Rec Division does a terrific 
job with both amenities and opportunities.  
 
I appreciate the new lights at the CJL fields. As someone 
who attends a lot of travel baseball in other communities I'm 
saddened to say our baseball facilities rank far, far below any 
others we see in the region. The lights were a nice touch. 
The scoreboards seemed like a poor choice simply because 
most teams use cloud-based scoring. The fields themselves 
need a re-design. I would love to see some time put into the 
baseball field at Lions Park. It has such potential and great 
character. "
I just want more!!!!  Again, I think Jason and his team are 
amazing and nothing in here should be construed otherwise.  
The city's websites, for general information and recreation 
information are horrendous.  Information is very difficult 
to find and often outdated/inaccurate.  Numerous clicks 
and web page loads are required to find the smallest bit of 
information.  These sites appear to be designed by social 
media or marketing experts like OpenCities.  The goal of 
social media and marketing is to trap a potential user/
consumer on the web page and prevent them from leaving.  
The City should purpose their website to disseminate as 
much accurate information as possible in the shortest 
amount of time.  Instead of spending millions outsourcing 
your web page development, spend that money hiring local 
or recently graduated/intern web developers from LCCC/UW 
etc. or even temp workers to just keep data and information 
accurate.
We shouldn't have turned away open space in Saddle Ridge. 
We talk the talk, but fail to walk the walk.
You do an outstanding job, but there is an increasing need/
desire for more outdoor recreation opportunities throughout 
the year.
Lions Park is a designated "Important Bird Area" by the 
national Audubon Society.  Shrubs (willows, undergrowth) 
are an important environment for many bird species.  Both 
at Lions Park and at Dry Creek I've seen shrubs cut to the 
ground.  The city needs to partner with local wildlife groups 
so that their staff can learn more about what bird species 
need in an environment.  I also LOVE the fact that the grass 
is not mowed constantly at Dry Creek.  It looks beautiful.  
Overall, I'm very happy with our parks and natural spaces.  
Thank you.  
No  comments
Cheyenne is great!
Appendix B.1  |  OPEN-ENDED SURVEY RESPONSES
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  4241  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS 1
Cheyenne Survey Summary - Raw Results
Q1 - How often do you visit Cheyenne's parks or recreation facilities?
659 Responses
Percentage
Daily
Several days a week
Once a week
Several times a month
Once a month
A few times a year
Never
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% 40%
16%
40%
12%
15%
5%
10%
1%
Q1 - How often do you visit Cheyenne's parks or recreation facilities?
659 Responses
Field Choice Count
Daily  10416%
Several days a week  26540%
Once a week  7812%
Several times a month  10215%
Once a month  335%
A few times a year  6910%
Never  81%
Total 659
2
Q2 - Which of Cheyenne’s parks, trails, and recreation facilities do you 
frequent most often? Select top five
494 Responses
Choice Count (1) Choice Count (2) Choice Count (3) Choice Count (4) Choice Count (5)
Lions Park
Ice & Events Center
Holliday Park
Cahill Park
North Cheyenne Community Park
David R. Romero South Cheyenne ...
Pointe Park
Dry Creek Parkway
Depot Plaza
Converse Softball Complex
Mylar Park
Jaycee Park
Western Hills Park
Sun Valley Park
Dutcher Field
Saddle Ridge Park
Junior League Complex
Kiwanis Park
Pioneer Park
Brimmer Park
Sun Valley Open Space
Lake Absarraca Recreation Area
Cahill Park Open Space Area
Powers Field
United Nations Park
Smalley Park
Moore Park
Leo Pando Park
Bar X Park
Optimist Park
Martin Luther King Jr. Park
Lincoln Park
Highlands Park
Centennial Park
VFW Pride Park
Windmill/Cactus Park
Abbott Park
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350
Q2 - Which of Cheyenne’s park, trails, and recreation facilities do you 
frequent...
494 Responses
Field Choice
Count (1)
Choice
Count (2)
Choice
Count (3)
Choice
Count (4)
Choice
Count (5) Total
Cahill Park  3925%  4025%  4025%  2315%  1610% 158
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  4443  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
3
David R. Romero South Cheyenne
Community Park  2129%  1419%  1115%  1926%  710% 72
Holliday Park  5426%  6832%  3316%  3617%  199% 210
Lions Park  17949%  10228%  4813%  247%  144% 367
North Cheyenne Community Park  3427%  3427%  2621%  2218%  86% 124
Highlands Park  117%  233%  233%  117%  00% 6
Jaycee Park  715%  1429%  1633%  48%  715% 48
Lincoln Park  114%  00%  229%  114%  343% 7
Martin Luther King Jr. Park  16%  425%  531%  16%  531% 16
Mylar Park  78%  1719%  3236%  1921%  1517% 90
Optimist Park  113%  225%  225%  338%  00% 8
Pointe Park  1327%  816%  714%  1327%  816% 49
Saddle Ridge Park  522%  1252%  29%  14%  313% 23
Smalley Park  218%  218%  218%  327%  218% 11
Sun Valley Park  613%  1329%  1227%  920%  511% 45
United Nations Park  222%  111%  222%  333%  111% 9
Abbott Park  00%  00%  00%  00%  1100% 1
Bar X Park  1100%  00%  00%  00%  00% 1
Depot Plaza  98%  2321%  2624%  2624%  2422% 108
Leo Pando Park  19%  218%  327%  436%  19% 11
Moore Park  1100%  00%  00%  00%  00% 1
Western Hills Park  619%  722%  516%  619%  825% 32
Windmill/Cactus Park  00%  00%  250%  250%  00% 4
Brimmer Park  39%  515%  1235%  926%  515% 34
Converse Softball Complex  817%  1123%  1327%  715%  919% 48
Dutcher Field  522%  313%  1043%  313%  29% 23
Ice & Events Center  5741%  1712%  2317%  2115%  2115% 139
Junior League Complex  49%  1431%  1022%  818%  920% 45
Pioneer Park  39%  928%  928%  825%  39% 32
Powers Field  213%  427%  533%  320%  17% 15
VFW Pride Park  00%  125%  125%  00%  250% 4
Cahill Park Open Space Area  29%  417%  313%  522%  939% 23
Centennial Park  00%  00%  1100%  00%  00% 1
Dry Creek Parkway  1128%  25%  923%  718%  1026% 39
Kiwanis Park  310%  27%  931%  724%  828% 29
Lake Absarraca Recreation Area  26%  618%  927%  927%  721% 33
Sun Valley Open Space  213%  427%  17%  640%  213% 15
4
Q4 - Why do you choose to visit these places?
456 Responses
kidwalking
sports
park play
walk
exercise
hockeyevent
activity
recreation
tennisclose
home
love
space
playground soccer
bike
children
family
nice
dogs
proximity
safe
golf
open
area
house
youth
enjoy
good
location
baseball
beautiful
ice
outdoors
place
trail clean
greenway
path
time
work
outdoor
pickleball
softball
botanical garden
practice
Q5 - What are the most common ways you or someone in your 
household uses Cheyenne’s park and recreation system? (Select all that 
apply) - Selected Choice
511 Responses
Percentage of Choices
Walking, hiking, running on ...
Spending time with family/friends
Enjoying nature, wildlife, etc.
Outdoor play/playgrounds
Fitness
Dog walking
Biking on trails/greenway
Ice and Events Center activities ...
Field sports
Leagues, clubs, or other organized ...
Court sports
Botanic Garden programming
Swimming/aquatics
Picnics, BBQs, and gatherings
Organized activities and special events
Cultural arts
City indoor recreation programs ...
Golf
Disc golf/ frisbee
Natural water-based recreation
Education
Skateboarding, roller skating, or ...
Other (please specify)
Horseshoes
I/We don’t use Cheyenne’s park and ...
0% 1% 2% 3% 4% 5% 6% 7% 8% 9% 10%
10%
9%
9%
6%
6%
6%
5%
5%
5%
5%
4%
4%
4%
4%
4%
3%
3%
2%
2%
2%
1%
1%
1%
0%
0%
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  4645  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
5
Q5 - What are the most common ways you or someone in your 
household uses Cheyenne’s park and recreation system? (Select all that 
apply) - Selected Choice
511 Responses
Field Choice Count
Walking, hiking, running on trails/greenway  31862%
Spending time with family/friends  28957%
Enjoying nature, wildlife, etc.  27353%
Outdoor play/playgrounds  19739%
Fitness  18737%
Dog walking  17434%
Biking on trails/greenway  16332%
Ice and Events Center activities (hockey, ice skating, mini-golf)  16031%
Field sports (baseball, soccer, softball, lacrosse)  15130%
Leagues, clubs, or other organized group activities  14729%
Court sports (basketball, tennis, pickleball, volleyball)  13526%
Botanic Garden programming  13126%
Swimming/aquatics  12925%
Picnics, BBQs, and gatherings  11523%
Organized activities and special events  11422%
Cultural arts (theater, concerts, public art, etc.)  8817%
City indoor recreation programs participation  8617%
Golf  7515%
Disc golf/ frisbee  6012%
Natural water-based recreation (kayaking, fishing, etc.)  479%
Education  296%
Skateboarding, roller skating, or scootering  285%
Other (please specify)  163%
Horseshoes  102%
I/We don’t use Cheyenne’s park and system  61%
Total 511
6
Q7 - What is the maximum distance that you are willing to walk or bike to 
a park, playground, greenway/trail, or recreation facility?
489 Responses
Percentage
Quarter mile
(approx. 5-minute
walk)
Half mile (approx.
10-minute walk)
Three-fourth mile
(approx. 15-
minute walk)
One mile (approx.
20- minute walk)
2 miles or more None / Not
applicable
13%
22%
9%
23% 25%
8%20%
40%
Q7 - What is the maximum distance that you are willing to walk or bike to 
a park, playground, greenway/trail, or recreation facility?
489 Responses
Field Choice Count
Quarter mile (approx. 5-minute walk)  6313%
Half mile (approx. 10-minute walk)  11022%
Three-fourth mile (approx. 15- minute walk)  469%
One mile (approx. 20- minute walk)  11223%
2 miles or more  12125%
None / Not applicable  378%
Total 489
Q8 - What is the maximum distance you are willing to drive to a large 
regional park, community event, community center, or competitive 
recreation sports field or court?
495 Responses
Percentage
5-minute drive 15-minute drive 30-minute drive One hour drive or
more
None / Not applicable
5%
43%
31%
19%
2%20%
40%
60%
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  4847  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
7
Q8 - What is the maximum distance you are willing to drive to a large 
regional park, community event, community center, or competitive 
recreation sports field or court?
495 Responses
Field Choice Count
5-minute drive  245%
15-minute drive  21143%
30-minute drive  15331%
One hour drive or more  9519%
None / Not applicable  122%
Total 495
Q9 - What reasons, if any, that have prevented you or other household 
members from using Cheyenne’s recreation facilities, programs, parks, 
trails, or natural areas? (Select all that apply)
477 Responses
Percentage of Responses
Seasonal weather constraints for
outdoor activity offerings
Facilities are often booked or
overcrowded
Don’t offer the programs or amenities
I/we want
Nothing prevents my/our usage
Security concerns / do not feel safe
Insufficient maintenance or cleanliness
Other (Please Specify)
Unfamiliar with parks, trails, recreation
facilities and open spaces areas and ...
Lack of pet-friendly areas
The hours are not convenient for me
Cost of participation
Other facilities work better for me/my
family
Difficult to access or lacks parking
Too far to travel/lack transportation
Do not feel welcome / lack of belonging
Lack of accessible spaces and/or
amenities for persons with disabilities
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60%
62%
23%
20%
18%
17%
16%
14%
11%
8%
7%
6%
6%
6%
4%
4%
2%
8
Q9 - What reasons, if any, that have prevented you or other household 
members from using Cheyenne’s recreation facilities, programs, parks, 
trails, or natural areas? (Select all that apply)
477 Responses
Field Choice Count
Seasonal weather constraints for outdoor activity offerings  29562%
Facilities are often booked or overcrowded  10923%
Don’t offer the programs or amenities I/we want  9620%
Nothing prevents my/our usage  8718%
Security concerns / do not feel safe  8317%
Insufficient maintenance or cleanliness  7416%
Other (Please Specify)  6914%
Unfamiliar with parks, trails, recreation facilities and open spaces areas and locations  5211%
Lack of pet-friendly areas  368%
The hours are not convenient for me  327%
Cost of participation  316%
Other facilities work better for me/my family  306%
Difficult to access or lacks parking  306%
Too far to travel/lack transportation  214%
Do not feel welcome / lack of belonging  194%
Lack of accessible spaces and/or amenities for persons with disabilities  112%
Total 477
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  5049  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
9
Q10 - Please rate the existing condition of the following types of 
properties maintained by the city.
447 Responses
Don't Know Poor Average Good Excellent
Community parks (i.e. Cahill Park,
Romero Park, Holliday Park, Lions Park
and North Cheyenne Community Park)
Neighborhood parks (i.e. Jaycee Park,
Lincoln Park, MLK Jr. Park, Sun Valley
Park, and others)
Mini Parks (i.e. Abbott Park, Depot
Plaza, Leo Pando Park, and Western
Hills Park)
Open spaces and natural areas (i.e.
Kiwanis Park, Cahill Park open Space,
and Dry Creek Parkway)
Community centers and indoor
recreation (i.e. Ice & Events Center,
Aquatic Center, Kiwanis Community ...
Overall park daily maintenance
(mowing, litter removal, watering, etc.)
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
22%
29%
20%
10%
11%
4%
11%
22%
28%
26%
29%
31%
32%
50%
30%
34%
39%
34%
44%
25%
9%
7%
8%
14%
17%
Q10 - Please rate the existing condition of the following types of 
properties maintained by the city.
447 Responses
Field Min Max Mean Standard
Deviation Variance Responses Sum
Community parks (i.e. Cahill Park, Romero Park, Holliday
Park, Lions Park and North Cheyenne Community Park) 1 5 4 1 1 437 1726
Neighborhood parks (i.e. Jaycee Park, Lincoln Park, MLK
Jr. Park, Sun Valley Park, and others) 1 5 3 1 2 424 1242
Mini Parks (i.e. Abbott Park, Depot Plaza, Leo Pando
Park, and Western Hills Park) 1 5 3 1 2 408 1159
Open spaces and natural areas (i.e. Kiwanis Park, Cahill
Park open Space, and Dry Creek Parkway) 1 5 3 1 2 411 1277
Community centers and indoor recreation (i.e. Ice &
Events Center, Aquatic Center, Kiwanis Community
Center, and others)
1 5 3 1 1 420 1382
Overall park daily maintenance (mowing, litter removal,
watering, etc.) 1 5 4 1 1 412 1514
10
Q12 - For each type of facility, please indicate if there is too much, too 
little or the right amount of the types of programs.
441 Responses
Too Little Neither too much nor too little Too Much
Indoor recreation spaces
Outdoor swimming / spray water play
Restroom facilities
Indoor aquatics
Dog parks
Off-leash dog trails
Outdoor sports courts
Artificial turf fields
Unpaved trails
Other (Please specify)
Environmental education areas and
facilities
Accessory amenities such as benches,
signs, lighting
Natural areas and conserved open
space
Picnic, shade structures, and small
group gathering areas
Community gathering spaces
Display of arts, history, and culture
Improved trailheads
Athletic fields
Bike skills park / BMX
Ice skating and hockey rinks
Large group gathering areas / special
event venues
Gardens/ landscape features
Paved recreation pathways
Skateboard, roller skating, or
scootering features
Playgrounds
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  5251  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
11
Q12 - For each type of facility, please indicate if there is too much, too 
little or the right amount of the types of programs.
441 Responses
Field Min Max Mean Standard
Deviation Variance Responses Sum
Natural areas and conserved open space 1 3 2 1 0 418 690
Gardens/ landscape features 1 3 2 1 0 419 718
Environmental education areas and facilities 1 3 2 1 0 414 677
Playgrounds 1 3 2 0 0 418 764
Athletic fields (soccer, football, softball, baseball, etc.) 1 3 2 1 0 415 718
Outdoor sports courts (tennis, pickleball, basketball,
etc.) 1 3 2 1 0 420 663
Artificial turf fields 1 3 2 1 0 400 650
Indoor aquatics 1 3 2 1 0 412 618
Outdoor swimming / spray water play 1 3 1 1 0 412 596
Indoor recreation spaces 1 3 1 0 0 414 508
Community gathering spaces 1 3 2 1 0 403 660
Ice skating and hockey rinks 1 3 2 1 0 410 698
Skateboard, roller skating, or scootering features 1 3 2 0 0 398 700
Bike skills park / BMX 1 3 2 1 0 395 669
Dog parks 1 3 2 1 0 400 620
Off-leash dog trails 1 3 2 1 0 395 625
Paved recreation pathways 1 3 2 1 0 404 721
Unpaved trails 1 3 2 1 0 393 632
Improved trailheads 1 3 2 1 0 386 634
Restroom facilities (includes indoor w/ plumbing and
portable facilities) 1 3 1 1 0 413 597
Picnic, shade structures, and small group gathering
areas 1 3 2 1 0 410 674
Large group gathering areas / special event venues
(event plaza, pavilion, lawn, amphitheater) 1 3 2 1 0 405 684
Display of arts, history, and culture 1 3 2 1 0 402 663
Accessory amenities such as benches, signs, lighting,
etc. 1 3 2 1 0 410 671
Other (Please specify) 1 3 2 1 0 68 111
12
Q13 - For each type of facility, please indicate if there is too much, too 
little, or the right amount to serve the community.
418 Responses
Too Little Neither too much nor too little Too Much
Outdoor education, nature exploration,
and outdoor recreation skills building
Teen (age 13 to 19) recreation and
sports programs
Programs for people with low
household income
Programs for people with special needs
Opportunities to volunteer to support
the parks system
Older adult (age 65 and over)
recreation and sports programs
Youth (age 12 and under) recreation
and sports programs
Adult recreation and sports programs
Cultural events and arts programs
Other (Please specify)
57%
53%
51%
47%
43%
42%
41%
40%
38%
22%
42%
46%
47%
53%
56%
53%
58%
57%
60%
78%
4%
Q13 - For each type of facility, please indicate if there is too much, too 
little, or the right amount to serve the community.
418 Responses
Field Min Max Mean Standard
Deviation Variance Responses Sum
Youth (age 12 and under) recreation and sports
programs 1 3 2 1 0 388 621
Teen (age 13 to 19) recreation and sports programs 1 3 1 1 0 381 563
Adult recreation and sports programs 1 3 2 1 0 392 641
Older adult (age 65 and over) recreation and sports
programs 1 3 2 1 0 379 615
Programs for people with special needs (support all
abilities and developmental needs) 1 3 2 1 0 351 539
Programs for people with low household income 1 3 2 1 0 364 550
Cultural events and arts programs 1 3 2 1 0 368 602
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  5453  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
13
Outdoor education, nature exploration, and outdoor
recreation skills building 1 3 1 1 0 373 537
Opportunities to volunteer to support the parks system 1 3 2 1 0 360 571
Other (Please specify) 1 2 2 0 0 89 158
Q14 - Communities provide parks, recreational amenities, trails, and 
open spaces for a variety of reasons. Please rate how important you 
think each of these purposes is for Cheyenne.
421 Responses
Not at all important Slightly important Moderately important Very important Extremely important
Provide places for all to play
Protect natural environments, water
resources, and wildlife, and provide ...
Provide places and programs for
people to maintain and improve their ...
Opportunities to spend time outdoors
and connect with nature
Enhance economic vitality by making
Cheyenne more attractive to live, ...
Provide spaces and programs for
sports team play and skill development
Provide trails and pathways for
improved exercise and connectivity
Contribute to a more beautiful
community
Recreation and programs for lower
income community members
Attract visitors and/or promote tourism
Provide trails for alternative
transportation
Provide places, programs, and
community events for people to ...
Promote appreciation and preservation
of culture and heritage
Are there any other purposes you think
are important? (please specify)
7%
10%
4%
6%
6%
7%
8%
8%
5%
10%
9%
16%
12%
16%
15%
18%
18%
15%
21%
24%
25%
23%
29%
12%
39%
33%
39%
36%
33%
34%
37%
42%
33%
29%
33%
40%
36%
20%
49%
46%
46%
45%
45%
41%
40%
38%
36%
33%
32%
31%
21%
56%
14
Q14 - Communities provide parks, recreational amenities, trails, and 
open spaces for a variety of reasons. Please rate how important you 
think each of these purposes is for Cheyenne.
421 Responses
Field Not at all
important
Slightly
important
Moderately
important
Very
important
Extremely
important
Contribute to a more beautiful community  22%  166%  636%  1749%  1587%
Enhance economic vitality by making Cheyenne
more attractive to live, work, and do business  66%  238%  626%  1397%  1859%
Provide places and programs for people to
maintain and improve their health and fitness  22%  135%  485%  1628%  1909%
Provide places for all to play  00%  93%  384%  1638%  20410%
Provide places, programs, and community
events for people to socialize and experience
arts and culture
 77%  207%  959%  1648%  1286%
Opportunities to spend time outdoors and
connect with nature  22%  93%  667%  1498%  1879%
Recreation and programs for lower income
community members  1212%  3011%  858%  1367%  1467%
Provide spaces and programs for sports team
play and skill development  33%  259%  757%  1427%  1698%
Promote appreciation and preservation of
culture and heritage  1313%  4115%  12112%  1488%  884%
Attract visitors and/or promote tourism  2827%  3312%  10010%  1186%  1356%
Provide trails and pathways for improved
exercise and connectivity  66%  145%  737%  1548%  1668%
Protect natural environments, water resources,
and wildlife, and provide environmental resiliency  44%  176%  656%  1367%  1909%
Provide trails for alternative transportation  1111%  3111%  10410%  1347%  1306%
Are there any other purposes you think are
important? (please specify)  66%  10%  71%  121%  332%
Total 102 282 1002 1931 2109
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  5655  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
15
Q15 - How important do you think it is for Cheyenne to invest in the 
following in the next ten years in response to community growth?
413 Responses
Not at all important Slightly important Moderately important Very important Extremely important
Increase resources devoted to
maintenance
Increase resources for recreation
programs, events, and activities
Complete undeveloped parks
Renovate and upgrade existing parks,
recreation facilities, and natural areas
Build significant additional indoor
recreation/community center facilities
Add or replace significant outdoor
amenities such as outdoor pool,
amphitheater/pavilion, sports ...
Expand the park system by acquiring
property for future parks, facilities, open
space, or trails
Increase amount of larger destination
parks
Increase amount of smaller
neighborhood parks
Other (please specify)
7%
7%
5%
9%
13%
13%
11%
8%
8%
18%
10%
5%
16%
18%
20%
24%
30%
24%
33%
35%
13%
30%
22%
31%
28%
9%
38%
37%
26%
30%
18%
24%
26%
20%
22%
17%
23%
29%
17%
22%
57%
26%
25%
16%
13%
61%
Q15 - With a limited budget, and significant community desires, difficult 
decisio...
413 Responses
Field Min Max Mean Standard
Deviation Variance Responses Sum
Increase resources devoted to maintenance 1 5 4 1 1 401 1506
Increase resources for recreation programs, events, and
activities 1 5 4 1 1 408 1562
16
Complete undeveloped parks 1 5 3 1 1 402 1314
Renovate and upgrade existing parks, recreation
facilities, and natural areas 1 5 4 1 1 406 1444
Build significant additional indoor recreation/community
center facilities 1 5 4 1 2 410 1692
Add or replace significant outdoor amenities such as
outdoor pool, amphitheater/pavilion, sports fields/courts,
etc.
1 5 3 1 1 405 1414
Expand the park system by acquiring property for future
parks, facilities, open space, or trails 1 5 3 1 2 405 1381
Increase amount of larger destination parks 1 5 3 1 2 398 1216
Increase amount of smaller neighborhood parks 1 5 3 1 1 397 1186
Other (please specify) 1 5 4 1 2 46 191
Q16 - How likely would you be willing to support additional funding and 
spending for parks and recreation improvements in the future?
411 Responses
Percentage
Extremely likely
Somewhat likely
Somewhat unlikely
Extremely unlikely
Unsure at this time
57%
25%
2%
2%
13%
Q16 - How likely would you be willing to support additional funding and 
spending for parks and recreation improvements in the future?
411 Responses
Field Choice Count
Extremely likely  23457%
Somewhat likely  10225%
Unsure at this time  5513%
Somewhat unlikely  102%
Extremely unlikely  102%
Total 411
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  5857  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
17
Q17 - How do you find out information about the City’s recreation 
facilities, events, programs, parks, trails, or natural areas? (Select all 
that apply)
414 Responses
Percentage of Choices
City website
Cheyenne Recreation website
Social media
Friends/word of mouth
City e-newsletter
Other online maps
None
Other (please specify)
16%
17%
28%
28%
2%
4%
1%
4%
Q17 - How do you find out information about the City’s recreation 
facilities, events, programs, parks, trails, or natural areas? (Select all 
that apply)
414 Responses
Field Choice Count
City website  13416%
Cheyenne Recreation website  14317%
Social media  24328%
Friends/word of mouth  23928%
City e-newsletter  212%
Other online maps  334%
None  121%
Other (please specify)  344%
Total 859
18
Demographic Questions
Q19 - Where do you live?
434 Responses
Percentage
City of Cheyenne
Laramie County
Prefer not to answer
73%
24%
3%
Q19 - Where do you live?
434 Responses
Field Choice Count
City of Cheyenne  31873%
Laramie County  10524%
Prefer not to answer  113%
Total 434
Q20 - How long have you lived in the City of Cheyene?
312 Responses
Percentage
Less than 1 year
1 to 4 years
5 to 9 years
10 to 14 years
15 to 19 years
More than 20 years
1%
12%
19%
13%
7%
47%
Q20 - How long have you lived in the City of Cheyene
312 Responses
Field Choice Count
Less than 1 year  41%
1 to 4 years  3812%
5 to 9 years  5919%
10 to 14 years  4113%
15 to 19 years  227%
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  6059  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
19
More than 20 years  14847%
Total 312
Q21 - What is your zip code? - City of Cheyene
305 Responses
Percentage
82001
82005
82007
82009
Other
50%
0%
9%
41%
0%
Q21 - What is your zip code? - Selected Choice
305 Responses
Field Choice Count
82001  15250%
82005  00%
82007  269%
82009  12641%
Other  10%
Total 305
Q22 - Do any of the following live in your household? - City of Cheyene
303 Responses
Percentage of Choices
Children (ages 12 and under)
Teenagers (ages 13 to 19)
Adults (ages 20 to 54)
Adults (ages 55 or older)
Dogs
20%
16%
29%
13%
22%
Q22 - Do any of the following live in your household? (Select all that 
apply)
303 Responses
Field Choice Count
Children (ages 12 and under)  13220%
20
Teenagers (ages 13 to 19)  10716%
Adults (ages 20 to 54)  19429%
Adults (ages 55 or older)  8913%
Dogs  15122%
Total 673
Q23 - Which best describes your age? - City of Cheyene
306 Responses
Percentage
Under 18
18-24
25-34
35-44
45-54
55-64
65-74
75 and older
0%
3%
13%
38%
21%
12%
10%
3%
Q23 - Which best describes your age?
306 Responses
Field Choice Count
Under 18  10%
18-24  83%
25-34  4013%
35-44  11538%
45-54  6421%
55-64  3812%
65-74  3210%
75 and older  83%
Total 306
Q24 - Please describe your annual household income - City of Cheyene
304 Responses
Percentage
Less than $25,000
$25,000 to $49,999
$50,000 to $74,999
$75,000 to $99,999
$100,000 to $124,999
More than $125,000
Prefer not to say
2%
7%
17%
19%
15%
28%
11%
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  6261  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
21
Q25 - Which race or ethnicity do you most identify with? Please check all 
that apply. - City of Cheyene
304 Responses
Percentage of Choices
American Indian or Alaskan native
Asian or Pacific Islander
Black or African American
Hispanic/Latino/Spanish
White/Caucasian
Other (please specify)
Prefer not to say
2%
1%
2%
7%
75%
3%
8%
Q25 - Which race or ethnicity do you most identify with? Please check all 
that apply. - Selected Choice
304 Responses
Field Percentage of Choices
American Indian or Alaskan native 2%
Asian or Pacific Islander 1%
Black or African American 2%
Hispanic/Latino/Spanish 7%
White/Caucasian 75%
Other (please specify) 3%
Prefer not to say 8%
Q24 - Please describe your annual household income
304 Responses
Field Choice Count
Less than $25,000  72%
$25,000 to $49,999  227%
$50,000 to $74,999  5217%
$75,000 to $99,999  5819%
$100,000 to $124,999  4715%
More than $125,000  8428%
Prefer not to say  3411%
Total 304
22
Q20 - How long have you lived in Laramie County
100 Responses
Percentage
Less than 1 year
1 to 4 years
5 to 9 years
10 to 14 years
15 to 19 years
More than 20 years
1%
8%
12%
13%
12%
54%
Q20 - How long have you lived in Laramie County
100 Responses
Field Choice Count
Less than 1 year  11%
1 to 4 years  88%
5 to 9 years  1212%
10 to 14 years  1313%
15 to 19 years  1212%
More than 20 years  5454%
Total 100
Q21 - What is your zip code? - Laramie County
96 Responses
Percentage
82001
82005
82007
82009
Other
1%
0%
16%
75%
8%
Q21 - What is your zip code? - Selected Choice
96 Responses
Field Choice Count
82001  11%
82005  00%
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  6463  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
23
82007  1516%
82009  7275%
Other  88%
Total 96
Q22 - Do any of the following live in your household? - Laramie County
97 Responses
Percentage of Choices
Children (ages 12 and under)
Teenagers (ages 13 to 19)
Adults (ages 20 to 54)
Adults (ages 55 or older)
Dogs
19%
17%
26%
13%
25%
Q22 - Do any of the following live in your household? (Select all that 
apply)
97 Responses
Field Choice Count
Children (ages 12 and under)  4919%
Teenagers (ages 13 to 19)  4317%
Adults (ages 20 to 54)  6726%
Adults (ages 55 or older)  3213%
Dogs  6425%
Total 255
Q23 - Which best describes your age? - Laramie County
96 Responses
Percentage
Under 18
18-24
25-34
35-44
45-54
55-64
65-74
75 and older
0%
1%
9%
39%
28%
11%
10%
1%
24
Q23 - Which best describes your age?
96 Responses
Field Choice Count
Under 18  00%
18-24  11%
25-34  99%
35-44  3739%
45-54  2728%
55-64  1111%
65-74  1010%
75 and older  11%
Total 96
Q24 - Please describe your annual household income - Laramie County
96 Responses
Percentage
Less than $25,000
$25,000 to $49,999
$50,000 to $74,999
$75,000 to $99,999
$100,000 to $124,999
More than $125,000
Prefer not to say
3%
2%
7%
5%
20%
50%
13%
Q24 - Please describe your annual household income
96 Responses
Field Choice Count
Less than $25,000  33%
$25,000 to $49,999  22%
$50,000 to $74,999  77%
$75,000 to $99,999  55%
$100,000 to $124,999  1920%
More than $125,000  4850%
Prefer not to say  1213%
Total 96
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  6665  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
25
Q25 - Which race or ethnicity do you most identify with? Please check all 
that apply. - Laramie County
96 Responses
Percentage of Choices
American Indian or Alaskan native
Asian or Pacific Islander
Black or African American
Hispanic/Latino/Spanish
White/Caucasian
Other (please specify)
Prefer not to say
1%
4%
1%
3%
80%
2%
10%
Q25 - Which race or ethnicity do you most identify with? Please check all 
that apply. - Selected Choice
96 Responses
Field Choice Count
American Indian or Alaskan native  11%
Asian or Pacific Islander  44%
Black or African American  11%
Hispanic/Latino/Spanish  33%
White/Caucasian  8280%
Other (please specify)  22%
Prefer not to say  1010%
Total 103
Q20 - Do any of the following live in your household? - Prefer not to 
answer
8 Responses
Percentage of Choices
Children (ages 12 and under)
Teenagers (ages 13 to 19)
Adults (ages 20 to 54)
Adults (ages 55 or older)
Dogs
27%
27%
20%
13%
13%
26
Q20 - Do any of the following live in your household? (Select all that 
apply)
8 Responses
Field Choice Count
Children (ages 12 and under)  427%
Teenagers (ages 13 to 19)  427%
Adults (ages 20 to 54)  320%
Adults (ages 55 or older)  213%
Dogs  213%
Total 15
Q21 - Which best describes your age? - Prefer not to answer
9 Responses
Percentage
Under 18
18-24
25-34
35-44
45-54
55-64
65-74
75 and older
0%
0%
33%
33%
0%
11%
22%
0%
Q21 - Which best describes your age?
9 Responses
Field Choice Count
Under 18  00%
18-24  00%
25-34  333%
35-44  333%
45-54  00%
55-64  111%
65-74  222%
75 and older  00%
Total 9
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  6867  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
27
Q22 - Please describe your annual household income - Prefer not to 
answer
9 Responses
Percentage
Less than $25,000
$25,000 to $49,999
$50,000 to $74,999
$75,000 to $99,999
$100,000 to $124,999
More than $125,000
Prefer not to say
0%
0%
33%
11%
22%
11%
22%
Q22 - Please describe your annual household income
9 Responses
Field Choice Count
Less than $25,000  00%
$25,000 to $49,999  00%
$50,000 to $74,999  333%
$75,000 to $99,999  111%
$100,000 to $124,999  222%
More than $125,000  111%
Prefer not to say  222%
Total 9
Q23 - Which race or ethnicity do you most identify with? Please check all 
that apply. - Prefer not to answer
9 Responses
Percentage of Choices
American Indian or Alaskan native
Asian or Pacific Islander
Black or African American
Hispanic/Latino/Spanish
White/Caucasian
Other (please specify)
Prefer not to say
11%
0%
0%
11%
67%
0%
11%
28
Q23 - Which race or ethnicity do you most identify with? Please check all 
that apply. - Selected Choice
9 Responses
Field Choice Count
American Indian or Alaskan native  111%
Asian or Pacific Islander  00%
Black or African American  00%
Hispanic/Latino/Spanish  111%
White/Caucasian  667%
Other (please specify)  00%
Prefer not to say  111%
Total 9
Appendix B.1  |  ONLINE SURVEY RAW RESULTS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  7069  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.2  |  FOCUS GROUP SUMMARY
 
MEMO: FOCUS GROUP SUMMARY
To: City of Cheyenne: Jeanie Vetter and Jason Sanchez
From: Design Workshop: Anna Laybourn, Ashley Hejtmanek, Jennifer Pintar
Date: Revised: January 31, 2025
Project Name: Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan
Project #: 7172
Subject: Focus Group Summary
Design Workshop and the City of Cheyenne conducted six focus group sessions from November 13th to November 14th 
to discuss the City’s park system needs. The goals were to initiate the project with insight into diverse interests, gain 
a deeper understanding of concerns, opportunities, values and needs, and gather input about what is working, where 
to make improvements, and potential strategies. Over 50 people participated, including invitees considered subject 
matter experts in their respective fields, key stakeholders on various topics, City of Cheyenne staff, as well as community 
members.
The planning team gave a brief presentation describing the project’s purpose and next steps. This was followed by 
open-ended questions focused on a series of discussion topics to get a better understanding of opportunities and 
challenges in each of the five topic areas:
1. Adult Athletics and Activities
2. City Youth Athletic Programs
3. Community Growth and Tourism
4. Operations and Maintenance
5. Special Populations and Program Providers
6. Greenways and Trails / Open Space and Natural Resources
The key overall takeaways from each focus group session are summarized below. When summarizing feedback, 
participants’ statements are used and are generally not edited.
OVERALL TAKEAWAYS
 » Year-round weather constraints and considerations lend to a strongly heard desire for indoor recreation opportunities.
 » There is high demand at peak times for sport courts, fields, and ice (and partnerships with the school district have 
created financial and burdensome strain with some program providers)
 » Offerings and connections to the south side of the city are limited.
 » There is a conflict between the amount of maintenance cost and energy put into non-functioning manicured park 
space and the public perception of natural landscaping and its ecological values.
 » The greenway is an exceptional asset to the city.
Landscape Architecture
Planning
Urban Design
Strategic Services
Environmental Graphic Design
22860 Two Rivers Road #1
Basalt, Colorado 81621
970.925.8354
designworkshop.com
 » Quality versus quantity of parks and amenities should be considered. Maximize the use of facilities before adding 
more (i.e. add lighting or synthetic turf for extended play). 
 » Park maintenance guidelines and roles – renovation funds are needed beyond daily maintenance funding, don’t build 
what can’t be maintained.
 » Clear policies and standards are needed, particularly as to the types of open spaces the city will accept from 
developers and revisiting rates for impact fees.
 » Placemaking and art throughout parks and the greenway
BIG IDEAS
Focus groups expressed big ideas for Cheyenne’s park and recreation spaces that could be drivers for access and 
programming. Below are examples of concepts that the focus groups shared:
 » Indoor recreation center or sports complex for year-round activity demand. Ideally where families can recreate at the 
same time and place. Multiple clear-span facilities could be dispersed throughout the city to meet demands.
ADULT ATHLETICS AND ACTIVITIES FOCUS GROUP
Monday, November 13, 2023 // 8:30 - 9:30 AM MST // In-Person
There were 19 people invited to the Adult Athletics and Activities Focus Group and six (6) people participated in person. 
The overall takeaways that came from this group discussion included: 
 » Space is the biggest challenge for sports and activities.
 » The City provides services for approximately 69,000 people in Cheyenne and over 100,000 in Laramie County. The 
Master Plan Opportunity boundary (MPO) includes 90,000 people.
 » Growth: Much of the development is in the central areas of Cheyenne because that’s where the population was for a 
long time. The greenway helps with the connection. 
 » Restrooms: The lack of restrooms creates gaps in activities for certain users. Additionally, the restrooms tend to be 
subject to constant vandalization.
 » Laramie County doesn’t provide recreation.
 » Public schools are not exempt from guidelines and fees. There is a formal use agreement with the schools to use 
facilities, including fees for gymnastics and basketball. Just created a MOU.
 » A proposed gymnastics facility is in progress. 
 » Strong winds and the short summer season impact the use of sports activities and field use.
 » There is an overall lack of winter activities.
Besides existing offerings, programming gaps include adult hockey (due to lack of available ice time), and adult tennis, 
youth and female disc golf, and female horseshoes due to either lack of interest or lack of programming. Additionally, 
BMX and Mountain Bike Clubs lack facilities in the city. It was mentioned that the lack of restrooms at disc golf parks 
could explain some of the gaps between youth and females. A few recreation trends include cornhole and dodgeball as 
growing sports.
Partnership suggestions and roles of other agencies to provide recreation for the community included partnering with 
Archer Complex and other clubs and associations. The school district has been a long-standing partner but has become 
cost burdensome. The City has an MOU that still needs to go through to schedule background checks for access but 
does have fee agreements.
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  7271  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Many suggestions and input for City facilities use, quality and needs, and program trends/recreation user group 
interests indicated play time availability and space, weather, and high participant numbers. Below is input for some of the 
individual user groups:
Ice Hockey
 » Maxed out on ice time for adult and youth leagues, and cannot utilize the facility year-round. 
 » There is a huge interest in adult hockey.
 » A second sheet of ice would benefit the hockey program and retain some of the players that go to other communities 
due to demand traveling out of town to participate in other programs or tournaments.
Pickleball
 » Courts are consistently full into the evenings.
 » Conflicts with Volleyball and other scheduling for indoor space.
 » Courts are at the Beast, YMCA, Romero Park.
 » Opportunity for tournaments: Colorado people come up, and Cheyenne people go to Colorado.
 » Tennis Courts with Pickleball lines: JL Ranch Park, United Nations Parks (bring your own net), MLK Park.
Volleyball
 » Timing and availability of gym space are not great for full time workers.
Tennis
 » The Wyoming Governor’s Cup tournament is sponsored in Cheyenne (52 years).
 » High schools are starting to price them out for court use.
 » No public tennis facility/club.
 » Success in youth tennis but is considered a “summer sport” – the climate is hard to support it.
 » Adult numbers could be stronger; there is a gap between high school and 60+.
 » The city’s central area courts get more use than those in the east. 
Disc Golf
 » Courses are often located in the storm drainage system, which yields those areas unusable during heavy water 
events, as well as festers mosquitoes in wet years, and finally are not conducive to restrooms.
 » Youth and females are underrepresented – not having a restroom is a deterrent for female participants.
 » There is a desire to increase access to Disc Golf courses.
 » There are ten public courses, one semi-public course.
 » There is a desire for courses in maintained city parks/urban play areas.
Horseshoes
 » Holiday Park are only the sanctioned pits (not set up for females).
Recreation Division
 » Space is a challenge to hosting programming.
 » Volleyball, basketball, softball, pickleball, cornhole, and dodgeball are offered
 » Ballparks seem to be adequately provided for scheduling
BIG IDEAS
 » For big ideas on Adult Athletics and Activities, most ideas emphasize the need for indoor facilities like a recreation 
center or sports complexes that provide more opportunities, especially during the winter or high demand playing 
times. The group further identified the need for combined-use places where families can recreate at the same 
time and place. For example, parents could drop their children off at a specific activity and do their own activity 
simultaneously.
 » There is some need for the community to partner to help host tournaments across all activities – hotels and 
sponsorship opportunities.
 » The City needs renovation funds. They are funded for daily maintenance, but not the big overhauls required over time.
CITY YOUTH ATHLETIC PROGRAMS FOCUS GROUP
Monday, November 13, 2023 // 10:00 - 1 1:00 AM MST // In-Person
There were 25 people invited to the City Youth Athletic Programs Focus Group and 5 people participated in person. 
Participants in this group were primarily advocates for soccer, baseball, and the Boys and Girls Club.
The overall takeaways that came from this group discussion included the following: 
 » Field availability is an issue.
 » The school district has shut down many after school programs, leaving programming gaps.
 » Overall, fields are in good condition.
 » Maintenance and safety concerns exist at Dutcher Field. Rebuild it, not just renovate.
 » Scheduling availability is hard, especially when accommodating parents’ work schedules and competing with weather 
conditions.
 » Many teams travel to Colorado or other regional counties.
 » Program providers in the community may offer athletic participation that is too costly and travel intensive for all kids 
to be able to participate, and others like the Boys and Girls Club and the City Recreation Division try to fill the gap with 
providing skill building and foundational development that could support kids in high school athletic participation.
Partnership and stakeholder suggestions to involve and for funding sources included: 
 » Boys and Girls Club: Soccer and baseball fields
 » Cheyenne Youth Baseball League (CYBL) offered to help with grants. 
Input on trends and interests include a growing number in youth baseball, youth soccer, and futsal. Other input included 
girls’ softball and volleyball, which are well-served in the community. 
Besides existing offerings, a few recreation trends and programming gaps were noted; there are gaps within the south 
side of town, high school boys don’t have a competitive season to play soccer, and elementary schools are getting rid of 
their soccer programs. Overall, there are not enough indoor sports courts to accommodate the programming needs.
BIG IDEAS
For big ideas on City Youth Athletic Programs, many highlighted the need for indoor play opportunities and year-round 
sports courts, reiterating the need for an indoor recreational facility. Additionally, Archer was brought up as not a 
great option for tournaments or programmed sports. Dutcher Field has the space to accommodate more activities but 
currently has unsafe and rundown conditions.
Appendix B.2  |  FOCUS GROUP SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  7473  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
COMMUNITY GROWTH AND TOURISM FOCUS GROUP
Monday, November 13, 2023 // 2:00 - 3:00 PM MST // In-Person
There were 29 people invited to the Community Growth and Tourism Focus Group and 15 people participated in person. 
The overall takeaways that came from this group discussion included: 
 » Indoor recreation center and more indoor recreation opportunities / more opportunities for winter activities.
 » There needs to be more of a focus on the south side of town.
 » Opportunities for the whole family to recreate in a central place.
 » Rewriting code for developers.
 » There needs to be clear policies on the types of land accepted by developers.
 » Most of the county’s population is within or on the fringe of the city limits. Increase partnership between city and 
county.
 » Shorter-term focus is on completion of Kiwanis Park and Sweetgrass.
 » Developer impact fees are outdated.
Input for development and growth considerations for parks, trails, and open space include bikes and transportation 
connections, outward growth and infill impacts, more signage and wayfinding, and how far people are willing to travel for 
recreation. Many stated that traveling to the Front Range or other counties is normal for recreation or sports activities. 
Additional conversations were about demographic changes and shifts in different age groups, specifically around 
younger generations moving to other places.
Partnerships and funding opportunities included opportunities with larger companies and developers. There are many 
communities outside the city limits yet within the MPO boundary that utilize services. One suggestion is for the city to 
partner with the county to help meet some demands. There was an attempt at the State level for the allowance of special 
districts, but it did not pass. However, that avenue of allowing special districts could help developers and the city. 
Local and visitor recreation and event interests and trends include an indoor sports complex specifically mentioning 
soccer or a recreation center where the whole family can recreate. 
Input surrounding community stewardship mentioned the need for futsal courts in denser areas, increased demand for 
pickleball, and more focus on winter activities.
Conversations around development policies and standards mentioned that there needs to be clear policies on the types 
of land accepted by developers. There is a potential to rewrite code recommendations and transparency for decision-
making. Other mentions were that many rates need to be updated to square foot and be updated yearly.
BIG IDEAS
Big ideas on Community Growth and Tourism input included indoor recreation opportunities like a recreation center 
and more connections. One connection idea is an equestrian trail from Greenway to Archer. Other connection ideas 
include Cheyenne serving as a “gateway city” to the Continental Trail, Rocky Mountain West, and the Colorado Rocky 
Mountains. There were suggestions to have hotels and restaurants next to event centers, combine recreation, and 
partner with Budweiser Event Center. Input also included marketing and signage for the park system and expressed the 
need for an information hub.
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE FOCUS GROUP
Tuesday, November 14, 2023 // 8:00 - 9:00 AM MST // In-Person
There were 18 people invited to the Operations and Maintenance Focus Group and seven (7) people participated in 
person. 
The overall takeaways that came from this group discussion included the following: 
 » There is a conflict between the amount of maintenance cost and energy put into non-functioning manicured park 
space and the public perception of natural landscaping and its ecological values.
 » Education surrounding waterwise practices and water conservation.
 » Clear policies and responsibilities surrounding city properties and maintenance schedules.
 » Quality of parks over quantity.
 » Level of expectations for each type of park regarding maintenance and provisions.
Comments surrounding the conditions and use of park facilities and amenities were positive overall, including the city 
having top-notch facilities. Many comments echoed other focus groups’ statements that the city should maximize what 
exists over building new park facilities and amenities. Other comments suggested maintenance is needed specifically 
related to playgrounds, surfacing, and lighting.
Other conditions and use of park facilities and amenities that were mentioned include:
 » Playgrounds
 » Fields and facilities are overused.
 » Wind and weather play a big part in park conditions.
 » Baseball and softball fields are heavily used.
When discussing sustainable management practices, there was considerable mention surrounding natural systems 
versus domesticated landscaping, especially when natural open spaces and greenway corridors are adjacent to 
residential properties. Overall, the city manages and maintains a large section of manicured lawns. There was a desire to 
have clear policies surrounding when landscaping is appropriate versus areas left natural. Other mentioned approaches 
include community education surrounding waterwise practices and noxious weeds.
Other conversations surrounding sustainable management practices included:
 » A level of expectation that all trails will be concrete.
 » Define nonfunctional medians, detention ponds, and visual greenspaces within the park system and how to maintain 
them.
 » Undeveloped parcels given to the city by developers.
 » Managing requests surrounding landscaping and manicured lawns. 
 » Building out a policy for a city property maintenance schedule.
Conversations around future maintenance challenges and innovations focused on best practices and management 
efforts for maintaining pocket parks, triangle parks, retention ponds, islands, and parking lots. Additionally, homelessness 
in parks and public restrooms was brought up as a challenge, and there are instances of vandalism.
Other conversations around future maintenance challenges and innovations included:
 » The UDC does not require turf grass in a retention pond.
 » A policy allowing unpaved parking lots is needed, as well as who is responsible for the maintenance and replacement 
budgeting of paved parking areas at parks.
 » Winter maintenance responsibilities.
 » Completed a Dry Creek Master Plan.
Appendix B.2  |  FOCUS GROUP SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  7675  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
 » Education on trees and plant growth in harsh environments and irrigation requirements.
 » Dog parks and dogs off leash in non-dog parks. 
Staffing and resource needs were important topics. There were conversations around staffing needs as the park system 
grows. Additionally, new development does not allocate for maintenance.
BIG IDEAS
For big ideas on Operations and Maintenance, there was conversation around the quality of parks over quantity and 
level of service. One big idea was to transition bluegrass to more native grasses and water-wise materials. Another idea 
focuses on the level of expectations for each park type regarding maintenance and provisions.
SPECIAL POPULATIONS AND PROGRAM PROVIDERS FOCUS GROUP
Tuesday, November 14, 2023 // 9:30 - 10:30 AM MST // In-Person
There were 13 people invited to the Special Populations and Program Providers Focus Group and three (3) people 
participated in person. Participants in this group were representatives of the Laramie County Library, the Comea Shelter, 
and the Kids Bike Safety Rodeo.
The overall takeaways that came from this group discussion included the following: 
 » More bike lanes within the city
 » Safe routes to school, including sidewalks and pedestrian pathways.
 » Interactive art and play opportunities include story walks along the path and partnerships with the Laramie County 
Library. 
 » The Laramie County Library is a great resource for kids, but there are more kids than staff. 
 » MLK Park doesn’t feel safe to some due to the history of homeless people congregating there.
In general, the city facilities use, quality, and needs are doing well, have good accessibility, and are affordable. 
Additionally, many of the youth utilize city facilities over private entities. Options like the botanical garden, David Ramero, 
and Kiwanis House are great and affordable. During summer months, more youths and teens use the library than the 
staffing level can provide.
Other input city facilities use, quality, and needs indicate that amenities in parks, like seating and benches, are often 
removed where there tend to be people experiencing homelessness. Additionally, in areas where there is increased 
litter, the trash cans tend to be full. There were conversations on educational opportunities for people experiencing 
homelessness about how to respect the park and best practices surrounding trash.
Conversations around recreation program offerings and participation rates focused on potential partnerships with 
the Bike Rodeo, YMCA, ChangeX grant through Microsoft Corp, and the Laramie County Library, such as story walks 
through the park and coupons for summer reading challenges. Additionally, the Greenway Foundation and Leadership 
Cheyenne were brought up as options for access, wayfinding, and more art opportunities on the greenway. 
When discussing areas not being served, MLK Park was mentioned and how the sports courts and fields are not utilized. 
There were mentions that there are often feelings of uncomfortableness, specifically around homelessness and the 
industrial park surroundings.
BIG IDEAS
For big ideas on Special Populations and Program Providers, input included opportunities for a community center that 
provides multi-use programs for all ages and a recreation center, especially during winter. Other big ideas centered on 
potential growth and building a stronger community. Existing facilities like the botanic gardens are great because they 
are free and provide affordable rentals.
GREENWAYS AND TRAILS / OPEN SPACE AND NATURAL RESOURCES FOCUS GROUP
Tuesday, November 14, 2023 // 12:00 - 1:30 PM MST // In-Person
There were 17 people invited to the Greenways and Trails / Open Space and Natural Resources Focus Group and 17 
people participated in person. 
The overall takeaways that came from this group discussion included the following:
 » Greenway connections and bike pathways
 » Plant maintenance along the greenway
 » Waterwise planting education
 » There is a need for more restrooms, wayfinding, and hydration stations along the greenway.
 » Sidewalk connections on the southern side of town.
 » Murals and art education throughout parks and along the greenway
Discussions around the connectivity of greenways, parks, trails, and natural resources included trail connections 
(equestrian included) to the Archer Event Center, Christianson Road Trailhead, and Leads Trail. Other connection 
suggestions included overlaying sewer projects with the greenway. Some connection concerns were that the railroad 
bridge needs to be wider for bike lanes. There is a proposed greenway connection from MLK Park to Freedom 
Elementary School. 
For environmental and ecological outdoor programming, feedback for a greenway connector to the western hills with 
the Arboretum as an opportunity for trail connections within the MPO boundary.
There were suggestions regarding future land conservation opportunities and open space acquisitions for plants and 
waterwise education, as well as an understanding that Cheyenne is not home to native trees besides riparian areas. The 
management issues regarding public use of natural lands and trails indicated irrigation funding is very expensive, so 
there could be partnerships with the Greenway Foundation.
Access to parks and outdoor amenities was an important topic and indicated the need for more restrooms, wayfinding, 
and hydration stations as the primary focus. Other feedback included connections to North Park and Clear Creak Park 
and sidewalk accessibility on the south side of town. 
Community stewardship and volunteerism suggestions included murals of different birds and wildlife along underpasses 
and opportunities for education. Potential partnerships with LCCC, Boys and Girls Club, Art Cheyenne, and local artists 
could exist to have more art within the parks system. Another suggestion was to partner with large corporations to 
sponsor artwork and minimize vandalism “beautify” options (themed murals)
BIG IDEAS
For big ideas on Greenways and Trails / Open Space and Natural Resources, input included kinetic sculptures or 
insulations for kids, more interactive art opportunities, more restrooms or port-toilets in parking areas, and the greenway 
as a regional draw. Other big ideas are to work with developers as growth happens to help maintain standards for 
greenspaces and shade.
Appendix B.2  |  FOCUS GROUP SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  7877  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.2  |  STEERING COMMITTEE WORKSHOP SUMMARY
 
MEMO: STEERING COMMITTEE WORKSHOP SUMMARY
To: City of Cheyenne: Jeanie Vetter
From: Design Workshop: Anna Laybourn, Ashley Hejtmanek, Jennifer Pintar
Date: December 5, 2023
Project Name: Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan
Project #: 7172
Subject:  Steering Committee Workshop Summary
Design Workshop and the City of Cheyenne conducted a Steering Committee Workshop on November 13th to discuss 
the City’s park system needs. The goals were to initiate the project with insight into diverse interests, gain a deeper 
understanding of the vision, opportunities, values and needs, and gather input about what is working, where to make 
improvements and potential strategies. Eleven (1 1) people participated, including invitees considered subject matter 
experts in their respective fields, key stakeholders on various topics, City of Cheyenne staff, and community members.
The key overall takeaways from the Steering Committee Workshop are summarized below. When summarizing 
feedback, participants’ statements are used and are generally not edited.
STEERING COMMITTEE OVERALL TAKEAWAYS
Monday, November 13, 2023 // 1 1:30 AM – 1:30 PM MST // In-Person
There were 18 people invited to the Steering Committee Workshop and 1 1 people participated in person. 
The overall takeaways that came from this group discussion included:
 » Quality versus quantity of parks and amenities should be considered (continued investment so facilities and amenities 
remain in good condition).
 » There needs to be more consistency between maintenance cost and energy put into manicured park space and 
natural landscaping.
 » Educational opportunities are needed around native species, water conservation, maintenance practices, and tree 
planting.
 » Clear policies and standards are needed around the defining city roles with developers, HOAs, and the County as 
partners.
 » Park maintenance guidelines and roles – renovation funds are needed beyond daily maintenance funding; don’t build 
what can’t be maintained.
 » A sense of community and ownership is a strength to the city. 
One of the city’s big strengths is its inventory and offerings, including the greenway and sports fields. Additionally, the 
community is a strength, indicating that people feel ownership of what their city has and often volunteer to help with the 
greenway’s spring and fall clean-up days.
Landscape Architecture
Planning
Urban Design
Strategic Services
Environmental Graphic Design
22860 Two Rivers Road #1
Basalt, Colorado 81621
970.925.8354
designworkshop.com
Input surrounding weaknesses include not having a recreation center or any large indoor facilities, creating a gap for 
winter sports and programming. Conversations around trends included an increased desire for recreation centers or 
sports complexes that offer climbing walls or obstacle courses. Another trend is the need for more play time availability 
and space, specifically for pickleball, golf, and youth sports.
Also discussed was the 6th penny and tax funding sources. It was expressed that the municipal level depends on the 
state tax structure, making funding difficult to accomplish. 
Amenity and recreation programming gaps include facilities and tracks for BMX and mountain bike clubs and the need 
for more natural areas for mountain biking. Further input suggested that the parks could use unique features or differing 
amenities throughout the system.
Input surrounding barriers include weather conditions, lack of indoor facilities, and better communication with 
advertising offerings and events. Other input suggested that travel time to parks and facilities within the city is often 
challenging, but traveling to other counties or the front range is normalized. 
When asked about priority upgrades and improvements, input included playground equipment and batting cage 
facilities. Specific parks and recreation facilities include updates to Johnson Pool and Dutcher Field. There were 
suggestions to continuously invest so facilities and amenities remain in good condition.
Sustainable management practices expressed the desire for educational opportunities, especially around native 
species, water conservation, and maintenance practices of native dryland areas. Additionally, there are often requests 
to increase trees that are not natural to the area and need irrigation, specifically along the greenway, which does not 
have natural water sources. There was considerable conversation around maintenance standards and best practices for 
natural areas versus landscaping, with the city spending many resources to keep up manicured lawns. Additionally, the 
city gets requests to mow retention ponds and areas that require stability from erosion.
The topic of safety included conversations about the feeling of discomfort and unease in parks where there are people 
experiencing homelessness. Several parks were mentioned, such as Martin Luther King Jr. Park, Holliday Park, Mylar 
Park, and Crow Creek Park, where the fields and facilities are not utilized. Other comments surrounding safety included 
vandalism and off-leash dogs.
The role of the Community Recreation and Events Department included discussions about weed control in the right of 
ways, retention ponds, and asphalt patching and painting. The discussions expressed a strong need for better defined 
roles, maintenance prioritization, and what responsibilities fall to which departments. 
Input for development and growth considerations suggested defining city roles with developers, HOA, and the County. 
Additionally, input suggested a need to update the Unified Development Code (UDC) to help define city roles. There 
were also conversations about a better understanding of the level of service.
Tourism and economic development topics included sports facilities bringing groups in from out of town, specifically in 
the summer, and Cheyenne being a community where people want to live, visit, and do business.
BIG IDEAS
The big ideas from this group discussion focused on the quality of parks and funding options. Input included 
conversations around a recreation center, safety at Dutcher Field, playground improvements, including thematic 
playgrounds, and coverings over equipment. There were also conversations about a Master Plan for the Sweetgrass 
parcel. 
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  8079  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.2  |  FOCUS GROUP ACTIVITY RESULTS

Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  8281  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.2  |  FOCUS GROUP ACTIVITY RESULTS

Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  8483  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.2  |  FOCUS GROUP ACTIVITY RESULTS

Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  8685  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.2  |  FOCUS GROUP ACTIVITY RESULTS
 Appendix B.3  |  COMMUNITY WORKSHOP SUMMARY
 
To: City of Cheyenne   
From: Design Workshop  
Date: June 25, 2024 
Project Name: Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
 
Project #: 7172  
Subject: Community Workshop Summary 
 
INTRODUCTION 
A community workshop was held in Cheyenne on June 3, 2024. Forty-one (41) local and nearby residents 
attended and participated in the workshop. Engagement activities included live polling, mapping opportunity 
areas with stickers, and opportunities to provide comments regarding the future of Cheyenne’s park and 
recreation system.  
 
ATTENDANCE  
Total attendees: 41 
 
 
FEEDBACK: 
The following summarized feedback was provided via written comment card. 
 
Greenway and connections 
• The greenway is a premier asset to Cheyenne! 
• More pet stations on greenway 
• Prioritize additional biking/walking areas 
• Convert Capitol Ave and 24th to pedestrian mall  
• Connect the high plains arboretum and Belvoir Ranch to the greenway w/ off-road trails 
 
Recreation: 
• Indoor Recreation (Pro) 
o Need a “true” rec center  
o Indoor track and soccer field needed. It would allow Cheyenne to host State events, rather 
than always going to Casper 
o Indoor baseball and softball facilities 
• Indoor Recreation (Con) 
o The gymnastics center and BEAST should negate the need for additional indoor recreation 
spaces 
Landscape Architecture 
Planning 
Urban Design 
Strategic Services 
Environmental Graphic Design 
22860 Two Rivers Road, Suite 102 
Basalt, Colorado 81621 
970.925.8354 
designworkshop.com 

Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  8887  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
• City residents should have reduced rates on city amenities 
• Need 2-3 more full-size baseball fields (not enough fields to fit everyone over the summer). (12-
year-olds, adults, college leagues – practices and games) 
• Play areas need more swings and shaded areas 
 
Overall System 
• Do not build what cannot be maintained 
• More natural areas 
• Increase police presence through parks 
 
 
LIVE POLLING RESULTS 
 
The following questions were asked during the meeting. One participant entered their preferences in via a 
hard paper copy, and that is factored into the summarized “key takeaways.” 
 
Question 1: What is your age? 
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
The age groups of respondents was equal between the ages of 35-44 and 65-74, followed by ages 55-64. 
No one under the age of 25 attended the meeting. More people above the age of 55 attended the meeting 
than below. This question received 33 total responses.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 2: Where do you live? 
 
Key Takeaways 
The greatest number of attendees (36%) live in Cheyenne Ward 1, which is in the southwestern portion of 
the city. The second largest group of attendees live in Laramie County. The smallest group of attendees 
(12%) live in Cheyenne Ward 2 in the northern part of the city. This question received 34 responses.  
 
Question 3: How have you previously participated in this Park and Recreation System Plan 
creation? 
 
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
Most respondents (18) also took the community survey. Sixteen (16) responded that this is their first time 
being involved. Nine (9) people who attended the meeting serve on the project committee, council, or are 
city staff. This question received 53 responses from 36 respondents, as people were able to select multiple 
answers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix B.3  |  COMMUNITY WORKSHOP SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  9089  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
 
 
Question 4: We heard a strong desire for more indoor recreation space. In addition to the new 
spaces, what more is needed indoors?  
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
Most people (22) responded that a running/biking track is needed as indoor recreation space. The second 
most desired space (18) is a gymnasium with multiple sports courts. Other spaces like a playground, art 
classroom/makerspace, aquatics, meeting/event rooms, artificial turf, group fitness, cardio and weight 
equipment received around the same number of responses (10-13). This question received 125 responses 
from 36 respondents.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 5: What recreational activities should be added or expand on current offerings? 
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
Most respondents (22) agreed on more fitness/wellness spaces. Following up are free programs (19), 
senior activities (18), youth centers (16), and social services and special needs programs (15). The most 
wanted recreational activities serve a range of ages, incomes, and abilities across Cheyenne. This question 
received 161 responses from 37 respondents.  
 
 
 
Question 6: What would make the current parks and greenways more enjoyable?  
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
Most responded (21) that providing more wind shelter would make the current parks and greenways more 
enjoyable. The next three important actions to help make these places more enjoyable are: providing more 
shade (13), adding more natural elements and habitat (13), and adding seating, waste receptacles, and 
restrooms (13). This question received 103 responses from 37 respondents.  
 
 
 
 
 
Question 7: Where do you think Cheyenne should invest in the next ten years in response to 
community growth? 
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
Most respondents (24) want more significant additional indoor recreation/community center facilities to be 
built. The second focus on investment (21) is an increase in resources devoted to maintenance. Overall, 
respondents want a balance of helping maintain and upgrade the existing park system while also 
expanding the system for future open spaces like parks and indoor spaces like recreation centers. This 
question received 134 responses from 36 respondents.  
Appendix B.3  |  COMMUNITY WORKSHOP SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  9291  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
 
Question 8: We have heard of safety/security concerns for a few parks. What factors make you feel 
unsafe in these places? 
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
Most respondents (19) shared that there is evidence of threatening behavior in a few parks such as 
harassment, violence, aggression, drug use, and crime. Other respondents voted that vandalism and lack 
of park maintenance (15), and conflicts in how spaces are used (13) are other reasons for feelings of 
unsafety. Five (5) respondents did not share an opinion. This question received 80 responses from 36 
respondents.  
 
 
 
Question 9: Which of the following changes to standard lawn maintenance practices would you be 
willing to support, particularly if it resulted in cost savings? 
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
Most respondents agreed that some areas of park turf should be converted to taller native grasses (22) 
and/or mow large areas less frequently (8). Only three respondents do not want to see changes. This 
question received 36 responses.  
 
 
 
 
 
Question 10: What approach do you like best meeting the high demand for sports fields and 
courts? 
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
Most respondents (17) favor adding indoor fields and/or courts. The rest of the survey questions relating to 
maintenance and upgrades for sports fields and courts received few responses. This question received 36 
responses.  
 
 
Question 11: What do you think should be a focus for parks and recreation in the next 10 years? 
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
21% of respondents would like to add an indoor recreation/community center. 18% would like to enhance 
the environment and protect nature. Overall, land acquisition and protection are two more broad focuses 
which should be worked to balance between the development of indoor spaces, the protection of open 
spaces, and the creation of new parks. Each of the 36 respondents ranked their top three (3) priorities, 
creating 108 responses.  
Appendix B.3  |  COMMUNITY WORKSHOP SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  9493  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Question 12: Which of these funding mechanisms would you like to see used in the future? 
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
Most respondents (30) want to continue to allocate Lotto proceeds to the Department for park 
improvements and ask voters to fund the construction and operation of a significant new facility such as an 
indoor recreation center (26). Overall, respondents agree that revenue generation should be diversified and 
allocated toward Cheyenne’s parks. This question received 106 responses from 35 respondents.  
Appendix B.3  |  COMMUNITY WORKSHOP COMMENT CARDS
Appendix B.3  |  COMMUNITY WORKSHOP SUMMARY
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  9695  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.3  |  COMMUNITY WORKSHOP COMMENT CARDS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  9897  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.3  |  COMMUNITY WORKSHOP MAPPING EXERCISE
Appendix B.3  |  COMMUNITY WORKSHOP COMMENT CARDS
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  10099  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.3  |  COMMUNITY WORKSHOP MAPPING EXERCISE
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  102101  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.3  |  COMMUNITY WORKSHOP MAPPING EXERCISE
CHEYENNE PARKS AND 
RECREATION MASTER PLAN 0 0.3 MI 0.6 MI 1.2 MI
North Cheyenne 
Community Park
Lake Abarraca 
Recreation Area
Kiwanis Park
Lions Park
Ice and Events Center
David R Romero South Cheyenne Community Park
Cheyenne Regional 
Airport
Francis E. Warren 
Air Force Base
25
30
212
180
212
212
80
25
25
Western Hills BlvdWestern Hills Blvd
Evers Blvd
Evers Blvd
Vandehei AveVandehei Ave
Western Hills Park
Evers School Vandehei Ave
Vandehei Ave
Bar X Park
Sioux DrSioux Dr
Osage Ave Osage Ave
Central High School
Yellowstone Rd Yellowstone Rd
Storey BlvdStorey Blvd
Gardenia DrGardenia Dr
Pointe Park
Powderhouse Rd
Powderhouse Rd
Davis School
Hobbs School
Marshall Rd Marshall Rd
Crow Rd Crow Rd
Powderhouse Rd Powderhouse Rd
Melton StMelton St
Mylar Park
Dell Range Blvd
Dell Range Blvd
Prairie Ave
Prairie Ave
Meadowlark School
Storey BlvdStorey Blvd
Dell Range BlvdDell Range Blvd
Rue Terre
Rue Terre
Converse Ave
Converse Ave
Anderson School
Basin StBasin St
M
ountain Rd
M
ountain Rd
Sheridan StSheridan St
Ridge Rd Ridge Rd
N C
ollege D
r
N C
ollege D
r
Buffalo Ridge School
Sullivan StSullivan St
Ontario Ave
Ontario Ave
Dell Range BlvdDell Range Blvd
Whitney Rd Whitney Rd
Dildine School
Van Buren Ave Van Buren Ave
Polk Ave Polk Ave
Rio Verde St
Rio Verde St
Pierce Ave Pierce Ave
Saddle Ridge School
Laramie StLaramie St
E Pershing Blvd
E Pershing Blvd
W Pershing BlvdW Pershing Blvd
W 8th AveW 8th Ave
Care
y A
ve
Care
y A
ve
Jaycee Park
Deming School
Warren Ave Warren Ave
Miller School
Airport PkwyAirport Pkwy
E 5th AveE 5th Ave
Oxford Dr
Oxford Dr
Converse Ave
Converse Ave
Arp School
Brimmer Park
Cahill Park
E Pershing BlvdE Pershing Blvd
Ridge Rd Ridge Rd
Cheyenne StCheyenne St
Baggs School
Rawlins StRawlins StCleveland Ave Cleveland Ave
Pioneer Park
Randall Ave
Randall Ave
Days Ave Days Ave
Dillon Ave Dillon Ave
W 28th St
W 28th St
Snyder A
ve
Snyder A
ve
W 24th St
W 24th St
E 20th St
E 20th St
Oneil A
ve
Oneil A
ve
W Lincolnway
W Lincolnway
Centra
l A
ve
Centra
l A
ve
W
arre
n A
ve
W
arre
n A
ve
E 19th St
E 19th St
Maxwell A
ve
Maxwell A
ve
Holliday Park
Morrie A
ve
Morrie A
ve
E LincolnwayE Lincolnway
Logan Ave
Logan Ave
Converse Ave Converse Ave
Henderson School
Henderson Dr
Henderson Dr
E 12th StE 12th St
E 9th StE 9th St Fremont Ave Fremont Ave
Ridge Rd Ridge Rd
Taft Ave Taft Ave
Grandview Park
E 12th StE 12th St
Madison Ave Madison Ave
E 6th StE 6th St Atlantic Dr
Atlantic Dr
Southwest Dr
Southwest Dr
25
W College DrW College Dr
W 5th StW 5th St
Cole School
W Leisher Rd
W Leisher Rd
W Jef erson RdW Jef erson Rd
W Allison RdW Allison Rd
Johnson Jr High
South High
S Parsley Blvd S Parsley Blvd
W College DrW College Dr
Walterscheid Blvd Walterscheid Blvd
W Fox Farm RdW Fox Farm Rd
E 5th St
E 5th St
House A
ve
House A
ve
E 9th St
E 9th St
E 1st St
E 1st St
Hebard School
Morrie Ave
Morrie Ave
Fairview School
E NationwayE Nationway
E 11th StE 11th St
212
80
E College DrE College Dr
Fox Farm-College
Campstool Rd
Campstool Rd 80
Christenson Rd
Christenson Rd
Hayes Ave
Hayes Ave
Fishing
Natural Open 
Space
Natural Open 
Space
New Park
New Park
Winter 
Activities
Restrooms
Restrooms
Restrooms
Restrooms
Restrooms
cross country skiing
Whitney Ranch 15-20 
Neighborhood Park
Rec Center to serve 
north and east
Future greenway
indoor tennis
more bus stops
Bike ramp tracks, skills 
trails, dirt jumps
very needed anywhere!
Desperately want the 
mile markers back on the 
Greenway!
archery
(aspirational)
make a natural walking 
area by stream
more amenities on SE 
side of Lions
somewhere more baseball
preserve special qualities
space for club sports
Belvoir
Connect to Belvoir
(aspirational)
underpass
future GW
cemetery?
crosswalk
enclosure design
rec center to serve 
south and west
underpass
community buildings
future gw?
future gw
railroad trail
W Crow Creek
move greenway off Del Range
mini bike 
motor park
cross country 
skiing on 
greenway
Indoor 
Recreation
Indoor 
Recreation
Indoor 
Recreation
Indoor 
Recreation
Indoor 
Recreation
Basketball 
Court
Safety
Safety
Restrooms
Restrooms
Restrooms
Restrooms
Restrooms
Walking 
Path
Walking 
Path
Safety
Safety
Safety
Restrooms
Maintenance
Maintenance
X4
X3
X2
X3 X2
X3
X2
X2
X2
X2
improve Belvoir area 
for hiking, mountain 
biking, etc
Trailhead
New Park
New Park
New Park
Playground
Natural Open 
Space
New Park
New Park
New Park
Dog Walking
Dog Walking
Nature 
Education
Pavilion 
Pavilion 
Bike 
Facilities
Bike 
Facilities
Bike Skills 
Park
Winter 
Activities
Dog Walking
Shooting Sports
Pool
Pool
Indoor 
Recreation
Splash Pad
Restrooms
Restrooms
Skateboarding 
Skateboarding 
Basketball 
Court
Volleyball 
Court
Volleyball 
Court
Natural Open 
Space
Pavilion Pavilion 
Ballfield
Pavilion Pool
Restrooms
X5 X2
X2
X2
X2 X2
X4
X2
X2
Plants/Trees
Plants/Trees
Plants/Trees
Walking 
Path
Skateboarding 
Skateboarding 
Ballfield
Indoor 
Recreation
Indoor 
Recreation
Bike Skills 
Park
Bike Skills 
Park
Paddling
Winter 
Activities
conflict at 
Brimmer 
between fields 
+ skaters
new rubber 
mats for some 
parks
Movie Dr. greenspace 
- special area of 
greenway, forested, 
needs cleanup
D1, Dry Creek 
Greenway MP Base 
connection
E-scooters 
- geofence 
barriers
-more park swings
-opening more school 
playgrounds
-easier access to parks for 
wagons or ADA
-Restroom on east end of 
Lions
-More wood chips in parks
Playground
Plants/Trees
Outdoor 
Events Space 
Outdoor 
Events Space 
Splash Pad
New Park
Parking
Art/History
Art/History
Nature 
Education
Trailhead
Bike 
Facilities
Indoor 
RecreationIndoor 
Recreation
Indoor 
Recreation
Disc Golf 
Soccer/Multi-
Use Field
Disc Golf 
Pickleball/
Tennis Court
Pickleball/
Tennis Court
golf
indoor 
water park
next to visitors center
greenway
Harmony
Park
In Cosmo
(aspirational)
county underpass 
flooding
county underpass 
flooding
county underpass 
flooding
indoor
84 acre 
community park
sweetgrass
high plains
divisionparsley
Nature 
Education
Trailhead
Paddling
Playground
Playground Restrooms
Pickleball/
Tennis Court
dog 
park
indoor 
soccer
Pool
X2
X2
Dog Walking
Ballfield
Playground
New Park
New Park
Bike Skills 
Park
Shooting Sports
Fishing
Maintenance
Maintenance
Maintenance
Maintenance
Safety
Plants/Trees
MLK to Base (see greenway MP)
for Frontier Days
grass strip 
at pool?
old terminal
actually called 
Jessup school
Maintenance
X3
Parking
Natural Open 
Space
Pickleball/
Tennis Court
Pickleball/
Tennis Court
Playground
Pavilion 
Outdoor 
Events Space 
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
Ice Rink
Skateboarding 
Pickleball/
Tennis Court
Skateboarding 
Plants/TreesPavilion 
Pavilion 
Pavilion 
Paddling Ice Rink
Walking 
Path
Playground
dog 
park
dog 
park
Nature 
Education
Ice Rink
Restrooms
Plants/Trees
Plants/Trees
Bike 
Facilities
add rbc center
Pete’s Pack
Appendix B Engagement Summary  |  104103  |  Appendix B. Engagement Summary
Appendix B.3  |  COMMUNITY WORKSHOP SUPER DAY BOARD

    ii
APPENDIX C  
NEEDS ASSESSMENT
 » Appendix C.1 LOS and Needs Assessment Memo
 » Appendix C.2 Equity Analysis and Priority Mapping
 » Appendix C.3 Quality of Nature Experiences Assessment
 » Appendix C.4 Recreation Programs and Services Assessment
 » Appendix C.5 Operations - Park Maintenance Assessment
 » Appendix C.6 Recreation Facilities Assessment
6
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  21  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.1  |  LOS AND NEEDS ASSESSMENT MEMO
One way to determine if more park space is needed is to analyze the number of acres of parkland per 1,000 residents. 
This LOS offers a land requirement guideline for parks, recreation areas, and facilities. Understanding the parkland 
acreage compared to the current and future projected population helps anticipate the needs of future growth and 
residents. The purpose of measuring LOS acreage per population is to monitor a community’s availability of developable 
and publicly accessible parkland.
PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITY PROVISIONS
The City of Cheyenne offers a wide variety of parks for residents of Cheyenne, its surrounding areas, and Laramie 
County. Currently, Laramie County does not serve recreational opportunities, so many residents outside the city limits 
utilize Cheyenne’s park system and recreation facilities.
Currently, 58% (31 properties) of Cheyenne’s parklands are developed parks, and 38% (27 properties) are natural areas 
(Figure 1). These include five community parks, 1 1 neighborhood parks, seven mini parks, eight sports complexes, six 
open space/natural lands, 21 greenway corridors and three undeveloped/planned properties (Table 1). The inventory 
also includes five cemeteries, two golf courses, five storm detention areas, and 55 visual resource areas. Cheyenne 
owns and maintains these properties, but they are separate from the parkland LOS as they do not provide recreational 
opportunities or have public access.
Figure 1 Percent Parklands
Table 1 Park System Totals. Source: Design Workshop, Cheyenne GIS Data
PARK SYSTEM TOTALS    
Park Category Acres Number of Properties
Community 355.69 5
Neighborhood 99.52 11
Mini 8.48 7
Sports Complex 168.98 8
Total Developed Parks 633 31
Open Space 266.40 6
Greenway Corridor 145.46 21
Total Natural Lands 412 27
Undeveloped/Planned 42.88 3
Total 1087 61
PROPERTIES WITH NO RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES OR PUBLIC ACCESS
Cemetery 60.04 5
Golf Course 204.13 2
Storm Detention Area 11.1 5
Visual Resource 50.2 55
MEMO: LOS AND NEEDS ASSESSMENT
To:  City of Cheyenne: Jeanie Anderson-Shrednik
From: Design Workshop: Anna Laybourn, Ashley Hejtmanek, Jennifer Pintar
Date: January 22, 2025
Project Name:  Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan
Project #: 7172
Subject:  Level of Service and Walkshed Analysis
The Level of Service and Needs Assessment captures all currently available data regarding parks, trails, and recreation 
facilities and analyzes what this means for the City of Cheyenne.
The Level of Service and Analysis of Service Areas report addresses the following:
• Level of Service Evaluation
• Parks and Recreation Facility Provisions
• Park Acres Per Population
• Greenways and Trails Provisions
• Recreation Facilities and Amenities Level of Service
• Walkshed and Gap Analysis
• Park Service Areas
• Greenway and Trails Service Areas
• Destination Parks
LEVEL OF SERVICE EVALUATION
Level of Service (LOS) standards for parks and recreation measure the ability to meet the current population’s needs and 
plan for future population growth. Although LOS metrics cannot be used as absolute standards, they can help determine 
if parkland or facilities are deficient by evaluating equitable distribution across populated areas and geographies. These 
metrics can also help inform community standards for developer contributions to parks, ensuring future neighborhoods 
align with regional expectations.
RECOMMENDED METHODS SUMMARY
Most parks and recreation organizations use a variety of metrics to evaluate needs, as multiple metrics may be required 
to establish needs. Design Workshop recommends utilizing two metrics, acres per capita and park distribution with 
access distance evaluations, to determine service gaps. These two metrics are commonly used to identify gaps in long-
term park space and recreational facility planning. Other assessments, such as park assessments, conditional ratings, 
public input regarding needs and desires, visitation rates, and equity analysis, can also inform the overall quality of a park 
system. It’s important to consider additional factors as potential metrics for ongoing service quality measurement.
Landscape Architecture
Planning
Urban Design
Strategic Services
Environmental Graphic Design
22860 Two Rivers Road #1
Basalt, Colorado 81621
970.925.8354
designworkshop.com
Developed 
Parks
Undeveloped/Planned 
ParksOpen Space & 
Greenways
58%38%
4%
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  43  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Park Acres Per Population
Level of service metrics for park acres per population can help identify 
deficiencies or inequalities in park space allocation by considering 
the population served within each area. The level of service analysis 
can be used to ensure that future park space provision is located in 
neighborhoods with fewer park resources to reduce pressures on the 
current park system and more equitably meet community needs. This 
can assist the City of Cheyenne in establishing long-term objectives to 
accommodate the projected population growth within its limits.
To calculate the level of service for park acres per population, the total 
park acreage is divided by the total population and multiplied by 1,000. 
The level of service calculation is performed for each park classification 
to gain a more detailed understanding of the diversity of park provision.
Table 2 summarizes the level of service analysis for the Cheyenne 
park system and presents the total number of park properties, publicly 
accessible acres across all park classifications, and the ratio of park 
acres per 1,000 people for 2023 and 2028. Cheyenne owns/manages 61 publicly accessible parks, open spaces and 
undeveloped properties totaling approximately 1,087 acres. With a population of 90,4051, Cheyenne currently provides 
12 acres per 1,000 residents of publicly accessible parks (Figure 2). Additionally, three undeveloped parklands, including 
Waterford Park, Rotary Park and future greenways parcels, contribute to the LOS of different park categories as park 
amenities are developed.
The City of Cheyenne’s natural lands include open space areas and greenway corridors, which contribute 412 acres 
towards the level of service. The open space parklands help protect significant natural areas and resources and may 
provide outdoor amenities like passive recreation through recreational trails, educational signage, nature art, and nature 
play elements. Greenway corridors are areas with direct access to the greenway trail system and provide space for park-
like recreation and place-making, public art, and interpretive signage. Note that the open space and greenway corridors 
do not include the greenway trail system.
The City of Cheyenne’s projected growth rate is expected to slow over the next five years. However, Cheyenne’s park 
system services many residents outside the city, including its surrounding communities and county residents. Using 
Cheyenne’s population data, the projected population will increase by about 1,270 to approximately 91,675 residents by 
20282. Based on this population data, roughly 15 more park acres are needed to maintain current levels of provision per 
person (Table 2).
Figure 2 Current Park Provision
1-1  2023 Census Data, ESRI Demographics
1-2  Ibid
Table 2 Acres Per Population. Source: Design Workshop, ESRI Demographics
ACRES PER POPULATION
Park Category Park 
Acres
Number of 
Properties
Acres per 1000 people 
(2023 Service Level) 
Population 90,405
Acres per 1000 people 
(2028 Service Level) 
Population 91,675
Acres Needed 
to Meet Current 
Level of Service 
Standards in 2028
Community 356 5 3.93 3.88 5
Neighborhood 100 11 1.10 1.09 1
Mini 8 7 0.09 0.09 0
Sports Complex 169 8 1.87 1.84 2
Total Developed 
Parks 633 31 7.00 6.90 9
Open Space 266.40 6 2.95 2.91 4
Greenway Corridor 145.46 21 1.61 1.59 2
Total Natural 
Lands 412 27 4.56 4.49 6
Undeveloped 42.88 3 0.47 0.47 1
Total 1,087 61 12.03 11. 86 15
GREENWAYS AND TRAILS PROVISIONS
The City of Cheyenne provides approximately 58 linear miles of trails throughout the trail system (Table 3). This includes 
an expansive greenway with 150 trails and 40 shared-use trails, offering connections, recreational opportunities, and 
multimodal transportation throughout the City.
Table 3 Greenways and Trails System Totals
TRAIL SYSTEM TOTALS    
Trail Category Miles (Length) Number of Trails
Greenway 46.92 150
Shared Use Trail 11. 50 40
Total 58 Miles 190
INDOOR COMMUNITY FACILITIES AND EVENT CENTERS AND AMENITIES LEVEL OF SERVICE
In addition to the sports complexes included in the parkland inventory, the City owns/manages several indoor 
community facilities and event centers. These facilities include five event centers, including the newly acquired Beast 
Foundation, and four indoor community facilities (Table 4). The City also recently acquired a new gymnastics center, 
which will serve as a future indoor recreation facility.
Table 4 Indoor Recreation Facility Inventory
INDOOR COMMUNITY FACILITIES AND EVENT CENTERS
Event Center
Beast Foundation
Botanic Gardens
Cheyenne Ice and Event Center
City Civic Center
Kiwanis Community House
Park Acres and Facilities Per 
Capita:
How much park space is available to 
the population? How might that ratio 
change over time with anticipated 
population growth? How many 
recreation facilities are provided per 
population? How does this metric 
apply to differing built environment 
conditions and potentials for park 
expansion?
Cheyenne Total Park Acres Per 
1,000 Population (2023) = 12 acres
Appendix C.1  |  LOS AND NEEDS ASSESSMENT MEMO
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  65  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Indoor Community Facility
Cheyenne Aquatic Center
Johnson Swimming Pool
Pioneer Park Rec Center
Youth Community Center
Table 5 shows facility totals per amenity for Cheyenne’s developed parks.
Table 5 Facility Totals for Developed Parks
FACILITY TOTALS FOR DEVELOPED PARKS
 
Amenities Number of Facilities Amenities Number of Facilities
Parking Spaces 32 Pickleball Courts Indoor 3
Native Landscaping Area 19 Fishing Sites 3
Total Playgrounds 20 Horseshoes 8
Play Equipment Ages 2 to 5 5 Archery/Shooting 
Range 1
Play Equipment Ages 2 to 12 2 Trailheads/access point 14
Play Equipment Ages 5 to 12 16 Mountain Bike Trail 3
ADA/ Universal Play Equipment 1 Connected to Greenway 19
Fitness Equipment 3 Bicycle or Pedestrian 
Path 32
Restrooms 19 Recreation Center 1
Portolets Seasonal 4 Concessions 11
Shelters 19 Golf Course 2
Rentable Shelters 6 Miniature Golf Course 2
BBQ Pit/Grill 11 Batting Cages 3
Benches/Seating 25 Botanical Garden 1
Picnic Tables 22 Pond or Lake 5
Drinking Fountain 11 Outdoor Pool 1
Pet Waste Station 18 Indoor Pool 1
Bike Rack 1 Swimming Area 1
Multipurpose Fields (Play Field) 17 Spray ground/Splash 
Pad 1
Ballfields (Baseball/Softball) 8 Amphitheater 1
Bocce Ball Courts 1 Interactive Art 1
Soccer Fields 3 Sculpture 10
Futsal Courts 1 Sheets of Ice 2
Volleyball Courts 5
Basketball Courts 12
Disc Golf 4
Skate Park 1
Tennis Courts 4
Pickleball Courts Outdoor 3
WALKSHED AND GAP ANALYSIS
The following section details the walkshed analysis findings for the City of Cheyenne. A walkshed analysis helps evaluate 
the accessibility of the current park system and measures the walking distance between residential addresses and 
publicly accessible park and recreation properties. It further determines the travel distances to each park through 
existing transportation and pedestrian networks to reveal residences that are not within a half-mile walking distance. 
Below is an overview of the walkshed analysis findings for Cheyenne’s publicly accessible parks, trails and greenways, 
and destination parks.
PARK SERVICE AREAS
The Park Walkshed Map (Figure 3) highlights the accessibility of publicly accessible parks within a half-mile (10-minute) 
walking distance of the City of Cheyenne. Park classifications incorporated in the walkshed include community parks, 
neighborhood parks, mini parks, sports complexes, and open spaces. Classifications not included in the analysis include 
cemeteries, golf courses, storm detention areas, visual resources, undeveloped land, and greenway corridors. These 
properties are not included because they do not provide recreational opportunities or have public access. The walkshed 
analysis also considers access barriers such as highways, roads, railroads, and waterways.
The map displays areas in orange as accessible to a park within a half-mile walking distance (Figure 3). Areas not 
highlighted in orange are not within a half-mile walk of Cheyenne’s publicly accessible parks and are considered a park 
and recreation gap. 
Figure 3 Park Walkshed Map. Source: Design Workshop, Cheyenne GIS Data
Appendix C.1  |  LOS AND NEEDS ASSESSMENT MEMO
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  87  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
GAP ANALYSIS
The walkshed analysis not only identifies parks within a half-mile walking 
distance but also highlights the gaps where people need public access to a 
park. The Residential Gap Map (Figure 4) displays the residential parcels (shown 
in red) that are not within a half-mile walking distance to a publicly accessible 
park. The analysis indicates that 83% of the population has access to a park 
within a 10-minute or half-mile walking distance. However, almost all of southern 
Cheyenne, south of Highway 80, is not within a half-mile distance and has the 
largest service area gap within the City. The next largest gap includes several 
neighborhoods to the east, specifically to the east of 212. Other gaps include 
neighborhoods to the north, areas just west of Highway 25, central Cheyenne 
just south of the airport, and parts of the historic district.
GREENWAY AND TRAILS SERVICE AREAS
A walkshed analysis for Cheyenne’s greenway and trail system measures the half-mile walking distances to each trail 
through trail access points, existing transportation, and pedestrian networks. The result of the trail accessibility analysis 
helps provide an understanding of areas well served by Cheyenne’s trail system. Cheyenne’s Greater Greenway, city-
owned trails, and trailheads are included in the walkshed. The walkshed analysis also considers access barriers such as 
highways, roads, railroads, and waterways.
Like the Park Walkshed Map, the below Greenway and Trails Walkshed Map (Figure 5) displays areas in orange as 
accessible to Cheyenne’s greenways and trail system. Most Cheyenne residents are within a half-mile of a greenway 
or trail access. Trail gaps include areas to the northwest, south of the airport, east of Highway 25, and several 
neighborhoods to the east. These gaps are also consistent with the park walkshed map. There is a significant difference 
in the accessibility of the trail system in the southern neighborhoods.
83% of Cheyenne 
Households are within a ½ 
mile (10-minute) walking 
distance of a park
Figure 5 Greenway and Trails Walkshed Map. Source: Design Workshop, Cheyenne GIS DataFigure 4 Residential Gap Map. Source: Design Workshop, Cheyenne GIS Data
Appendix C.1  |  LOS AND NEEDS ASSESSMENT MEMO
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  109  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
DESTINATION PARKS SERVICE AREAS
Destination Parks are larger parks with a citywide and regional draw. Residents often travel to these parks or drive to 
them due to recreational amenities and programming. The Destination Park Walkshed Map (Figure 6) displays the half-
mile driving distance to community parks and sports complexes. The walkshed map shows that almost all of Cheyenne 
is within the walkshed, and most residents in Cheyenne are within a half-mile driving distance to a destination park.
Figure 6 Destination Park Walkshed Map. Source: Design Workshop, Cheyenne GIS Data
Appendix C.1  |  LOS AND NEEDS ASSESSMENT MEMO Appendix C.2  |  EQUITY ANALYSIS AND PRIORITY MAPPING
MEMO: EQUITY ANALYSIS AND PRIORITY MAPPING
To:  City of Cheyenne: Jeanie Anderson-Shrednik 
From: Design Workshop: Anna Laybourn, Ashley Hejtmanek, Jennifer Pintar, Alexandra Pollock
Date: May 16, 2024
Project Name:  Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan
Project #: 7172
Subject:  Equity Analysis
EQUITY ANALYSIS
Cheyenne is dedicated to ensuring all residents have access to parks and recreation regardless of age, gender, or 
physical ability and that residents in and outside the city can enjoy a variety of well-maintained parks and excellent 
recreational facilities. Cheyenne aims to have an inclusive park system that offers something for everyone, from 
playgrounds and sports fields to greenway trails and open spaces. 
A system-wide park master plan is a tool that can help us understand the history and current barriers to park access 
and set a vision and plan to remove inequities and ensure parks and open space are providing the most benefit to 
communities. This park-focused equity analysis provides insight into addressing equity gaps and can be a key tool 
in identifying priority areas within Cheyenne. The following analysis can help identify where additional resources are 
needed, understand the local factors currently driving the cumulative impacts, and develop strategies to address the 
source of these impacts.
Landscape Architecture
Planning
Urban Design
Strategic Services
Environmental Graphic Design
22860 Two Rivers Road #1
Basalt, Colorado 81621
970.925.8354
designworkshop.com
National Parks and Recreation Association’s Working Definition of Equitable Park & 
Recreation Access
The just and fair quantity, proximity and connections to quality parks and green space, recreation 
facilities, as well as programs that are safe, inclusive, culturally relevant and welcoming to 
everyone. When people have just and fair access, our health and social wellbeing improve, and our 
communities can protect and better recover from environmental, social and economic challenges.
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  1211  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Figure 1 Cheyenne Park System Map
Appendix C.2  |  EQUITY ANALYSIS AND PRIORITY MAPPING
EQUITY PRIORITY ZONES
The Equity Priority Zones section provides a detailed breakdown of the Equity Index, a composite of three equally 
weighted sub-indexes. Each sub-index includes factors related to quality-of-life determinants that could inform parks and 
recreation provision. The Equity Index highlights priority zones within the City of Cheyenne, which are areas with higher 
concentrations of vulnerable populations and health conditions indicative of environmental inequities. The Equity Index 
Priority Map Composite, shown in Figure 2, visually represents these zones.
The equity zones are categorized using a ranking scale that indicates the priority level. A lower percentile ranking 
corresponds to a lower equity priority area, while a higher ranking signifies a higher equity priority area. The red zones, 
highlighted for equity, require the most attention and resources.
The areas with the highest priority for equity are primarily located in the southwest and central sections of the city, 
including the historic district, areas between the I-25 and I-80 corridors, and along the railway. Other high-priority 
areas are centered around the Cheyenne Regional Airport, particularly to the north and south. Additional areas include 
neighborhoods to the east, around Highway 212 and the Lincoln Highway.
Figure 2 Equity Index Priority Map Composite

 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  1413  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
EQUITY INDICATORS
ABOUT THE METHODOLOGY
The Equity Mapping Methodology described in this document considers equity through the lenses of Health, 
Socioeconomic, and Environmental Justice indicators. It incorporates a wide range of demographic, environmental, and 
community factors relevant to park-related equity. For this analysis, equity was calculated as a composite of three sub-
indexes (weighted equally), each containing several indicators combined to generate a specific sub-index score.
These three sub-indexes are:
1. Age, ability, and health indicators (12 factors)
2. Demographic, economic, and social indicators (9 factors)
3. Natural and environmental hazards (3 factors)
The first sub-index incorporates indicators relating to age, ability, and health. The second sub-index looks at the 
demographic, economic, and social aspects. The third includes natural and environmental hazards. Each sub-index has 
its own set of corresponding indicators that summarize multiple datasets into one measure by normalizing dissimilar 
data to give every characteristic the same scale. This approach allows for “apple-to-apples” comparisons of dissimilar 
data. When combined, the three sub-indexes generate an Equity Priority Zones composite map.
Below is the list of indicators included in each sub-index. The tables contain a (+) or (-) next to each indicator. These 
represent how the given indicator is correlated to the index value. A (+) means that a higher indicator value contributes to 
a higher index value, while a (-) means a higher indicator value contributes to a lower value.
The indicators were combined for every census block group within the City of Cheyenne. Block groups were then 
arranged into quantiles based on their combined scores. These quantiles ranged from “lower” to “higher” levels of equity 
focus, showing areas with the fewest to most equity indicators.
The tables below show the breakdown of the indicators, a brief description, and the data source for each Sub-Index 
(Table 1, Table 2, Table 3).
Table 1 Age, Ability, and Health Indicators
INDICATOR DESCRIPTION DATA SOURCE
Age, Ability, and Health Factors 
Uninsured Population (+) % of population without health insurance 2021 (ACS 5-Year)
Food Stamps/SNAP (+) % of households with food stamp/SNAP benefits 2021 (ACS 5-Year)
Asthma (+) Current asthma prevalence among adults CDC Places
Heart Disease (+) Coronary heart disease among adults CDC Places
Diabetes (+) Diagnosed diabetes among adults CDC Places
Mental Health (+) Poor mental health for 14 days or more among adults CDC Places
Physical Health (+) Poor physical health for 14 days or more among 
adults CDC Places
Disability (+) % households with 1+ person with a disability 2021 (ACS 5-Year)
Hypertension (+) High blood pressure among adults CDC Places
Respiratory Disease (+) COPD among adults CDC Places
Senior Population (+) % population older than 65 2023 Senior Population
Young Children (+) % population ages 0-4 2023 Population Ages 0-4
Table 2 Demographic, Economic, and Social Indicators
INDICATOR DESCRIPTION DATA SOURCE
Demographic, Economic, and Social Indicators
Poverty (+) % of households below poverty level 2021 HH Pop w/ Income Below 
Poverty Level (ACS 5-Year)
Unemployment (+) % of population experiencing unemployment 2023 Unemployed Population 16+
Vehicle Access (+) % of households without access to a vehicle 2021 Owner HHs with 0 Vehicles 
(ACS 5-Year)
Cost Burden (+) % of households experiencing extreme housing cost 
burden (>50% of income spent on housing)
2021 HHs/Gross Rent 50+% of 
Income (ACS 5-Year)
Housing Tenure (+) % of renter-occupied households 2023 Renter Occupied HUs
Racial Minority (+)
% of population that identifies as Hispanic/Latino, 
Black, American Indian, Asian, Native Hawaiian, 
Other, or Two or More Races. May total over 100% 
because of how census data is collected.
2021 (ACS 5-Year)
Housing Condition (+) % of housing units built before 1960 2021 (ACS 5-Year)
Population Density (+) Population per square mile 2023 Population Density
Internet Access (+) % of households without Internet access 2021 HH’s w/No Internet Access 
(ACS 5-Year)
Table 3 Natural and Environmental Hazards Indicators
INDICATOR DESCRIPTION DATA SOURCE
Natural and Environmental Hazards
Tree Canopy Cover (-) % tree canopy cover NLCD
Impervious Surfaces (+) % developed impervious surface NLCD
Flood Risk (+) Area at increased flood risk (1 = no area at increased 
flood risk, 3 = whole area at increased flood risk) FEMA
EQUITY INDICATORS
1. AGE, ABILITY, AND HEALTH INDICATORS
This sub-index analysis looks at the equity surrounding age, ability, and health indicators. These indicators are important 
to understand barriers that may exist for certain groups of individuals, such as seniors, children, those with disabilities, 
limited mobility, or health conditions.
WHY THESE INDICATORS ARE IMPORTANT:
Parks and time spent in nature have been found to have numerous health benefits like improved respiratory health, 
blood pressure, cholesterol levels and better perceptions surrounding health1. Additionally, spending time in parks and 
nature has a positive impact on mental well-being and cognitive function, including an improved ability to cope with 
1-1  Dong Y, Liu H, Zheng T. Association between Green Space Structure and the Prevalence of Asthma: A Case Study of Toronto. Int J Environ Res Public 
Health. 2021 May 29
Appendix C.2  |  EQUITY ANALYSIS AND PRIORITY MAPPING
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  1615  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
depression, anxiety, and stress levels2. Exposure to outdoor spaces has also been linked to increased physical activity, 
which can lead to better overall health outcomes. 
Indicators surrounding age help understand where generational needs in parks are. For example, inclusive, safe, 
and age-appropriate play areas for children and benches and rest areas for older adults should be included. 
Additionally, parks for people with limited mobility and disabilities might have paths and facilities designed to be 
accessible and easy to navigate. Considering the indicators below helps the City understand areas of health disparities, 
age gaps, and ability differences.
Indicators for age, ability, and health include:
The southwest and central area of the city had especially high rates of the following: 
• Uninsured population
• Food stamps/SNAP recipients, particularly in the historic district and along the railway (north of I-80)
• Asthma, particularly in areas south of I-80
• Heart disease, particularly in areas between the railway and I-80 
• Diabetes, particularly in areas along the railway
• Poor mental health, particularly in the historic district and along the railway (north of I-80)
• Poor physical health
• Disability, particularly in the historic district and south of I-80
• Respiratory disease, particularly in the historic district and along the railway (north of I-80)
• Young children, particularly in areas between the I-180 and I-80 corridors
The area immediately north of the airport had especially high rates of the following: 
• Uninsured population
• Food stamps/SNAP recipients
• Heart disease
• Hypertension
• Young children
Areas to the east around Highway 212 and the Lincoln Highway had especially high rates of the following: 
• Uninsured population, particularly in the area west of Highway 212
• Heart disease
• Disability
• Hypertension, particularly in the area east of Highway 212
• Senior population, particularly in the area east of Highway 212
1-2  Parks and Improved Mental Health and Quality of Life. NRPA. https://www.nrpa.org/our-work/Three-Pillars/health-wellness/ParksandHealth/fact-sheets/
parks-improved-mental-health-quality-life/
• Uninsured Population
• Food Stamps/SNAP
• Asthma
• Heart Disease
• Diabetes
• Mental Health
• Physical Health
• Disability
• Hypertension
• Respiratory Disease
• Senior Population
• Young Children
• Young children
The area below I-80, just west of Highway 212 had especially high rates of the following:
• Uninsured population
• Food stamps/SNAP recipients
• Asthma
• Heart disease
• Diabetes
• Poor mental health
• Poor physical health
• Respiratory disease
Figure 3 Age, Ability, and Health Indicators Map
Appendix C.2  |  EQUITY ANALYSIS AND PRIORITY MAPPING
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  1817  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
2. DEMOGRAPHIC, ECONOMIC, AND SOCIAL INDICATORS
This sub-index analysis examines the equity surrounding demographic, economic, and social indicators. These 
indicators are important to understand barriers that may exist for certain groups of individuals based on race, ethnicity, 
income, and job status.
WHY THESE INDICATORS ARE IMPORTANT:
Understanding the relationship between access to parks and socioeconomic status is critical to identifying 
environmental injustices. Income, for example, is a powerful predictor of park access. In a national study conducted 
in 2021 by the Trust for Public Land, low-income communities had access to 42 percent less than high-income 
neighborhoods3. Additionally, on average, low-income households are served by parks that are four times smaller than 
those serving high-income households (25 acres versus 101 acres) 4. 
On a national level, neighborhoods with predominantly non-white populations have 44 percent less park acreage than 
predominantly white neighborhoods5. According to the Trust for Public Land study, there is a noticeable difference in the 
amount of park acreage available in neighborhoods with predominantly white residents and neighborhoods where the 
majority of residents identify as Hispanic or Latinx. The study reveals that predominantly Hispanic/Latinx neighborhoods 
have access to 54 percent less park acreage per person than predominantly white neighborhoods.
Indicators for demographic, economic, and social impacts include:
• Poverty
• Unemployment
• Vehicle Access
• Cost Burden
• Housing Tenure
• Racial Minority
• Housing Condition
• Population Density
• Internet Access
The southwest and central area of the city had especially high rates of the following: 
• Poverty, particularly in areas between the railway and I-80
• Unemployment, particularly in the historic district and in areas south of I-80
• Cost burden, particularly in areas south of I-80
• Renter households, particularly in the historic district and in areas between the railway and I-80
• Housing built before 1960, particularly in the historic district and in areas between the railway and I-80
The area immediately south of the airport had especially high rates of the following: 
• Cost burden
• Housing built before 1960
• Households without Internet access
The area immediately north of the airport had especially high rates of the following: 
• Unemployment, particularly in the area east of Highway 219/Yellowstone Road
• Households without vehicle access
1-3  Trust for Public Land. Parks and an Equitable Recovery. 2021 https://www.tpl.org/parks-and-an-equitable-recovery-parkscore-report
1-4  Ibid 
1-5  Ibid
• Cost burden, particularly in the area east of Highway 219/Yellowstone Road
• Renter households, particularly in the area west of Highway 219/Yellowstone Road
• Minority population, particularly in the area east of Highway 219/Yellowstone Road
• Housing built before 1960, particularly in the area east of Highway 219/Yellowstone Road
Areas south of I-80 and east of Highway 212 had especially high rates of the following:
• Poverty
• Households without vehicle access
• Minority population
• Households without Internet access
The area below I-80, just west of Highway 212 had especially high rates of the following: 
• Poverty
• Unemployment
• Renter households
• Housing built before 1960
• Households without Internet access
Figure 4 Demographic, Economic, and Social Indicators Map
Appendix C.2  |  EQUITY ANALYSIS AND PRIORITY MAPPING
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  2019  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
3. NATURAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS INDICATORS
This sub-index analysis analyzes the equity surrounding natural and environmental hazards indicators. These indicators 
are important to understanding quality of life and public health obstacles, such as weather exposure, tree canopy cover, 
and other hazards.
WHY THESE INDICATORS ARE IMPORTANT:
Excessive heat can cause various health issues, such as heat exhaustion, heatstroke, poor mental health, and 
cardiovascular stress6. According to the Trust for Public Land study, evidence indicates that parks are one of the most 
effective ways for cities to protect their residents from the impacts of extreme heat. Locations that have limited green 
areas are at a higher risk of flooding. This is because vegetation plays a vital role in capturing stormwater and preventing 
it from flooding streets and homes.
Indicators for Natural and Environmental Hazards include:
• Tree Canopy Cover
• Impervious Surfaces
• Flood Risk
The historic district had especially high rates of the following: 
• (Absence of) tree canopy cover
• Impervious surfaces
The area immediately north of the airport had especially high rates of the following:
• Impervious surfaces, particularly in the area west of Highway 219/Yellowstone Road
• Flood risk
1-6  The Power of Parks to Promote Health - Trust for Public Land (tpl.org)
Figure 5 Natural and Environmental Hazards Indicators Map
Appendix C.2  |  EQUITY ANALYSIS AND PRIORITY MAPPING
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  2221  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.3  |  QUALITY OF NATURE EXPERIENCES ASSESSMENT
CHEYENNE NATIVE SPECIES
VALUE OF SHORTGRASS PRAIRIE 
ECOSYSTEM
The shortgrass prairie holds significant value for 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, contributing to the region’s 
ecological, economic, and cultural vitality. Ecologically, 
this unique ecosystem supports a diverse array of plant 
and animal species, including many that are native to the 
area ( ). Economically, the shortgrass prairie supports 
local agriculture and livestock grazing, providing essential 
resources for ranchers and farmers. Culturally, it is a 
symbol of the Western heritage, offering recreational 
opportunities and maintaining the scenic beauty that 
attracts tourists and enhances the quality of life for 
residents. Protecting and preserving shortgrass prairie 
ensures the sustainability of these benefits for future 
generations in Cheyenne.
According to the IUCN, the Northern Shortgrass Prairie 
ecoregion is classified as “Critical/Endangered” due to 
significant habitat loss and insufficient protection. These 
prairies are crucial for biodiversity, supporting numerous 
species of plants, birds, and mammals. They serve as 
habitats for species like the black-tailed prairie dog, which 
is a keystone species for this ecosystem.
Additionally, shortgrass prairies are essential for carbon 
sequestration, soil conservation, and water regulation, 
contributing to environmental health and climate change 
mitigations. However, shortgrass prairies have suffered 
extensive degradation, with nearly half of their original 
area converted to agricultural or other uses. Conservation 
efforts are necessary to protect these ecosystems from 
further destruction and to promote ecological recovery.
TURF TO NATIVE
LANDSCAPE TRANSFORMATION
Turf conversions or landscape transformations can be a 
viable alternative when setting goals that reduce water 
usage, fertilizer and herbicide applications, and improve 
biological diversity. The identification of non-functional turf 
grass, areas where there is no designated use or need for 
turf grass, and the resulting transformation can help cities 
reduce maintenance costs and improve a wide range of 
ecosystem services provided by parks and open spaces. 
Landscape transformations can challenge the way that 
people envision parks spaces, but the classical vision of 
a park that is mowed grass under the shade of deciduous 
trees does not often align with the ecological conditions of 
the arid west. Landscape transformations can also include 
the removal of unnecessary concrete and asphalt as a way 
to improve infiltration and reduce stormwater runoff. The 
ecological benefits and user experience resulting from 
landscape transformations could have significant and 
meaningful impacts on the future of the Cheyenne park 
system.
ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT TOOL
Landscape Typology is an approach to classifying and 
assess landscapes within parks and open spaces. It is a 
qualitative and semi-quantitative Geographic Information 
System (GIS)-based approach which helps land managers 
understand the composition and performance of a plot 
of land. This tool is not describing landscape uses, like 
Sports and Active Recreation, but rather documenting the 
plant communities that make up the landscape to facilitate 
data-driven management actions and enable a deep 
understanding of the managed landscapes and how best 
to protect them.
Ferruginous Hawk
Longhorn Beetles Butterfly Grasshoppers
Great Plains Toad Plains Garter Snake Western Rattlesnake
Black-tailed 
Prairie Dog
Plains Bison Swift Fox Coyote Pronghorn 
Antelope
Burrowing Owl Mountain Plover Horned Lark Chestnut-collared 
Longspur
Grasshopper 
Sparrow
Lark Bunting McCown’s 
Longspur
Western 
Meadowlark
Curl Leaf Mountain 
Mahogany
Yucca Willow Silver 
Buffaloberry
Rocky Mountain 
Juniper
Oneseed 
Juniper
Mugo Pine Elderberry Concolor Fir Common 
Juniper
Couch 
Grass
Meadow 
Fescue
Orchard 
Grass
RedtopRye 
Grasses
Smooth 
Bromegrass
Timothy 
Grass
Saltgrass Johnson 
Grass
Western 
Wheatgrass
Native Species Diagram
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  2423  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.3  |  QUALITY OF NATURE EXPERIENCES ASSESSMENT
Greenway Walkshed Gaps
Flood Hazard Zones
Cheyenne City Limits
Future Greenway Trails
Wetlands
Lakes, Rivers and Streams
Existing Trailheads
Cheyenne Greenway Existing
County Greenway Existing
State Lands
County Park
Federal Lands
Cheyenne Parks
Existing Open Space
Tree Canopy Cover
Open Space Potential Map
OPEN SPACE POTENTIAL MAP
0 0.75 1.5 3 MI
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  2625  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.4  |  RECREATION PROGRAMS AND SERVICES ASSESSMENT
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
Recreation Programs and Services Assessment  
 
The following section provides an assessment of Cheyenne’s Parks and Recreation Department 
current recreation services.  Information documented in this section was gathered through a series 
of staff interviews, facility and park tours, and a review of information and documents supplied by 
the Department.    
 
The assessment is also based on NRPA performance metrics, CAPRA accreditation requirements 
and industry best practices.  
 
The City of Cheyenne currently has a focused offering of recreation programs and services for its 
citizens.  
 
Important findings with programming include: 
 
• Like ma ny cities in the United States, Cheyenne  faces challenges in the delivery of 
recreation services in a cost effective and efficient manner.   
• The Parks and Recreation Department  focuses much of its programming efforts on 
aquatics, sports and youth.  
• There are a limited number of programs offered.   
• Much of the programming is offered by part-time staff or other organizations/associations. 
• There is not a formal program plan in place that identifies future areas of need or focus and 
a plan for accomplishing this. However, staff has developed an internal strategic plan for 
existing programs.   
• Programs have fees associated with them and fluctuate by program and instructor/program 
intensity.   
• Recreation programs and services are generally planned and delivered on a facility level to 
be responsive to varying needs and expectations. 
• Recreation programs do not have the benefit of having a comprehensive marketing plan in 
place.   
• The Division has basic performance measures and record -keeping regarding recreation 
programs.  
• The Division utilizes RecTrac as their recreation software program.   
 
 
Program Delivery 
  
The Department currently uses multiple models to deliver programs to the community.  The 
primary models can be described as follows:  
  
• Staff Run.  These programs are offered by the Department and are run by staff, both full-
time and part-time, and can take place on a seasonal or annual basis.    
o Benefit.  The Department has maximum control over the program, its content, and 
the instructors.  They can also maximize revenue generation.  
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
o Challenges.  The Department is responsible for managing and maintaining the 
staff.  
o Examples: learn to swim, playground program, etc.   
• Third Party.  These programs may or may not appear in the Department’s program 
brochure but are run by a third-party contractor.  These instructors are paid on a contract 
basis and there is typically a revenue split between the contractor and the Department.    
o Benefit.  Using contract instructors/programmers allows the Department to pivot 
as trends shift.  It also means that the Department does not have to hire additional 
part-time staff.  
o Challenges.  The biggest challenge is managing the contract as to how the 
program is run will be a reflection on the Department.  
o Examples: gymnastics, horseback riding, golf, etc.  
• User groups.  These programs may or may not appear in the Department’s program 
brochure and are run by an outside group that is utilizing facility or field space from the 
Department.    
o Benefit.  The Department is only utilizing the space, there is minimal staff time 
required, and it is transactional in nature.  
o Challenges.  The programs taking place can be associated with the Department 
which can cause challenges if not done properly.  
  
It is important to note that the program delivery model does not impact whether a program is a 
core service.     
 
Recreation Program Participation 
 
The chart below summarizes participation in recreation activities over the past three (3) years.       
 
Program 2021 2022 2023 
Summer Camp    
Enrolled 247 262 289 
Max 253 267 299 
% Full 97.6% 98.1% 96.7% 
    
After School Latchkey    
Enrolled 1,878 1,940 2,029 
Max 2,510 2,530 2,530 
% Full 74.8% 76.7% 80.2% 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  2827  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.4  |  RECREATION PROGRAMS AND SERVICES ASSESSMENT
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
Aquatics 2021 2022 2023 
Water Fitness    
Enrolled 361 211 316 
    
Learn to Swim 861 955 887 
    
Members 52 75 123 
Daily Admissions   27, 519 
Rentals/Birthday Parties 68 84 135 
    
 
Recreation 2021 2022 2023 
Youth    
Lacrosse 18 28 n/a 
Girls Softball 291 289 295 
Tee Ball 408 477 528 
Youth Tackle Football 231 228 203 
Youth Volleyball 122 110 148 
Youth Basketball 460 466 432 
Martial Arts 216 216 86 
Outdoor Adventure Program 140 136 112 
Gymnastics 3,812 2,561 4,476 
    
Adult    
Men’s Softball 45 46  
Women’s Softball 16 19  
Co-Rec Softball 39 42  
Adult Kickball 4 6  
Pickleball - Summer 12 12  
Pickleball – Fall 12 12  
Men’s Volleyball – Fall 7 7  
Women’s Volleyball – Fall 31 30  
Men’s Adult Basketball – Fall 10 15  
Co-Rec Volleyball – Winter 33   
Men’s Volleyball – Winter 7 7  
Women’s Volleyball – Winter 31 30  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
General Program Categories  
  
The following is a listing of general program categories where programs are often offered by full-
service parks and recreation agencies. It is unusual for an agency to directly offer programs in all 
of these areas, but there are usually either agreements with other providers for some of these 
activities or a referral to them.  
 
Aquatics – Learn to swim classes, aqua exercise classes, competitive swimming/diving, SCUBA, 
and other programs (artistic swimming, water polo, etc.). 
 
Cultural Arts – Performing arts classes, visual arts classes, music/video production and arts events. 
 
Education – Language programs, tutoring, science (STE AM) classes, computer and financial 
planning. 
 
Fitness/Wellness – Group fitness classes, personal training, wellness education and nutrition.  
 
General Interest – Personal development classes. 
 
Outdoor Recreation – Environmental education, hiking, camping, kayaking, fishing, and other 
activities. 
 
Self-Directed – This includes the opportunities for individuals to recreate on their own.  This can 
include activities such as open- gym, use of weight/cardio space and lap/recreational swimming.  
Although not an organized program, time and space must be allocated for this purpose.  
 
Senior/Older Adults – Programs and services that are dedicated to serving the needs of older adults.  
This can include all of the activity areas noted above plus social service functions. 
 
Social Services – This can include nutrition and feeding programs, job training, life skills training, 
and other activities such as health screenings.    
 
Special Events  – City wide or community center based special events that are conducted 
throughout the year. 
 
Special Needs – Programs for the physically and mentally impaired.  Also, inclusion programs.    
 
Sports – Team and individual sports including camps, clinics and tournaments.  Also includes 
adventure/non-traditional sports. 
 
Teens - Programs and services that are focused on serving the needs of teens.  This can include all 
of the activity areas noted above (except seniors). 
 
Youth – Before and after school programs, summer/school break camps, childcare, and preschool. 
 
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  3029  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.4  |  RECREATION PROGRAMS AND SERVICES ASSESSMENT
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
Programming Assessment by Classifications:  The categories below represent the major areas 
of focus for current Cheyenne recreation programs and services by categories commonly found in 
parks and recreation agencies nationally.  The program delivery column identifies how programs 
and services are cu rrently being provided to the community.  This assessment is based on 
programming offered from 2021 through 2023.  It is recognized that COVID had a huge impact 
on programming in 2020 and 2021, and many are now returning to previous levels.  
 
Area  
Aquatics Swim lessons are offered by city staff.  There are also aqua exercise classes 
offered at the Aquatic Center.  Lap Swim and swim team programs are offered 
throughout the year. Lifeguard certification courses are offered routinely 
throughout the year.  
Cultural 
Arts 
The department has the Civic Center which hosts performances from musical to 
dance to comedy to plays.    
Education Some education-based programs are integrated into camps. 
Fitness This is not a primary area for programs on land, however the aquatic center 
provides lap swimming and water fitness classes.    
General 
Interest 
There are a few programs in this area such as dog and horse classes.    
Outdoor 
Recreation 
The City has reservable outdoor shelters for self-directed activities. Sloan Lake 
has canoe, kayak, paddle board and paddle boat rentals.  Fishing is permitted.   
Self-
Directed 
There are a variety of drop -in recreation opportunities including field -based 
sports (baseball/softball, soccer, football, etc.), ice skating, swimming, racquet 
sports and other activities.  Rentals of both indoor spaces and athletic fields are 
also an important self-directed opportunity as well. 
Senior/Older 
Adults 
Laramie County Senior Services provides the majority of activities for seniors.  
Social 
Services 
The department does not provide programs in this area.  
Special 
Events 
There is one significant special event in Superday. The remainder of the year 
there are limited special events offered by the Department. Most all of these are 
more center based events rather than city wide activities.  Staff provides 
assistance at events provided by others.  
Special 
Needs 
This is not an established program area for the Parks and Recreation 
Department. Services in this area are offered by other providers in the Cheyenne 
area. 
Sports This is an area of focus for the department, with some youth sports being 
provided by other organizations. These other organizations utilize city fields for 
their programs.  Recreation has youth basketball, youth volleyball, youth 
lacrosse, youth football, adult softball, adult kickball, pickleball, adult 
volleyball and adult basketball 
Teens There are no specific programs offered in this area although the skate park is a 
popular amenity.   
Youth Recreation has a significant latchkey and summer camp program provided by 
city staff.   
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
City Recreation Program Determinants:  Based on the programs listed above, the following are 
general classifications of programs by degree of emphasis. 
 
High Program Area Medium Program Area Limited Program Area 
Aquatics Cultural Arts Education 
Self-Directed Outdoor Recreation Fitness 
Sports Special Events General Interest 
Youth Programs  Older Adults 
  Social Services 
  Special Needs 
  Teens 
 
Program Providers:  When the recreation services that City staff, contract or other organizations 
are providing are analyzed, there are two  program areas that are not being well covered , General 
Interest and Teens.  
 
Program Areas City 
Emphasis 
Contract or 
Other 
Providers 
Aquatics   
Cultural Arts   
Education   
Fitness/Wellness   
General Interest   
Outdoor Recreation   
Senior/Older Adults   
Social Services   
Self-Directed   
Social Services   
Special Events   
Special Needs   
Sports   
Teens   
Youth   
 
 
 
 
Programs Offered by Other Organizations  
  
Beyond the city and school district there are a significant number of other community 
organizations that provide recreation opportunities in the community.  These include:  
 
 
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  3231  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.4  |  RECREATION PROGRAMS AND SERVICES ASSESSMENT
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
Recreation Service Providers  
 
Art, Dance, Music   
  Act Two Studios 
  
Cheyenne Little Theater Players - Atlas Theatre & 
Mary Godfrey Playhouse 
  Dunlevy Family Band Studios 
  En Avant Dance Studio 
  Arts Cheyenne, Inc 
  Bodylines Dance Studio 
  Capital City Cheerleading 
Martial Arts   
  Quest Taekwondo Academy 
  Geoff Thompson's Tai Chi 
  Ahn's Tae Kwon Do Academy 
  American Martial Arts Systems 
  Quest Taekwondo Academy 
  Madhouse Jiu Jitsu 
  Cheyenne Brazilian Jiu Jitsu 
  Cheyenne Budokan 
Golf   
  Little America Golf Course 
  F E Warren AFB Golf Club 
  Cheyenne Country Club 
Ranges   
  Cheyenne Trap & Skeet Club 
  Cheyenne Rifle & Pistol Club 
Family Entertainment   
  Frontier Trampoline Park 
  Jumpin' Jack's Family Fun Center 
  Flippers Family Arcade 
  Roller City 
  Warren Adventure Park 
Misc   
  Laramie County Riders Association (Motorcross) 
  Cheyenne Family YMCA 
  Laramie County Library 
 The Arc of Laramie County 
 Boys & Girls Club of Cheyenne 
 Cheyenne Family YMCA 
 Laramie County Senior Services 
Fitness  
 Fitness One 
 Arhanta Yoga 
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
 Blossom Yoga 
 Little Lotus Yoga 
 Cheyenne Fit Body Boot Camp 
 CrossFit Cheyenne 
 Cross Fit Frontier 
 Gold’s Gym 
 Hiit 30 
 Peak Wellness Center 
 Planet Fitness 
 Push IV & Wellness Lounge 
 Wellness Collective 
 
Most of these organizations have their own facilities and are not dependent on city and school 
facilities for their programs.    
 
Recreation Service Providers Outside of Cheyenne 
  
While there are a number of recreation service providers in Cheyenne, the surrounding area also 
offer limited recreation services and facilities.  These include:  
  
Recreation Service Providers  Facilities  
Burns, WY   
 Community Center 
 Parks 
Laramie County, WY   
 Clear Creek Park 
 Event Center at Archer 
 Fairgrounds 
 Laramie County Shooting Sports Complex 
Pine Bluffs, WY   
 Community Center 
 Disc Golf Course 
 Golf Course 
 Parks 
 Senior Center 
 Swimming Pool 
State of Wyoming  
 Curt Gowdy State Park 
 
Organized recreation programs are limited in other communities and are primarily outdoor 
recreation related.   
 
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  3433  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.4  |  RECREATION PROGRAMS AND SERVICES ASSESSMENT
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
 
Current Program Assessment: The following is an overall assessment of the current level of 
recreation programming that is offered by the Parks and Recreation Department.  It is important 
to note that parks and recreation agencies today are not expected to be providing direct programs 
in all these areas, but this identifies where the strengths and weaknesses occur. 
  
Strengths – Programming strengths include the following: 
 
• The Division has a strong summer camp program for youth.   
 
• The Super Day special event is a tremendous event for the community.   
 
• There is a significant number of youth team sports, which are offered at City facilities by 
other organizations. 
 
• There are strong opportunities for self -directed activities, especially in trails  and parks.   
Providing time for this type of activity is important to meeting the overall recreation needs 
of the community.  
 
• Aquatics is available year -round within the Aquatic  Center, and seasonally at Johnson 
Pool.  
 
• There is a strong rental program in place for all facilities. 
 
Weaknesses – Programming weaknesses are noted below: 
 
• There are no teen, special needs, general interest or education programs that are offered. 
 
• Older adult and senior programming is not specifically spelled out.  There are opportunities 
within the existing programs, but the bulk of the programming takes place through the 
Laramie County Senior Activity Center.  
 
• There are limited opportunities offered by the department for cultural arts programs and 
activities.  
 
• There are virtually no outdoor recreation programs except for an outdoor adventure 
program and picnic rental programs. 
 
• There are only a few special events. 
 
• There is very little intergenerational programming or family-based programming available.  
Some example of these programs include creative arts and crafts workshops, cooking 
and/or food workshops, and parent-child sports clinics.  
 
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
• Much of the programming is the same from year to year with relatively small levels of 
program changes or the introduction of new programming. 
 
 
Gaps in Programming:  With limited Parks and Recreation  based recreation programming 
available, there are significant gaps in many categories of recreation programming.  This requires 
other organizations or providers in the market to fill this need.  Moving forward, the City of 
Cheyenne will need to make a determination if they want to increase the level of recreation 
programming that is offered or continue to rely on others for these services.  However, increasing 
recreation programming requires the following: 
 
• Staff time to develop and deliver new programs and services. 
 
• Additional funding to offset the cost of new programs and services in addition to revenues 
from program fees. 
 
• Adequate facilities and time available for new programs.   The issue is exacerbated by the 
continued increase in interest and attendance in recreation programming as well as the 
decrease in time available through the school buildings.  Acquiring the Beast, while 
providing indoor space not previously available to t he City, has not diminished the need 
for additional gymnasium space as the space is fully scheduled during the prime seasons.    
 
Other Recreation Programming Observations 
Beyond what is noted above, there are a number of other observations regarding recreation 
programs and services.  These include: 
 
Recreation Program Plan – The Parks and Recreation Department does not have a formal program 
plan that can be utilized to guide program development and areas of focus.  This would be very 
beneficial for the Department for long range recreation program planning. 
 
Program Marketing Efforts – The Department does not have a formal marketing plan in place that 
outlines marketing goals and tasks that need to be undertaken on a yearly basis.  Currently the 
information is distributed in a number of ways without a coordinated effort or plan.  Mechanisms 
for current disseminating information is through the website, social media, mailing lists and a 
seasonal brochure.  
 
Performance Measures – There are only a few performance metrics that are currently being tracked 
by the Department for recreation programs.   
 
Fee Policy – The Department would benefit greatly from having a formal fee policy in place that 
outlines how fees for programs and services are established. While not advertised, financial 
assistance exists by way of discount on programs, typically at a discount rate of 10%-20%.   
 
Youth Sports – With the growth in travel teams in most sports, this has put a great deal of pressure 
on existing facilities to meet tournament needs.   
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  3635  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.5  |  OPERATIONS - PARK MAINTENANCE ASSESSMENT
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
 
Parks Maintenance:   
 
Parks Maintenance 
 
Parks is responsible for the maintenance of parks, open space, detention areas, roadway 
enhancements and greenway/sidewalk/special use path corridors and visual green spaces. Parks 
does receive some assistance from other Public Works staff for Right of Ways and detention ponds 
but also provide assistance to Public Works during emergencies and natural disasters.  
  
Organizational Structure and Staffing 
 
• The Division has Manager, Supervisor, Foremen & Technicians. 
o Full-time staff is supplemented by 30-35 seasonal employees.   
 Seasonal staff joins in May and continues through August, bulk of these are 
high school and college students 
o Areas divided into areas 
 Parks (non-athletic fields) 
 Athletics 
 Irrigation 
 Greenway 
 
• The parks staff provide day-to-day maintenance tasks, primarily mowing and picking up 
litter.   
 
• The staff has increased in the past 3 years.    
 
• With the addition and expansion of the trail system, additional staff will be required. 
 
Operations 
 
• Parks maintains the following facilities: 
o 72 parks  
 31 Community, Neighborhood, Mini, Open Space and Undeveloped 
 8 Sports Complexes 
 33 Greenway Corridors  
o 2 golf courses 
o 64 properties with no recreation opportunities 
 56 Visual Resources 
 5 Cemeteries 
 3 Storm Detention Areas 
o 190 trails 
 58.4 miles 
o 271 acres of manicured/irrigated turf 
o City Building and Youth Alternatives Center are mowed by Parks 
 
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
 
• Parks does monthly inspections of playgrounds through ParkZapp, but does not have a 
Certified Playground Safety Inspector (CPSI) on staff. 
 
• Maintenance staff is scheduled Monday -Friday with rotational on -call staff.  A team is 
scheduled over the weekend.    
 
• Park maintenance is organized function, not geography.  Tasks are assigned each day.  With 
limited staff, there is not the ability to break up crews to focus on certain aspects or areas.   
 
• Most parks maintenance functions are conducted by Parks staff rather than being 
contracted out.  
o All parks are fertilized by contractor annually 
o Portion of tree pruning is contracted 
o Parking lot striping is contracted 
o Spraying herbicide along greenways is contracted 
 
• Maintenance is handled by different divisions:  
o Parks Maintenance – Vast majority of spaces including parks, open space, 
corridors, detention, and visual resources.  
 Includes the snow removal of over 14 miles of sidewalk/pathway.  
 There are 68 flower beds throughout the park system.  
 Maintain irrigation systems at 100 different sites plus trees on drip. 
o Cemetery – Opening and closing of graves and mowing 5 cemeteries 
o Forestry – Planting, pruning and tree removal throughout all city properties 
o Weed & Pest – Apply herbicides and pesticides  
o Clean & Safe – maintains Civic Commons 
 
• Overall, parks maintenance is good.  Residents of Cheyenne have a high standard and 
expectation for the parks.  The challenges are the age of the system, deferred maintenance 
issues, and the need for a maintenance plan to define priorities. 
 
• Parks does not have maintenance management software.   
 
• The Division does not have a formal maintenance plan but does utilize a task list for parks.   
 
• The Division needs to establish a playground replacement plan and lifecycle costing.  The 
average age of the playgrounds is 16.1 years old.  Many of the existing playgrounds are in 
poor condition. 
 
• The Division should consider establishing an asset management plan that also looks at the 
lifecycle costs.    
 
• The majority of the irrigation systems are centralized allowing for efficient watering.  Parks 
Department does not pay for water.  
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  3837  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.5  |  OPERATIONS - PARK MAINTENANCE ASSESSMENT
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
 
 
• Parks staff spends a considerable amount  of their time maintaining areas that have little 
recreational value rather than actually performing maintenance in City parks.  As a result 
parks staff is only able to perform routine maintenance (mowing and litter removal) on 
City parks.   
 
• The Division is behind in its on-going maintenance and is more in a reactionary mode as a 
result.   
 
• Parks Maintenance has not been allowed to provide input and projections for maintenance 
costs for new parks, trails or open acquisitions.   
 
Policies and Procedures 
 
• Parks and Recreation best practices call for departments to have comprehensive operational 
policies in place that are updated on a regular basis.  At this time Parks only has basic 
maintenance policies and procedures in place.  
 
Other 
 
• The Golf division has 2 mechanics to maintain all the small motor equipment.  They also 
assist other city departments.  Fleet Maintenance is under Public Works is responsible for 
vehicle maintenance.   
 
• Pavement maintenance is the responsibility of Parks.  Parking lot striping is contracted.  
Public Works does not provide staff or materials for pothole repair.  
 
• Parks is responsible for clearing snow from all park parking lots and facilities.  Public 
Works only plows on the street.  
 
• It is difficult to adequately recruit and train new or younger staff.    
 
• Need to increase the use of technology to better manage parks maintenance and track 
results and time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
 
Park Staffing Level Standards 
 
• Community, Neighborhood, Mini Parks– Low (1 per/12 acres), High (1 per/8 acres) 
• Open Space and Corridors – Low (1 per/18 acres), High (1 per/12 acres) 
 
Park Totals Acreage 
Staffing 
Low Level 
Staffing 
High Level 
Community 355.7 29.6 44.5 
Neighborhood 99.5 8.3 12.4 
Mini 8.5 0.7 1.1 
Open Space 266.4 14.8 22.2 
Greenway Corridor 145.5 8.1 12.1 
Undeveloped 33.0 1.8 2.7 
Total 908.5 63.4 95.0 
 
Sports Staffing Level Standards 
• Athletic Fields – Low (1 staff/4 fields), High (1 staff/2fields) 
• Golf Course – Low (1 staff/3 holes), High (1 staff/hole) 
 
Sports Complex & Golf 
# of 
Fields/Courses Acreage 
Staffing 
Low Level 
Staffing 
High Level 
Sports Complex 39 169.0 9.8 19.5 
Golf Course 2 204.1 9.0 27.0 
Total  373.1 18.8 46.5 
 
Other Staffing Level Standards 
• Mode 2 – Cemetery – Low (1 per/12 acres), High (1 per/8 acres) 
• Mode 3 – Storm Detention and Visual Resource – Low (1 per/18 acres), High (1 per/12 
acres) 
 
Other – Non-Recreational Totals  Acreage  Staffing   
Low Level   
Staffing  
High Level  
Cemetery 60.0 5.0 7.5 
Storm Detention Area 7.6 0.4 0.6 
Visual Resource 59.6 5.0 7.5 
Total 127.2 10.4 15.6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  4039  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.5  |  OPERATIONS - PARK MAINTENANCE ASSESSMENT
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
 
Trails Staffing Level Standards 
• Trails – Low (1 staff/20 miles), High (1 staff/10 miles) 
 
Trail Totals  Miles Staffing   
Low Level   
Staffing  
High Level  
Greenway 46.9 2.3 4.7 
Shared Use Trail 11.5 0.6 1.2 
Total 58.4 2.9 5.8 
 
 
Staffing Totals Staffing   
Low Level   
Staffing  
High Level  
Parks 63.4 95.0 
Sports 9.8 19.5 
Golf 9.0 27.0 
Other 10.4 15.6 
Greenway 2.9 5.8 
Total 95.5 163.0 
 
Like many parks and recreation departments, the City of Cheyenne utilizes full-time, part-time, 
and seasonal staff to conduct work activities each year.  The staffing levels above are for full-
time equivalents.  
 
Operations and Maintenance Challenges 
 
• New trails and responsibilities are being added to the department without additional 
resources.   
 
• Maintenance Plan – There is not a comprehensive maintenance plan for parks or facilities.  
There is a “one- size-fits-all” approach which leads to inconsistency.  Maintenance 
standards should be developed for different modes identifying tasks and frequency.   
 
• Equipment Maintenance – There needs to be an asset management plan that tracks lifecycle 
costs and deferred maintenance.  
 
• Parks are mowed from “curb -to-curb.”  Adjusting practices establish areas for native 
grasses and wildflowers to flourish can reduce the amount of mowing.   
 
• Playgrounds – There is a definite need to have a playground replacement program/budget. 
The safety surface under each structure varies from pea gravel to engineered wood fiber to 
pour in place to artificial turf.  The preference is for artificial turf.     
 
 
 
Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan 
Cheyenne, WY 
 
 
• Establishing standard types and even brands of equipment can greatly increase park 
maintenance efficiency by reducing the number of different replacement parts and 
materials needed for repairs. Examples of this are site amenities that are consistent across  
locations allow for some spare parts to be kept available that will work for any number of 
locations.  
 
• Park Maintenance Facility – The park shop is located on the east side of the city requiring 
the trailering of equipment to parks.  The building is in fair condition with adequate storage 
with the facility storing equipment for other departments.  The Weed & Pest maintenance 
building needs to be replaced.  The Forestry division works out of 2 locations, with the 
offices in Lions Park and maintenance in Dutcher.   
 
• Deferred Maintenance – This is a major issue with aging facilities.  There is a CIP budget 
in place, but this is not adequate for the magnitude of issues that are in place. 
 
• Athletic Field Maintenance – Diamonds are dragged daily during the season if there is a 
practice or game scheduled.  There is not a formal maintenance plan for overseeding, 
topdressing, applying herbicide or fertilizer, infield grooming/lip maintenance, etc . 
although much of these tasks are performed.  Fields have not been laser graded to ensure 
proper drainage.  
 
• Open Space – Managing and maintaining these areas is difficult and there is not enough 
funding or staff to accomplish what is needed.  
 
• CIP Budgets – These are underfunded for the needs that have been identified.  As a result, 
improvements really can only deal with emergencies and safety issues.   
 
• Volunteers - A volunteer program could be beneficial, but it will take staff time to 
administer.  
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  4241  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.6  |  RECREATION FACILITIES ASSESSMENT
 
 
 
 
Recreation Facilities Assessment 
Cheyenne has a number of parks, fields, pools and indoor facilities that support a variety of 
recreation services. This assessment delves into the City of Cheyenne’s outdoor facilities, sports 
complexes, indoor recreation facilities and event centers, showcasing the diverse range of 
activities available.  
 
The Programs and Facilities Division within the Community Recreation and Events Department 
plays an essential role in managing many of the City’s outdoor facilities, such as the sports fields 
and complexes. They also oversee the indoor facilities like the community buildings, including 
the Activity Center, Kiwanis Community House, Pioneer Park Center, and Youth Activity and 
Community Center, ensuring these spaces are well-maintained and accessible for all. This 
division also manages the Special Events within the Parks.  
 
Cheyenne Parks Division maintains the city parks, the Greenway, and maintenance fields for 
Softball, Baseball, and Soccer. The Recreation Division and Childcare manage multiple sports, 
fitness classes, pickleball, dog and horse classes, martial arts, specialty activities like sunset goat 
hiking, and many others. The Golf Division includes the Airport Golf Club and Kingham Prairie 
View Golf Course. 
 
Outdoor Facilities and Sports Complexes 
The City of Cheyenne has eight (8) sports complexes and six (6) outdoor facilities.  
 
Brimmer Softball Complex (3056 Windmill Rd.): 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key elements: 
• Three (3) diamonds with skinned infield 
o All fields have lights 
• Restroom 
• Batting Cages 
• Bulk material storage 
• Skatepark 
• Playground 
 
Brimmer Park Facility Amenities 
(“X” = Has) 
Parking Spaces X 
Total Playgrounds 2 
Play Equipment Ages 2 to 5 X 
Play Equipment Ages 5 to 12 X 
Restrooms X 
Shelters X 
BBQ Pit/Grill X 
Benches/Seating X 
Picnic Tables X 
Drinking Fountain X 
Pet Waste Station X 
Multipurpose Fields (Play Field) X 
Ballfields (Baseball/Softball) 3 
Skate Park X 
Trailheads/access point X 
Connected to Greenway X 
Bicycle or Pedestrian Path X 
Recreation Center X 
Concessions X 
Batting Cages X 
Sculpture  X 
 
Challenges: 
• No shade for spectators. 
• Wood at the bottom of the backstop fencing is in good condition but will require 
replacement.  
• Backstops do not have safety for foul balls. 
• Restrooms are outdated and do not meet ADA. 
• There are 3 parking lots with 2 of them requiring spectators and participants to cross an 
entryway. There is no lighting in the parking lot.  Asphalt is failing. 
• Batting cages are outdated and in need of replacement. 
• Concrete failing under skate park and lighting needs upgrade. 
• Irrigation does not have the appropriate tap size. Layout of the heads is not adequate for 
appropriate coverage.   
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  4443  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.6  |  RECREATION FACILITIES ASSESSMENT
 
 
 
 
• Concessions – drinking fountains don’t work.   
 
Cahill Soccer Complex (Dell Range Blvd and Friendship Circle): 
 
Key elements: 
• Five (5) rectangle athletic fields 
o Fields are broken into smaller playing surfaces, up to eight (8) fields per rectangle 
o No lights 
• Restroom 
• Playground  
 
Challenges: 
• No shade or bleachers for spectators. 
• No means of controlling access to fields. 
• One (1) restroom building to serve entire park.  Distance of over 500 feet to restroom from 
a number of fields. 
• No field lights.  
• No netting behind goals allowing stray balls to carry beyond playing surface 
• Parking lot is in poor condition and there is no lighting creating excessive amount of 
vandalism.  
 
Cheyenne Jr. Baseball Complex (4211 Converse Ave.): 
 
   
 
Key elements: 
• Nine (9) diamonds athletic fields 
o Fields are in three (3) pods 
 One (1) field in each pod has artificial turf infield 
 Two (2) fields have skinned infield 
o No lights 
• Restroom 
• Batting cages 
• Paved trail 
• Maintenance equipment storage (4 bays) 
 
 
 
 
Junior League Complex Facility Amenities 
(“X” = Has) 
Parking Spaces X 
Total Playgrounds 3 
Play Equipment Ages 2 to 5 X 
Restrooms X 
Benches/Seating X 
Pet Waste Station X 
Ballfields (Baseball/Softball) 9 
Trailheads/access point X 
Connected to Greenway X 
Bicycle or Pedestrian Path X 
Concessions X 
Batting Cages X 
Sheets of Ice 1 
 
Challenges: 
• No shade, bleachers or safety netting for foul balls for spectators.  
• No lights for safety, security. 
• Artificial turf is in good shape, but a plan needs to be developed for replacement. 
• Parking lot is in need of replacement and no lighting.  
• Playgrounds near fields are covered but pose a safety risk. 
 
Converse Softball Complex (3800 Converse Ave.): 
 
 
 
Key elements: 
• Four (4) diamonds athletic fields 
o Skinned infields 
o All fields have lights 
• Restroom 
• Concessions 
• Batting cages 
 
 
 

 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  4645  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.6  |  RECREATION FACILITIES ASSESSMENT
 
 
 
 
Converse Softball Complex Facility Amenities 
(“X” = Has) 
Parking Spaces X 
Restrooms X 
Benches/Seating X 
Picnic Tables X 
Drinking Fountain X 
Pet Waste Station X 
Ballfields (Baseball/Softball) 4 
Trailheads/access point X 
Connected to Greenway X 
Bicycle or Pedestrian Path X 
Concessions X 
Batting Cages X 
 
Challenges: 
• No shade for spectators.   
• Wood at the bottom of the backstop fencing is in good condition but will require 
replacement.  
• Parking lot is in poor condition, and additional parking needed. 
• Restrooms and concessions need to be upgraded as it was built in 1980s 
 
Dutcher Baseball Complex (4212 Converse Ave.): 
 
 
 
Key elements: 
• Five (5) diamonds athletic fields 
o Four (4) fields have grass infields, one (1) field has skinned infield 
o Two (2) fields have lights 
• Restroom 
• Concessions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dutcher Field Facility Amenities 
(“X” = Has) 
Parking Spaces X 
Restrooms X 
Benches/Seating X 
Picnic Tables X 
Ballfields (Baseball/Softball) 5 
Connected to Greenway X 
Bicycle or Pedestrian Path X 
Concessions X 
 
Challenges: 
• No shade for spectators. 
• No accessible route to spectator seating. 
• Fence posts on fields are in poor condition. 
• Field light poles are wooden and will need to be replaced. 
• Parking lot is in poor condition. 
• Fields are not in the typical layout  of wagon wheel with potential for balls from one field 
able to enter the field of play of another. 
• Age of facilities in general, many not meeting code for ADA, electric, plumbing, etc.  
 
North Cheyenne Community Park (S. Lions Park Dr.): 
 
  
 
• Five (5) rectangle athletic fields 
o Fields are broken into smaller playing surfaces, up to six (6) fields per rectangle 
o No lights 
• Restroom 
• Maintenance  
• In Community Park 
o Archery Range 
o Playground 
o Basketball courts 
o Mountain bike trail 
o Futsal court 
 

 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  4847  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.6  |  RECREATION FACILITIES ASSESSMENT
 
 
 
 
Challenges: 
• No shade or bleachers for spectators 
• No means of controlling access to fields. 
• One (1) restroom building to serve entire park. Distance of over 500 feet to restroom from 
a number of fields. 
• No field lights 
• No netting behind goals allowing stray balls to carry beyond playing surface. 
• No accessible routes to fields. 
• Parking lot is in ok condition. 
 
Coke Gonzales Field (4211 Converse Ave.): 
 
   
 
   
 
• One (1) diamonds athletic field 
o Skinned infield 
o No lights 
• In Martin Luther King Jr. Park 
o Four (4) pickleball courts  
o Playground 
 
Challenges: 
• No shade or bleachers for spectators. 
• No field lights. 
 
 
 
 
• Backstop is close to the intersection of 2 streets. 
• Transient population creates an issue for maintenance and scheduling. 
• Scoreboard needs replacement. 
 
 
Dunbar Field (S. Lions Park Dr.): 
 
• One (1) diamond athletic field 
o Skinned infield 
o Lights 
• In Lions Park 
o Sloan Lake with beach 
o Playground 
o Botanic Gardens 
o Kiwanis Community House 
o Amphitheatre 
o Aquatic Center 
Challenges: 
• No shade for spectators. 
• Spectator seating is not accessible. 
• Field lighting is in poor condition and does not have cut off for uplight. 
• Field needs infield lip removed. 
• Outfield fence is wooden and in disrepair. 
• Parking lot is in poor condition. 
• Restrooms and concessions do not meet ADA compliance. 
 
 
Powers Baseball Field (Windmill Ave.): 
 
 
 
• One (1) diamond athletic field 
o Artificial turf infield 
o Lights 
o Concessions 

 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  5049  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.6  |  RECREATION FACILITIES ASSESSMENT
 
 
 
 
o Restrooms 
• Adjacent to Cheyenne Jr. Baseball Complex 
 
Powers Field Facility Amenities 
(“X” = Has) 
Parking Spaces X 
Restrooms X 
Benches/Seating X 
Picnic Tables X 
Drinking Fountain X 
Ballfields (Baseball/Softball) 1 
Trailheads/access point X 
Connected to Greenway X 
Bicycle or Pedestrian Path X 
Concessions X 
 
Challenges: 
• Parking lot needs sealed and striped 
 
Pioneer Park Baseball Field (1331 Talbot Ct.): 
 
 
 
• One (1) Diamond athletic field 
o Artificial turf infield 
o Lights 
• In Pioneer Park 
o Playground 
 
Pioneer Park  Facility Amenities 
(“X” = Has) 
Parking Spaces X 
Restrooms X 
Drinking Fountain X 
Ballfields (Baseball/Softball) 1 
Concessions X 
Sheets of Ice X 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Challenges: 
• No shade for spectators. 
• Artificial turf needs to be replaced as it is at the end of its useful life. 
• Parking lot is in fair condition. 
 
VFW Pride Park Fields (2816 East 7th St.): 
 
 
 
• Two (2) diamonds athletic field 
o Skinned infields 
o No lights 
• In Pride Park 
o VFW building 
 
VFW Pride Park Facility Amenities 
(“X” = Has)` 
Parking Spaces X 
Portolets Seasonal X 
Benches/Seating X 
Ballfields (Baseball/Softball) 2 
Horseshoes X 
Connected to Greenway X 
 
Challenges: 
• Contract and leasing the field.  Do not recommend continuing.  
• No shade for spectators. 
• Spectator seating is not accessible. 
• No dedicated parking. 
• Fields are near street requiring spectators and participants to cross to utilize fields. 
• Field conditions are poor. 
• Undersized water tap. 
 
Pointe Park (2816 East 7th St.): 
 
• One (1) rectangle athletic field 
o No lights 

 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  5251  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.6  |  RECREATION FACILITIES ASSESSMENT
 
 
 
 
• In Pointe Park 
o Playground 
o Trail 
o Restroom 
o Two (2) basketball courts 
Challenges: 
• Utilized for practices but not developed as an athletic field. 
• No parking adjacent to field. 
 
Romero Park (1317 Parsley Blvd.): 
 
   
 
• One (1) rectangle athletic field 
o No lights 
• In Romero Park 
o Playground 
o Trail 
 
Challenges: 
• Utilized for practices but not developed as an athletic field. 
 
Sun Valley Park (East 12th St.): 
 
   
• One (1) rectangle athletic field 
o No lights 
• In Sun Valley Park 
 
 
 
 
o Playground 
o Sand volleyball court 
o Trail 
o Restroom 
 
Challenges: 
• Utilized for practices but not developed as an athletic field. 
• Parking lot is small and in poor condition. 
 
 
Athletic Field Summary 
 
Type  Number of Fields  Lighted  Artificial Turf 
Diamond  27 12 5 Infield 
Adult (300 ft + fence) 5   
Youth 22   
Rectangular  13 0 0 
Adult (150 ft x 240 ft) 5   
Youth 8 (striped for 24)   
Total  39 12 5 
 
Based on metrics from the NRPA and the population (2023 projection) the City could support the 
following number of facilities: 
• Diamonds (adult)   9.6 
• Diamonds (youth)   19.6 
• Rectangles (adult soccer) 7.0 
• Rectangles (youth soccer) 10.9 (striped for up to 40) 
• Rectangles (misc.)  8.1 
 
Athletic Field Assessment 
• The athletic field surfaces are maintained in good condition.  
• Fencing at the older facilities is failing and needs to be replaced.  Newer facilities have 
installed post and net rather than chain-link.  
• All diamonds could use a concrete mow strip under the fencing for improved 
maintenance and weed control.  
• Many of the athletic complexes do not have adequate parking.   
o The minimum number of parking spaces per field is 50, while the preferred 
number is 75-100.  
o The parking surface is failing or failed at a number of the complexes.  
• The number of fields is adequate to serve Cheyenne, however the lack of lights prohibits 
the fields from being fully utilized in the spring and fall which is the busiest time of the 
year for many of the athletic programs.  
• The artificial turf on the infield at Pioneer Park is in need of replacement. 
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  5453  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.6  |  RECREATION FACILITIES ASSESSMENT
 
 
 
 
• The batting cages have a high operational cost with minimal return.   
• Appropriate maintenance and storage should be located at each of the complexes of 
Brimmer, Cahill, Cheyenne Junior Baseball, Converse, Dutcher and North Cheyenne.   
• Dutcher Field layout does not allow for central concession restrooms.   
• Athletic complexes are not distributed across the City.   
 
 
Indoor Recreation Facilities 
 
In addition to the outdoor facilities and sports complexes, the City owns/manages several indoor 
recreation facilities. These facilities include three event centers and five indoor 
recreation/community centers, including the newly acquired Beast Foundation. The City also 
recently constructed a new gymnastics center, which will serve as a future indoor recreation 
facility. 
 
Indoor Recreation Facility Inventory 
Event Center 
Botanic Gardens 
Cheyenne Ice and Event Center 
City Civic Center 
Kiwanis Community House 
Indoor Facility /Community Center 
Beast Foundation 
Cheyenne Aquatic Center 
Pioneer Park Rec Center 
Youth Activity Community Center 
 
Cheyenne Botanic Gardens: 
The Cheyenne Botanic Gardens is part of the Recreation and Events Department division and 
part of Friends, a non-profit foundation
0F1. The Botanical Gardens offers free admittance to its 
facilities, including the Conservatory, the Paul Smith Children’s Village, and the gardens. 
Additional activities and art workshops are offered, including many cultural activities like Dia de 
los Muertos Press Flower Class and Guatemalan Kite Class. The High Plains Arboretum is part 
of the Cheyenne Urban Forestry and operates as a sub-committee of Fiends, a non-profit of the 
Cheyenne Botanical Gardens. The High Plains Arboretum is on a 62-acre historic site and offers 
educational kiosks. 
 
Cheyenne Aquatics Center (931 Martin Esquibel St.): 
The Cheyenne Aquatic Center is an indoor aquatic center that offers the opportunity for 
membership, daily admission, and participation in programs. It offers amenities such as a lazy 
river, lap pool, diving well with 1m and 3m diving boards, water slides, a rock-climbing wall, 
and basketball hoops
1F 2. 
 
1 Cheyenne Botanic Gardens. Cheyenne Botanic Gardens 
2 Cheyenne Aquatic Center Pool | Cheyenne Aquatic Center | Cheyenne (cheyenneaquatics.com) 
 
 
 
 
  
The general operating hours of the facility are: 
• Monday-Friday 6:00A-9:00P 
• Saturday-Sunday 8:00A-4:30P 
 
Aquatic center amenities include: 
• Main Pool 
o 6-lane, 25-yard pool 
o Stair entry shallow water area 
o Diving well with 1- and 3-meter diving boards 
o Climbing wall 
o Inflatable 
o Run-out water slide 
o Pool temperature of 82 degrees 
• Recreation Pool 
o Zero depth entry with play structure 
o 3 lap lanes 
o 2 basketball goals 
o Lazy river 
o Run-out water slide 
o Pool temperature of 86 degrees 
• Outdoor Spray Park 
o Seasonal facility 
o Interactive water features 
o Playground  
 
Within the Aquatic Center the department offers a number of programs: 
• Water fitness 
• Learn to swim (groups and private) 
• Water walking 
• Rentals 
• Birthday parties 
 
Unique characteristics of the Aquatic Center include: 
• Located across from Frontier Days and on the same property as the Botanic Gardens, Sloan 
Lake and the Kiwanis Community House 
• Originally the Municipal Pool, the facility was renovated and expanded in 2015.   
 
Challenges: 
• The facility is well maintained, however the entry and front desk has limited space for 
checking in people.  Staff has little space to provide resale items.   
• There is not much deck space around the pools with the exception of an area between the 
diving well and the slide tower. 
• There is not a meeting room for training, meetings or birthday parties.  
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  5655  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.6  |  RECREATION FACILITIES ASSESSMENT
 
 
 
 
• Slide tower is in a different space than one of the run-out water slides.  
 
Ice and Events Center (1530 West Lincolnway): 
The Ice and Events Center is a multi-use facility that opened in 2000 and offers activities, 
programs, and special events. Some activities include mini golf, bumper cars, laser tag, ice 
skating, roller skating, and miniature golf. Programs include curling, hockey, and skating
2F 3. The 
facility also has a 17,000 Sq. Ft. Arena that can be used for events like concerts, antique shows, 
trade shows, comedy shows, sporting events, car shows, expos, and wedding receptions
3F4. 
 
The operating hours of the facility vary depending on the activities taking place.   
 
Ice and Events Center amenities include: 
• Ice rink (open from mid-September through mid-March) 
o Seating capacity of 2,000 
• Laser tag 
• Mini golf 
• Arcade 
 
Within the Ice and Events Center, the department offers a number of programs: 
• Ice skating during winter 
• Ice hockey 
• Learn to skate 
• Roller skating during summer 
• Birthday parties 
• Rentals 
 
Challenges: 
• Ice is seasonal and requires the arena to be closed for two weeks to build the ice in fall and 
two weeks to remove in spring.  
• Not a means to cover ice in winter to host large activities.  
• Ventilation is poor in the main arena.  
• Events with alcohol require ending at 11p.m.  
• Need a new Zamboni 
 
Youth Activity and Community Center (1317 Parsley Blvd.): 
David R. Romero Community Park has an indoor Youth Activity Center (YAC) that offers youth 
events, programs, activities, and birthdays 4F
5. The youth activity center also offers an indoor 
pickleball court5F
6. 
 
 
3 City of Cheyenne, Ice and Event Center Cheyenne Ice Arena | Cheyenne | Cheyenne Ice and Events Center 
(cheyenneiceandevents.com) 
4 Cheyenne Presents Ice and Events Center | Cheyenne Presents 
5 Visit Cheyenne Wyoming Romero Park (cheyenne.org) 
6 Pickleheads, 2024. Play Pickleball at Youth Activity and Community Center: Court Information | Pickleheads 
 
 
 
 
YAC amenities include: 
 
• Meeting room 
• Kitchen 
• Gym with two (2) portable basketball goals 
 
Within the YAC the department offers a number of programs: 
• Sports (dodgeball, cornhole, martial arts, pickleball,  
• Fitness (yoga) 
• Youth (summer camp) 
• Rentals 
• Birthday parties 
 
Challenges: 
• Only used for rentals 
• Do not offer additional services beyond the facility, tables and chairs 
• Limited A/V and technical capabilities 
 
Cheyenne Civic Center (510 West 20th St.): 
The Cheyenne Civic Center is a performing arts facility built in 1981. It is in the heart of 
downtown Cheyenne, making it easily accessible and convenient for visitors
6F7. It hosts 
approximately 1,500 people and holds events and shows such as the Cheyenne Symphony 
Orchestra, concerts, Broadway productions, comedy shows, and ballets. The  
Civic Center amenities include: 
• Box office 
• Lobby on the 1st and 2nd floor 
• 1,490 seat capacity theatre with stage 
 
Challenges: 
• Limited concession opportunities 
• No VIP area or section 
 
Kiwanis Community House (4603 Lions Park Dr.): 
The Kiwanis Community House is a rental facility constructed in 2003. Registration for programs 
and activities are accepted at this location.      
 
Kiwanis Community House amenities include: 
• 3,800 square foot room that can be divided into two spaces 
• Kitchen 
 
Challenges: 
• Single room limits activities. 
 
7 Visit Cheyenne Wyoming https://www.cheyenne.org/listing/cheyenne-civic-center/346/ 
 Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment  |  5857  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.6  |  RECREATION FACILITIES ASSESSMENT
 
 
 
 
• Gymnasium not large enough to host leagues.  
• Limited parking.  
 
BEAST Foundation  
Originally used as a church, the building currently is a 28,000 multi-purpose facility. Court space 
is available for basketball, pickleball and volleyball as well as classroom and meeting room 
space. The City took ownership of the facility in spring 2024, and was not part of the assessment 
to date.   
 
Gymnastics Facility 
Cheyenne has provided space for gymnastics and is constructing a new facility to accommodate 
the program. The facility is not part of the assessment.   
 
 
Indoor Recreation Facility Summary 
Based on metrics from the NRPA and the population (2023 projection) the City could support the 
following number of facilities: 
 
• Recreation Center  2.2 
• Community Center  2.2 
• Senior Center   1.3 
• Performance Amphitheatre 1.5 
• Aquatic Center  1.5 
• Ice Rink   1.6 
• Outdoor Pool   2.0 
• Arenas    1.4 
 
Indoor Recreation Facility Assessment 
 
• Compared to similar sized communities, Cheyenne is lacking in indoor recreation space.   
o The recent acquisition of The Beast provides for the only indoor recreation center 
as the other facilities are more typical of community center spaces.   
• Overall, the facilities are maintained in good condition.  
• Investments have been made to the Civic Center and need to continue to maintain its 
place in providing performing arts.  A facility plan should be developed to address the 
aging infrastructure and modern conveniences found in newer facilities.  
 
B*K would recommend the City maintain the existing facilities, and consider how the spaces are 
utilized.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Future Indoor Space Opportunities: 
 
The City should consider inclusion of the following amenities: 
 
• Basketball Courts (four (4), which equates to eight (8) volleyball courts) 
o Some fixed (retractable) spectator seating, opportunity for additional tip- and-roll 
bleachers. 
o Adequate storage. 
o Access to exterior of building via roll up garage door. 
• Concession Area (potentially in conjunction with front desk and/or control point) 
• Indoor Turf 
o Minimum size would allow 7 v 7.   
• Separate Fitness Areas 
o Weights (free weights and pin-select machines) 
o Cardio equipment 
o Functional training area (potentially in conjunction with indoor turf) 
o Group exercise space 
• Meeting Rooms/Classrooms 
o Minimum of 3 spaces 
o Each space to host 15-25 participants 
o Adequate audio visual capabilities. 
 
A facility with these components would allow for the following. 
 
• Ability to house youth basketball program and expand/contract as needed. 
• Ability to expand youth volleyball. 
• Opportunity to host youth basketball and volleyball tournaments. 
• Via tournaments, an increase in positive economic impact. 
• Expansion of fitness offerings and fitness-based programming. 
• Via indoor turf, opportunity to expand revenue and programming opportunities. 
• Expansion of youth and adult programming.   
 
The operational realities of operating a facility with these components, or similar are as follows. 
 
• Increase of full-time staff. 
o Recreation 
o Custodial and Maintenance 
• Increase of part-time staff. 
• Increase in revenue generation. 
 
 
 
 
 
59  |  Appendix A. Existing Conditions Assessment
Appendix C.6  |  RECREATION FACILITIES ASSESSMENT
 
 
 
 
Other Facilities 
 
Johnson Swimming Pool (303 E. 8th St.) 
 
The Johnson Swimming Pool is an outdoor seasonal aquatic facility that is over 60 years old 
located at Lincoln Park7F
8. The pool is a 25-yard heated lap pool.  
 
Amenities include: 
 
• Five (5) lap lanes 
• Diving board 
 
Challenges: 
• Parking is limited.   
• Access is adequate, however the rail yard to the north and highway to the west are 
barriers as well as no sidewalks.   
• Limited recreational value with no play features or zero depth.   
• Mechanical and structural failures have closed the pool for repairs and considerable 
investment.  
• As with many communities, hiring lifeguards is a challenge.   
 
Airport Golf Course (4801 Central Ave.) 
 
• 6,128-yard par 70 18-hole golf course 
• Pro shop 
• Driving range 
• Cart rentals 
• Private lessons and junior golf is offered 
• Course is available for tournaments 
 
Kingham Prairie View Golf Course (3601 Windmill Rd.) 
 
• 3,080-yard par 36 9-hole golf course 
• Driving range 
• Cart rentals 
 
Challenges: 
• Stigma of a municipal course 
• Marketing the course 
• Providing food and beverage service 
 
8 Visit Cheyenne Wyoming Johnson Pool (cheyenne.org) 