2101 O’Neil Ave., Room 205 
Cheyenne, WY 82001 
(307) 433-9730
cheyennecity.org/dda
Below are answers and clarifications based on councilmember and public questions at the DDA Plan of 
Development public hearing on February 10, 2025.  
Aldrich: Question about sidewalk repair and CIG grants. 
Answer: CIG and FIP grants are summarized on page 64 of the plan. Perhaps an addition to the implementation 
table for “Continuation of Grant Programs” and “Enhance Walkabilitiy”  is warranted.    
Aldrich: Question about surveying the property owners in the district to see if they are aligned with the plan. 
How many businesses contacts are you having with business and property owners per month?  
Answer: This information is challenging to clearly identify.  It is estimated that 10-25 property owners were 
directly contacted monthly by DDA staff as part of day-to-day activities or requests for information. Document 
drafts were shared with the DDA Board, Planning Commission, Governing Body, people who had signed up for 
project alerts on the DDA Plan Update webpage, and partners like the Downtown Business Collective.   
Emmons: Question about attendance at all meetings. 
Answer:  
In-Person events: 
• December 2023 Joint Work Session – 11
• January 2024 Business and Property Owner Meeting – 17
• April 2024 Visioning Events: 48 people (sign-in sheet attached)
• June 2024 Choices Events: 200+ attendees across the 3 days (no sign-ins from the booth drop-ins)
• Draft Plan Events (sign-in sheet attached) – Property Owners - 28; Public – 30
MEMO
To: Honorable Mayor and members of the City Council  
From: Charles W. Bloom, Planning and Development Director 
Date: February 18, 2025   
Subject: Requested information by council members and the public from the February 10, 2025, Plan of 
Development public hearing. 
Questionnaires:  
• Q1| Challenges and Opp (Phase 1) – 351 responses  
o 125 responses noted they own property in DT  
• Q2| Visioning – 410 responses  
o 148 responses noted they own property in DT  
Eblasts 
The gray number to the left is the number of subscribers/recipients, the green percentage is the amount of 
people who opened the email, and the blue percentage to the right is the click rate (who clicked on the link in 
the email).  
 
 
Laybourn: Does the DDA have an email address for all of the property owners that pay the mill levy?  
Answer: No, the City does not have email addresses. It is a database we continue to populate. We have done 
social media posts requesting property owners and businesses provide email addresses. We have received 
approximately 20 addresses as of those posts. 
Laybourn: Questions about Work Plan timeline and snow removal.   
Answer: The consultants and staff have not identified a specific date for Work Plan development but anticipate 
setting that in the near future. This will include items such as snow removal.  Snow removal has also been added 
to the Implementation Matrix on pages 72 and 73.   
  

Emmons:  Question about communicating to constituents.   
Answer: This was answered verbally at the hearing as falling not the “Public Perception” element of the 
implementation matrix. This also falls into categories regarding “Website Update” and Resource Repository” and 
day-to-day operations in making contact with property owners.    
Public Comments: 
Astrid: She had general statements about pedestrian counts and not being engaged in the process.  She also had 
concerns with sex offenders downtown.   
Answer: Astrid has attended public engagement meetings and spoke directly to Cameron Gloss, myself, and 
other staff in length regarding the plan. Regarding pedestrian counts, we have discussed this with the MPO 
before and have run into conflicts with other travel modes such as bikes and cars that inflate the count. We will 
continue the discussion with them. 
Counts:   
According to the below mapping and research tools, a total of 56 sex offenders reside in the Downtown 
District. 
• 19 reside at the County jail at 1901 Thomes Avenue 
• 7 reside at the Cheyenne Transitional Center at 322 17th Street 
• 25 reside at the Pioneer Hotel at 209 W 17th Street  
• 5 reside in individual dwelling units within the district including in upper floor residential that is 
above shops, like a coffee shop (locations not detailed here). 
Map Resources:  
Map of distance separation requirements: https://maps.laramiecounty.com/sor/ 
Sex offender location tool (From Laramie County Sherriff’s Department Website: 
https://www.icrimewatch.net/results.php?AgencyID=55437&RegSubmit=0&AddrStreet=3839+E+Lincoln
way&AddrCity=Cheyenne&AddrState=51&AddrZip=82001&AddrZipPlus=82001&radius=2&whichaddr1=
home_addr%7Ctemp_addr&whichaddr2=work_addr%7Cvolunteer_addr&whichaddr6=secondary_addr
&button=Update (Set the search from the parking garage at 3839 E Lincolnway and set radius to 2 miles 
to cover the district.  Other results east and west of downtown may appear. Disregard results east of 
Evans Avenue, west of Snyder Avenue, and north of 24th Street as they are outside the district boundary.)  
Glen Garrett:  – Questions about what changed between the DDA Board and PC meetings.   
Answer: See the information on the following pages.  
 
 
  
 
Page 38, addition of the following language, “Hynds Building and “The Hole” . Streamline the development process and explore a public-
private partnership within legal constraints to restore the historic 1916 Hynds Building and redevelop both the building and the adjacent 
vacant lot known as “The Hole” for economic development and community revitalization. Support urban renewal efforts, including the 
use of TIF funding, to aid in the redevelopment of these properties. 

 
 
Page 43, removal of a parking area from the “Walkability From Parking” map (Westby Edge townhouse location) 
 

 
 
Page 43, addition of the following language: “The Downtown Strategic Parking Plan (2017) encourages on-street parking turnover without 
penalizing infrequent visitors. The parking strategy incentivizes long-term users to utilize the parking garages rather than the on-street 
parking spaces. The Plan recommends maximizing use of existing on-street spaces and parking garages prior to a 3rd parking garage 
being considered. 
 

 
 
Page 51, addition of the following language: “Keeping the day-to-day management of Downtown projects within budget and time 
constraints will rely on creation of a Work Plan. The Work Plan is intended to build upon the guidance provided within the Action Plan and 
Implementation Matrix and provide a greater degree of specificity by assigning project management responsibilities, assigning project 
costs and budgets, design and construction scheduling, and project deadlines and milestones. It is anticipated that the Work Plan will be 
developed by the DDA staff, with assistance from the DDA Board and community partners, and be updated on an as needed basis.” 
 

 
 
Page 72 and 73, adding to the implementation matrix “Enhance Downtown Parking” and “Public Perception as shown below. 
 
 
 
 
 
