2101 O’Neil Ave., Room 205
Cheyenne, WY 82001
(307) 433-97
30
chey
ennecity.org/dda 
BACKGROUND:
This memorandum summarizes recent actions regarding the Plan of Development and seeks to answer 
questions and provide clarity based on comments received since the public hearing. 
On February 10, 2025, a public hearing was held. At the public hearing several questions and comments were 
raised by citizens and councilmembers. Thos questions are answered in this memorandum. On February 18, 
2025, the plan was further discussed at the Public Services Committee (PSC) meeting. DDA board members 
Roybal, Belotti (Walters), Bau and Volk and staff and Cameron Gloss with Logan Simpson were present. 
This memorandum addresses unanswered public hearing comments and questions, changes authorized by DDA 
and Planning Commission motion, and a proposed substitution based on councilmember comments. 
RESPONSE TO PUBLIC HEARING COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS:
Below is a summary of comments made at the Governing Body public hearing on February 10, 2025, followed by 
a section showing the edits based on the DDA Board and Planning Commission’s recommendations on January 
21, 2025. 
Aldrich: Question about sidewalk repair and CIG grants.
Answer: CIG and FIP grants are summarized on page 64 of the plan. Perhaps an addition to the 
implementation table for “Continuation of Grant Programs” and “Enhance Walkability” is warranted 
(Note: These are incorporated in the substitute).   
Aldrich: Question about surveying the property owners in the district to see if they are aligned with the 
plan. How many businesses contacts are you having with business and property owners per month? 
Answer: This information is challenging to clearly identify.  It is estimated that 10-25 property owners 
were directly contacted monthly by DDA staff as part of day-to-day activities or requests for 
information. Document drafts were shared with the DDA Board, Planning Commission, Governing Body, 
people who had signed up for project alerts on the DDA Plan Update webpage, and partners like the 
Downtown Business Collective.  
MEMO
To: Honorable Mayor and members of the City Council
From: Charles W. Bloom, Planning and Development Director
Date: February 21, 2025  
Subject: DDA Plan of Development Update 
• December 2023 Joint Work Session – 11
• January 2024 Business and Property Owner Meeting – 17
• April 2024 Visioning Events: 48 people (sign-in sheet)
• June 2024 Choices Events: 200+ attendees across the 3 days (no sign-ins from the booth 
drop-ins)
• Draft Plan Events (sign-in sheet) – Property Owners - 28; Public – 30
Questionnaires: 
 Q1| Challenges and Opp (Phase 1) – 351 responses
o 125 responses noted they own property in DT
 Q2| Visioning – 410 responses
o 148 responses noted they own property in DT
Eblasts
In-Person events: 
Emmons: Question about attendance at all meetings. 
Answer:
Laybourn: Does the DDA have an email address for all of the property owners that pay the mill levy? 
Answer: No, the City does not have email addresses. It is a database we continue to populate. We have 
done social media posts requesting property owners and businesses provide email addresses. We have 
received approximately 20 addresses as of those posts.
Laybourn: Questions about Work Plan timeline and snow removal.  
Answer: The consultants and staff have not identified a specific date for Work Plan development but 
anticipate setting that in the near future. This will include items such a snow removal.  Snow removal 
has also been added to the Implementation Matrix on pages 72 and 73.  
Emmons:  Question about communicating to constituents.  
Answer: This was answered verbally at the hearing as falling not the “Public Perception” element of the 
implementation matrix. This also falls into categories regarding “Website Update” and “Resource 
Repository” and day-to-day operations in making contact with property owners.  
Public Comments:
Astrid: She had general statements about pedestrian counts and not being engaged in the process.  She 
also had concerns with sex offenders downtown.  
Answer: Astrid has attended public engagement meetings and spoke directly to Cameron Gloss, Director 
Bloom, and other staff in length regarding the plan. Regarding pedestrian counts, we have discussed this 
with the MPO before and have run into conflicts with other travel modes such as bikes and cars that 
inflate the count. We will continue the discussion with them.
Counts:  
According to the below mapping and research tools, a total of 56 sex offenders reside in the 
Downtown District.
 19 reside at the County jail at 1901 Thomes Avenue
 7 reside at the Cheyenne Transitional Center at 322 17th Street
 25 reside at the Pioneer Hotel at 209 W 17th Street 
 5 reside in individual dwelling units within the district including in upper floor residential 
that is above shops, like a coffee shop (locations not detailed here).
Map Resources: 
Map of distance separation requirements: https://maps.laramiecounty.com/sor/
Sex offender location tool (From Laramie County Sherriff’s Department Website:
https://www.icrimewatch.net/results.php?AgencyID=55437&RegSubmit=0&AddrStreet=3839+E
+Lincolnway&AddrCity=Cheyenne&AddrState=51&AddrZip=82001&AddrZipPlus=82001&radius=
2&whichaddr1=home_addr%7Ctemp_addr&whichaddr2=work_addr%7Cvolunteer_addr&which
addr6=secondary_addr&button=Update (Set the search from the parking garage at 3839 E 
Lincolnway and set radius to 2 miles to cover the district.  Other results east and west of 
downtown may appear. Disregard results east of Evans Avenue, west of Snyder Avenue, and 
north of 24th Street as they are outside the district boundary.) 
Glen Garrett:  – Questions about what changed as a result of the motion between the public hearing and the 
DDA Board and PC meetings.  
Answer:  Please see the attached Summary of Changes where changes are highlighted by orange rectangles. 
DDA AND PLANNING COMMISSION DIRECTED CHANGES 
The Downtown Development Authority Board and Planning Commission reviewed this item at a joint meeting on 
January 21, 2025, and recommended approval of the Plan with subject to the following modifications: 
1. Add language regarding parking and correct “Walkability from Parking” map. 
2. Add language regarding “The Hole” and the importance of its redevelopment to the downtown. 
3. Add language regarding administration and the creation of a work plan regarding implementation of 
Plan goals. 
The modifications are highlighted in the attached Summary of Changes with orange rectangles. 
The Planning Commission was presented these changes at their February 18, 2025 meeting and the Downtown 
Development Board at their February 20, 2025 and were accepting of them. 
SUBSTITUTE ATTACHMENT:
At PSC it was noted that two added action items, “Continuation of Grant Programs” and Walkability,” these 
additions propose adding those action items to pages 29, 31, 43, 61, 70, and 71 and are highlighted in the 
attached Summary of Changes with green rectangles. These were added to the matrix to recognize the existing 
grant programs and the sidewalk hazard reduction program.
Additionally, several councilmembers requested amendments to the action statements on page 43, specifically 
to replace references to “metered parking” and incorporate language regarding “parking space delineation.” 
These changes, highlighted in the attached Summary of Changes by green rectangles, stem from a pending 
ordinance to repeal the recently approved paid parking districts. The amendments were partly to avoid potential 
misinterpretations of “metered parking,” which can include various systems, such as individual meters, pay-and-
display stations, digital smart meters, app-based zone systems (what was what the recently approved paid 
parking ordinance aimed to establish), and time-limited zones (the current system in Cheyenne). To further 
enhance clarity, the “Enhance Downtown Parking” action statement on page 43 was revised to address parking 
space striping and delineation and recognize potential funding challenges.  
Also modified in the substitute is the location and addition of additional web links on the “Links” to be before 
Appendix 1 and the addition of Appendix 2 (32 pages) which includes all engagement summaries (Phase 1 – 4).
The Planning Commission was informed of these changes at their February 18, 2025, meeting and the 
Downtown Development Board at their February 20, 2025, and were accepting of the substitute. 
ATTACHMENT:
1. Summary of Changes
 
Page 38, addition of the following language, “Hynds Building and “The Hole”. Streamline the development process and explore a 
public-private partnership within legal constraints to restore the historic 1916 Hynds Building and redevelop both the building and the 
adjacent vacant lot known as “The Hole” for economic development and community revitalization. Support urban renewal efforts, 
including the use of TIF funding, to aid in the redevelopment of these properties.

Page 43, removal of a parking area from the “Walkability From Parking” map (Westby Edge townhouse location)

Page 43, addition of the following language: “The Downtown Strategic Parking Plan (2017) encourages on-street parking turnover 
without penalizing infrequent visitors. The parking strategy incentivizes long-term users to utilize the parking garages rather than the 
on-street parking spaces. The Plan recommends maximizing use of existing on-street spaces and parking garages prior to a 3rd 
parking garage being considered.” Note: A modification has been proposed based on feedback received at the public hearing and 
Public Services Committee.  Seep proposed modification on the next page.  

Included in substitute: Page 43 (left box), modification of the added language as follows: “In 2016, Cheyenne MPO completed the 
Cheyenne Municipal Area Parking Study which inventoried parking, as well as assessed the current parking management strategy. 
Building off this plan, in 2017 the City completed the City of Cheyenne Downtown Strategic Parking Plan which includes a limited 
parking supply/demand assessment and identifies both short and long-term goals for the development of a forward-thinking and 
holistically managed public parking system. Following the direction from these two plans, City Council approved the creation of a 
paid on-street parking districts program in July 2024.The paid program will be under the City’s parking division, as part of the 
Cheyenne Police Department. 
The Downtown Strategic Parking Plan (2017) encourages on-street parking turnover without penalizing infrequent
visitors. The parking strategy incentivizes long-term users to utilize the parking garages rather than the on-street parking spaces. 
The Plan recommends maximizing use of existing on-street spaces and parking garages prior to a 3rd parking garage being 
considered. 
Included in substitute: Page 43 (right box), “Enhance Downtown Parking. Support additional areas for diagonal parking located 
away from high use pedestrian areas. Stripe on-street parking stalls Downtown. Increase the visibility of parking spaces by striping 
parking stalls where appropriate and when fiscally feasible. Support the development of metered parking Downtown where 
appropriate. Encourage employees and visitors to utilize existing lots and structured parking in accordance with the Metropolitan 
Planning Organization’s 2017 Downtown Strategic Parking Management Plan. Work with business and property owners to explore 
opportunities for public/private partnerships for employee and visitor parking.”

Included in substitute: Implementation Matrix page 72, and 73 , This reflects the changes made for the action statement on page 
43. “Enhance Downtown Parking. Support additional areas for diagonal parking located away from high use pedestrian areas. Stripe 
on-street parking stalls Downtown.  Increase the visibility of parking spaces by striping parking stalls where appropriate and when 
fiscally feasible. Support the development of metered parking Downtown where appropriate. Encourage employees and visitors to 
utilize existing lots and structured parking in accordance with the Metropolitan Planning Organization’s 2017 Downtown Strategic 
Parking Management Plan. Work with business and property owners to explore opportunities for public/private partnerships for 
employee and visitor parking.” Note: this has been relocated to line seven of page two of the implementation matrix for formating 
purposes. Implementation items have been slightly reordered throughought but remain unchanged. 

Page 51, addition of the following language: “Keeping the day-to-day management of Downtown projects within budget and time 
constraints will rely on creation of a Work Plan. The Work Plan is intended to build upon the guidance provided within the Action Plan 
and Implementation Matrix and provide a greater degree of specificity by assigning project management responsibilities, assigning 
project costs and budgets, design and construction scheduling, and project deadlines and milestones. It is anticipated that the Work 
Plan will be developed by the DDA staff, with assistance from the DDA Board and community partners, and be updated on an as 
needed basis.”


To be included in substitute: Page 68, the “Links” page was moved from page 74 to 68 (Before the Implementation Matrix, 
Appendix 1) and subsequent pages were renumbered accordingly.  

To be included in substitute: Page 71 and 72, addition of two implementation matrix items, “Walkability. Evaluate and implement 
strategies or programs to enhance public safety and pedestrian connectivity through sidewalk repair assistance programs, 
considering factors such as community needs, funding availability, and program effectiveness.” and “Continuation of Grant 
Programs. Administer grant programs that encourage private investment, facilitate redevelopment, and preserve the historical 
character and scale of downtown, while considering community needs, funding availability, and program effectiveness.” to recognize 
existing grant programs and the present sidewalk repair/replacement assistance program. These are both listed as immediate 
priority 1 items since they are ongoing.

To be included in substitute: Page 29, the action statement for “Walkability,” which was added to the Implementation Matrix, has 
been added here. It reads as follows, “Walkability. Evaluate and implement strategies or programs to enhance public safety and 
pedestrian connectivity through sidewalk repair assistance programs, considering factors such as community needs, funding 
availability, and program effectiveness.”

To be included in substitute: Page 31, the action statement for “Continuation of Grant Programs,” which was added to the 
Implementation Matrix, has been added here. It reads as follows, “Continuation of Grant Programs. Administer grant programs 
that encourage private investment, facilitate redevelopment, and preserve the historical character and scale of downtown, while 
considering community needs, funding availability, and program effectiveness.”

“
To be included in substitute: Page 61, this “Walkability” and “Continuation of Grant Programs” action items to “Foundational” 
category. This modification is the result of adding the new items to the implementation matrix.  

To be included in substitute: Page 76, Appendix 2 was added. Appendix 2 is 32 pages and includes all engagement summaries 
(Phase 1 – 4). This can be found on the Plan of Development website on Konveio at www.cheyenneddaplan.com and is included in 
the proposed Resolution Attachment A substitute.   
