 
EA20241EnrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2023) Page 1 of 10 
Document X20-10636 
 
Enterprise Enrollment State and Local 
Enterprise Enrollment number 
(Microsoft to complete) 65145958 Framework ID  
(if applicable)       
Previous Enrollment number 
(Reseller to complete) 7690328   
 
This Enrollment must be attached to a signature form to be valid. 
This Microsoft Enterprise Enrollment is entered into between the entities as identified in the signature form 
as of the effective date. Enrolled Affiliate represents and warrants it is the same Customer, or an Affiliate of 
the Customer, that entered into the Enterprise Agreement identified on the program signature form. 
This Enrollment consists of: (1) these terms and conditions, (2) the terms of the Enterprise Agreement 
identified on the signature form, (3) the Product Selection Form, (4) the Product Terms, (5) any 
Supplemental Contact Information Form, Previous Agreement/Enrollment form , and other forms  that may 
be required, and (6) any order submitted under this Enrollment. This Enrollment may only be entered into 
under a 2011 or later Enterprise Agreement.   By entering into this Enrollment, Enrolled Affiliate agrees to  
be bound by the terms and conditions of the Enterprise Agreement. 
All terms used but not defined are located at http://www.microsoft.com/licensing/contracts. In the event of 
any conflict the terms of this Agreement control. 
Effective date.  If Enrolled Affiliate is renewing Software Assurance or Subscription Licenses from one or 
more previous Enrollments or agreements, then the effective date will be the day after the first prior 
Enrollment or agreement expires or terminates. If this Enrollment is renewed, the effective date of the 
renewal term will be the day after the Expiration Date of the initial term.  Otherwise, the effective date will 
be the date this Enrollment is accepted by Microsoft.  Any reference to “anniversary d ate” refers to the 
anniversary of the effective date of the applicable initial or renewal term for  each year this Enrollment is in 
effect. 
Term.  The initial term of th is Enrollment will expire on the last day of the month, 36 full calendar months 
from the effective date  of the initial term .  The renewal term will expire 36 full calendar months after the 
effective date of the renewal term. 
Terms and Conditions 
1. Definitions. 
Terms used but not defined in this Enrollment will have the definition in the Enterprise Agreement.  The 
following definitions are used in this Enrollment: 
“Additional Product” means any Product identified as such in the Product Terms and chosen by Enrolled 
Affiliate under this Enrollment. 
“Community” means the community consisting of one or more of the following: (1) a Government, (2) an 
Enrolled Affiliate using eligible Government Community Cloud Services to provide solutions to a 
Government or a qualified member of the Community, or (3) a Customer with Customer Data that is subject 
to Government regulations for which Customer determines and Microsoft agrees that the use of 
Government Community Cloud Services is appropriate to meet Customer’s regulatory requirements.  
 
EA20241EnrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2023) Page 2 of 10 
Document X20-10636 
 
Membership in the Community is ultimately at Microsoft’s discretion, which may vary by Government 
Community Cloud Service. 
“Enterprise Online Service” means any Online Service designated as an Enterprise Online Service in the 
Product Terms  and chosen by Enrolled Affiliate under this Enrollment.  Enterprise Online Services are 
treated as Online Services, except as noted. 
“Enterprise Product” means any Desktop Platform Product that Microsoft designates as an Enterprise 
Product in the Product Terms and chosen by Enrolled Affiliate under this Enrollment.  Enterprise Products 
must be licensed for all Qualified Devices and Qualified Users on an Enterprise -wide basis under this 
program. 
“Expiration Date” means the date upon which the Enrollment expires. 
“Federal Agency” means a bureau, office, agency, department or other entity of the United States 
Government. 
“Government” means a Federal Agency, State/Local Entity, or Tribal Entity acting in its governmental 
capacity. 
“Government Community Cloud Services” means Microsoft Online Services that are provisioned in 
Microsoft’s multi-tenant data centers for exclusive use by or for the Community and offered in accordance 
with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication 800 -145.  Microsoft 
Online Services that are Government Community Cloud Services are designated as such in the Use Rights 
and Product Terms. 
“Industry Device” (also known as line of business device) means any device that: (1) is not useable in its 
deployed configuration as a general purpose personal computing device (such as a personal computer), a 
multi-function server, or a commercially viable substitute for one of these systems; and (2) only employs an 
industry or task-specific software program (e.g. a computer -aided design program used by an architect or 
a point of sale program) (“Industry Program”).  The device may include features and functions derived from 
Microsoft software or third -party software.  If the device performs desktop functions (such as email, word 
processing, spreadsheets, database, network or Internet browsing, or scheduling, or personal finance), 
then the desktop functions:  (1) may only be used for the purpose of supporting the Industry Program 
functionality; and (2) must be technically integrated with the Industry Program or employ technically 
enforced policies or architecture to operate only when used with the Industry Pro gram functionality. 
“Managed Device” means any device on which any Affiliate in the Enterprise directly or indirectly controls 
one or more operating system environments. Examples of Managed Devices can be found in the Product 
Terms. 
“Qualified Device” means any device that is used by or for the benefit of Enrolled Affiliate’s Enterprise and 
is: (1) a personal desktop computer, portable computer, workstation, or similar device capable of running 
Windows Pro locally (in a physical or virtual operating system environment), or (2) a device used to access 
a virtual desktop infrastructure (“VDI”).  Qualified Devices do not include  any device that is: (1) designated 
as a server and not used as a personal computer, (2) an Industry Device, or (3) not a Managed Device.  At 
its option, the Enrolled Affiliate may designate any device excluded above (e.g., Industry Device) that is 
used by or for the benefit of the Enrolled Affiliate’s Enterprise as a Qualified Device for all or a subset of 
Enterprise Products or Online Services the Enrolled Affiliate has selected. 
“Qualified User” means a person (e.g., employee, consultant, contingent staff) who: (1) is a user of a 
Qualified Device, or (2) accesses any server software requiring an Enterprise Product Client Access 
License or any Enterprise Online Service.  It does no t include a person who accesses server software or 
an Online Service solely under a License identified in the Qualified User exemptions in the Product Terms. 
“Reseller” means an entity authorized by Microsoft to resell Licenses under this program and engaged by 
an Enrolled Affiliate to provide pre- and post-transaction assistance related to this agreement; 
“Reserved License” means for an Online Service identified as eligible for true -ups in the Product Terms, 
the License reserved by Enrolled Affiliate prior to use and for which Microsoft will make the Online Se rvice 
available for activation. 
 
EA20241EnrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2023) Page 3 of 10 
Document X20-10636 
 
"State/Local Entity" means (1) any agency of a state or local government in the United States, or (2) any 
United States county, borough, commonwealth, city, municipality, town, township, special purpose district, 
or other similar type of governmental instr umentality established by the laws of Customer’s state and 
located within Customer’s state’s jurisdiction and geographic boundaries.  
“Tribal Entity” means a federally recognized  tribal entity performing tribal governmental functions and 
eligible for funding and services from the U.S. Department of Interior by virtue of its status as an Indian 
tribe. 
“Use Rights” means, with respect to any licensing program, the use rights or terms of service for each 
Product and version published for that licensing program at the Volume Licensing Site and updated from 
time to time. The Use Rights include the Product -Specific License Terms, the License Model terms, the 
Universal License Terms, the Data Protection Terms, and the Other Legal Terms. The Use Rights 
supersede the terms of any end user license agreement (on -screen or otherwise) that accompanies a 
Product. 
“Volume Licensing Site” means http://www.microsoft.com/licensing/contracts or a successor site. 
2. Order requirements. 
a. Minimum order requirements.  Enrolled Affiliate’s Enterprise must have a minimum of 250 
Qualified Users or Qualified Devices.  The initial order must include at least 250 Licenses for 
Enterprise Products or Enterprise Online Services. 
(i) Enterprise commitment.  Enrolled Affiliate  must order enough Licenses to cover all 
Qualified Users or Qualified Devices, depending on the License Type, with one or more 
Enterprise Products or a mix of Enterprise Products and the corresponding Enterprise 
Online Services (as long as all Qualified Devices not covered by a License are only used 
by users covered with a user License). 
(ii) Enterprise Online Services  only.  If no Enterprise Product is ordered,  then Enrolled 
Affiliate need only maintain at least 250 Subscription Licenses  for Enterprise Online 
Services. 
b. Additional Products.  Upon satisfying the minimum order requirements above, Enrolled 
Affiliate may order Additional Products. 
c. Use Rights for Enterprise Products.  For Enterprise Products, if a new Product version has 
more restrictive use rights than the version that is current at the start of the applicable initial or 
renewal term of the Enrollment, those more restrictive use rights will not apply to Enrolled 
Affiliate’s use of that Product during that term. 
d. Country of usage.  Enrolled Affiliate must specify the countries where Licenses will be used 
on its initial order and on any additional orders. 
e. Resellers.  Enrolled Affiliate must choose and maintain a Reseller authorized in the United 
States. Enrolled Affiliate will acquire its Licenses through its chosen Reseller. Orders must be 
submitted to the Reseller who will transmit the order to Microsoft. The Reseller and Enrolled 
Affiliate determine pricing and payment terms as between them, and Microsoft will invoice the 
Reseller based on those terms. Throughout this Agreement the term “price” refers to reference 
price. Resellers and other third parties do not have authority to bind or impose any obligation 
or liability on Microsoft. 
f. Adding Products. 
(i) Adding new Products not previously ordered .  New Enterprise Products or Enterprise 
Online Services may be added at any time by contacting a Microsoft Account Manager or 
Reseller.  New Additional Products, other than Online Services, may be used if an order is 
placed in the month the Product is first used.  For Additional Products that are Online 
Services, an initial order for the Online Service is required prior to use. 
 
EA20241EnrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2023) Page 4 of 10 
Document X20-10636 
 
(ii) Adding Licenses for previously ordered Products.   Additional Licenses for previously 
ordered Products other than Online Services may be added at any time but must be 
included in the next true-up order.  Additional Licenses for Online Services must be ordered 
prior to use, unless the Online Services are (1) identified as eligible for true -up in the 
Product Terms or (2) included as part of other Licenses. 
g. True-up requirements.  Enrolled Affiliate must submit an annual true -up order that accounts 
for any changes since the initial order or last order.  If there are no changes, then an update 
statement must be submitted instead of a true-up order. 
(i) Enterprise Products.  For Enterprise Products,  Enrolled Affiliate must determine the 
number of Qualified Devices and Qualified Users (if ordering user -based Licenses) at the 
time the true-up order is placed and must order additional Licenses for all Qualified Devices 
and Qualified Users that are not al ready covered by existing Licenses, including any 
Enterprise Online Services. 
(ii) Additional Products.  For Additional Products that have been previously ordered  under 
this Enrollment , Enrolled Affiliate must determine the maximum number of Additional 
Products used since the latter of the initial order, the last true -up order, or the prior 
anniversary date and submit a true-up order that accounts for any increase. 
(iii) Online Services.  For Online Services identified as eligible for true -up in the Product 
Terms, Enrolled Affiliate may place a reservation order for the additional Licenses prior to 
use and payment may be deferred until the next true -up order.  Microsoft will provide a 
report of Reserved Licenses  ordered but not yet invoiced  to Enrolled Affiliate and its 
Reseller.  Reserved Licenses will be invoiced retrospectively to the month in which they 
were ordered. 
(iv) Subscription License reductions.  Enrolled Affiliate may reduce the quantity of 
Subscription Licenses at the Enrollment anniversary date on a prospective basis if 
permitted in the Product Terms, as follows: 
1) For Subscription Licenses that are part of an Enterprise-wide purchase, Licenses may 
be reduced if the total quantity of Licenses and Software Assurance for an applicable 
group meets or exceeds the quantity of Qualified Devices and Qualified Users (if 
ordering user-based Licenses) identified on the Product Selection Form, and includes 
any additional Qualified Devices and Qualified Users added in any prior true-up orders.  
Step-up Licenses do not count towards this total count. 
2) For Enterprise Online Services in a given Product pool that are not a part of an 
Enterprise-wide purchase, Licenses can be reduced as long as (a) the initial order 
minimum requirements are maintained  and (b) all then -active users of each Online 
Service are included the total quantity of Licenses remaining after the reduction.  An 
Enrolled Affiliate may reduce Licenses for Online Services on or before the Enrollment 
anniversary date and place a reservation order for such licenses within 90 days after 
the anniversary date; however, any licenses ordered as describe d in this section will 
be invoiced to the Enrolled Affiliate for the time  period the licenses were made 
available. 
3) For Additional Products available as Subscription Licenses, Enrolled Affiliate may 
reduce the Licenses.  If the License count is reduced to zero, then Enrolled Affiliate’s 
use of the applicable Subscription License will be cancelled. 
Invoices will be adjusted to reflect any reductions in Subscription Licenses at the true -up 
order Enrollment anniversary date and effective as of such date. 
(v) Update statement.  An update statement must be submitted instead of a true -up order if, 
since the initial order or last true -up order, Enrolled Affiliate’s Enterprise: (1) has not 
changed the number of Qualified Devices and Qualified Users licensed with Enterprise 
Products or Enterprise Online Services; and (2) has not increased its usage of Additi onal 
 
EA20241EnrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2023) Page 5 of 10 
Document X20-10636 
 
Products.  This update statement must be signed by Enrolled Affiliat e’s authorized 
representative. 
(vi) True-up order period.  The true -up order or update statement must be received by 
Microsoft between 60 and 30 days prior to each Enrollment anniversary date.  The third -
year true-up order or update statement is due within 30 days prior to the Expiration Date, 
and any license reservations within this 30 day period will not be accepted. Enrolled Affiliate 
may submit true -up orders more often to account for increases in Product usage, but an 
annual true-up order or update statement must still be submitted durin g the annual order 
period. 
(vii) Late true-up order.  If the true -up order or update statement  is not received when due , 
Microsoft may invoice Reseller for all Reserved L icenses not previously invoiced and 
Subscription License reductions cannot be reported until the following Enrollment 
anniversary date (or at Enrollment renewal, as applicable). 
h. Step-up Licenses.  For Licenses eligible for a step-up under this Enrollment, Enrolled Affiliate 
may step-up to a higher edition or suite as follows: 
(i) For step-up Licenses included on an initial order, Enrolled Affiliate may order according to 
the true-up process. 
(ii) If step -up Licenses are not included on an initial order, Enrolled Affiliate may step -up 
initially by following the process described in the Section titled “Adding new Products not 
previously ordered,” then for additional step -up Licenses, by following the  true-up order 
process. 
i. Clerical errors.  Microsoft may correct clerical errors in this Enrollment, and any documents 
submitted with or under this Enrollment, by providing notice by email and a reasonable 
opportunity for Enrolled Affiliate to object to the correction.  Clerical errors include mi nor 
mistakes, unintentional additions and omissions.  This provision does not apply to material 
terms, such as the identity, quantity or price of a Product ordered. 
j. Verifying compliance.  Microsoft may, in its discretion and at its expense, verify compliance 
with this Enrollment as set forth in the Enterprise Agreement. 
3. Pricing. 
a. Price Levels.  For both the initial and any renewal term Enrolled Affiliate’s Price Level for all 
Products ordered under this Enrollment will be Level “D” throughout the term of the Enrollment. 
b. Setting Prices.  Unless otherwise expressly agreed to by the parties and except  for Online 
Services designated in the Product Terms as being exempt from fixed pricing, Enrolled 
Affiliate’s prices for each Product or Service will be established by its Reseller.  As long as 
Enrolled Affiliate continues to qualify for the same price level, Microsoft’s prices for Resellers 
for each Product or Service ordered will be fixed throughout the applicable initial or renewal 
Enrollment term. Microsoft’s prices  to Reselle rs are reestablished at the beginning of the 
renewal term. 
4. Payment terms. 
For the initial or renewal order, Microsoft will invoice Enrolled Affiliate’s Reseller in three equal annual 
installments.  The first installment will be invoiced upon Microsoft’s acceptance of this Enrollment and 
remaining installments will be invoiced on each subsequent Enrollment anniversary date. Subsequent 
orders are invoiced upon acceptance of the order and Enrolled Affiliate may elect to pay annually or upfront 
for Online Services and upfront for all other Licenses. 
 
EA20241EnrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2023) Page 6 of 10 
Document X20-10636 
 
5. End of Enrollment term and termination. 
a. General.  At the Expiration Date, Enrolled Affiliate must immediately order and pay for Licenses 
for Products it has used but has not previously submitted an order, except as otherwis e 
provided in this Enrollment. 
b. Renewal option.  At the Expiration Date  of the initial term , Enrolled Affiliate can renew 
Products by renewing th is Enrollment for one additional 36 -month term or  by signing a new 
Enrollment.  Microsoft must receive a  Renewal Form, Product Selection Form , and renewal 
order prior to or at the Expiration Date. Microsoft will not unreasonably reject any renewal. 
Microsoft may make changes to this program that will make it necessary for Customer and its 
Enrolled Affiliates to enter into new agreements and Enrollments at renewal. 
c. If Enrolled Affiliate elects not to renew. 
(i) Software Assurance.  If Enrolled Affiliate elects not to renew Software Assurance for any 
Product under its Enrollment, then Enrolled Affiliate will not be permitted to order Software 
Assurance later without first acquiring a new License with Software Assurance. 
(ii) Online Services eligible for an Extended Term.  For Online Services identified as eligible 
for an Extended Term in the Product Terms, the following options are available at the end 
of the Enrollment initial or renewal term. 
1) Extended Term.  Licenses for Online Services will automatically expire in accordance 
with the terms of the Enrollment. An extended term option that allows Online Services 
to continue month -to-month (“Extended Term”) is available.  During the Extended 
Term, Online Services will be invoiced monthly at the then -current published price as 
of the Expiration Date plus a 3% administrative fee  for up to one year . If Enrolled 
Affiliate wants an Extended Term, Enrolled Affiliate must submit a request to Microsoft 
at least 30 days prior to the Expiration Date. 
2) Cancellation during Extended Term.   At any time during the first twelve months of 
the Extended Term, Enrolled Affiliate may terminate the Extended Term by submitting 
a notice of cancellation to Microsoft for each Online Service. Thereafter, Microsoft may 
condition the continued use of each O nline Service on the acceptance of new terms 
by the Enrolled Affiliate. Enrolled Affiliate will be notified in writing of any new terms at 
least 60 days before any such changes take effect.  Enrolled Affiliate acknowledges 
and agrees that after the notice described in this section , its continued use of each 
Online Service after the effective date provided in  the notice will constitute its 
acceptance of the new terms. If  Enrolled Affiliate does not agree to the new terms, it 
must stop using the Online Services and terminate the Extended Term as provided in 
this section. Enrolled Affiliate’s termination under this section will be effective at the 
end of the month following 30 days after Microsoft has received the notice. 
(iii) Subscription Licenses and Online Services not eligible for an Extended Term.  If 
Enrolled Affiliate elects not to renew, the Licenses will be cancelled and will terminate as 
of the Expiration Date.  Any associated media must be uninstalled and destroyed and  
Enrolled Affiliate’s Enterprise must discontinue use.  Microsoft may request written 
certification to verify compliance. 
d. Termination for cause.  Any termination for cause of this Enrollment will be subject to the 
“Termination for cause” section of the Agreement.  In addition, it shall be a breach of this 
Enrollment if Enrolled Affiliate or any Affiliate in the Enterprise that uses Government 
Community Cloud Services fails to meet and maintain the conditions of membership in the 
definition of Community. 
e. Early termination.  Any early termination of this Enrollment will be subject to the “Early 
Termination” Section of the Enterprise Agreement. 
 
EA20241EnrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2023) Page 7 of 10 
Document X20-10636 
 
For Subscription Licenses, in the event of a breach by Microsoft, or if Microsoft terminates an 
Online Service for regulatory reasons, Microsoft will issue Reseller a credit for any amount paid 
in advance for the period after termination. 
6. Government Community Cloud. 
a. Community requirements.   If Enrolled Affiliate purchases Government Community Cloud 
Services, Enrolled Affiliate certifies that it is a member of the Community and agrees to use 
Government Community Cloud Services solely in its capacity as a member of the Community 
and, for eligible Government Community Cloud Services, for the benefit of end users that are 
members of the Community.  Use of Government Community Cloud Services by an entity that 
is not a member of the Community or to provide services to non-Community members is strictly 
prohibited and could result in termination of Enrolled Affiliate’s license(s) for Government 
Community Cloud Services without notice.  Enrolled Affiliate acknowledges that only 
Community members may use Government Community Cloud Services. 
b. All terms and conditions applicable to non-Government Community Cloud Services also apply 
to their corresponding Government Community Cloud Services, except as otherwise noted in 
the Use Rights, Product Terms, and this Enrollment. 
c. Enrolled Affiliate may not deploy or use Government Community Cloud Services and 
corresponding non-Government Community Cloud Services in the same domain. 
d. Use Rights  for Government Community Cloud Services.  For Government Community 
Cloud Services, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Use Rights: 
(i) Government Community Cloud Services will be offered only within the United States.  
(ii) Additional European Terms, as set forth in the Use Rights, will not apply. 
(iii) References to geographic areas in the Use Rights with respect to the location of Customer 
Data at rest, as set forth in the Use Rights, refer only to the United States. 
 
EA20241EnrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2023) Page 8 of 10 
Document X20-10636 
 
Enrollment Details 
1. Enrolled Affiliate’s Enterprise. 
Identify which Agency Affiliates are included in the Enterprise. (Required)  Enrolled Affiliate’s Enterprise 
must consist of entire offices, bureaus, agencies, departments or other entities of Enrolled Affiliate, not 
partial offices, bureaus, agencies, or d epartments, or other partial entities.   Check only one box in this 
section. If no boxes are checked, Microsoft will deem the Enterprise to include the Enrolled Affiliate only. If 
more than one box is checked, Microsoft will deem the Enterprise to include the largest number of Affiliates: 
  Enrolled Affiliate only 
 Enrolled Affiliate and the following Affiliate(s):  
 
Unless specifically identified above, all Affiliates of Customer, either existing at the execution of this 
Enrollment or created or acquired after the execution of this Enrollment, will be excluded from the 
Enterprise. To request that an additional Affilia te be included in Customer’s Enterprise, Customer must 
identify an Affiliate to Microsoft in writing and provide any required documentation. Microsoft will reasonably 
review requests under this paragraph and may approve the inclusion of an Affiliate in Customer‘s Enterprise 
in its sole discretion.  
2. Contact information. 
Each party will notify the other in writing if any of the information in the following contact information page(s) 
changes.  The asterisks (*) indicate required fields.  By providing contact information, Enrolled Affiliate 
consents to its use for purposes of administering this Enrollment by Microsoft, its Affiliates, and other parties 
that help administer this Enrollment.  The personal information provided in connection with this Enrollment 
will be used and protected in accordance with the privacy statement  available at 
https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/servicecenter. 
a. Primary contact.  This contact is the primary contact for the Enrollment from within Enrolled 
Affiliate’s Enterprise.  This contact is also an Online Administrator for the Volume Licensing 
Service Center and may grant online access to others.  The primary contact will be the default 
contact for all purposes unless separate contacts are identified for specific purposes  
Name of entity (must be legal entity name)* City of Cheyenne  
Contact name: First* Tyler   Middle    Last* Nelson  
Contact email address* tnelson@cheyennecity.org  
Street address* 21001 O'Neil Ave.  .      
City* Cheyenne  
State* WY  
Postal code* 82001-3512  - 
(Please provide the zip + 4, e.g. xxxxx-xxxx) 
Country* United States  
Phone* 307-637-6267  
Tax ID  
* indicates required fields 
b. Notices contact and Online Administrator.  This contact (1) receives the contractual notices, 
(2) is the Online Administrator for the Volume Licensing Service Center and may grant online 
access to others, and (3) is authorized to order Reserved Licenses for eligible Online Servies, 
including adding or reassigning Licenses and stepping-up prior to a true-up order. 
   Same as primary contact (default if no information is provided below, even if the box is not 
checked). 
 
EA20241EnrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2023) Page 9 of 10 
Document X20-10636 
 
Contact name: First* Tyler   Middle    Last* Nelson  
Contact email address* tnelson@cheyennecity.org  
Street address* 21001 O'Neil Ave.  .      
City* Cheyenne 
State* WY 
Postal code* 82001-3512 - 
(Please provide the zip + 4, e.g. xxxxx-xxxx) 
Country* United States  
Phone* 307-637-6267  
Language preference.  Choose the language for notices.  English 
  This contact is a third party (not the Enrolled Affiliate).  Warning: This contact receives 
personally identifiable information of the Customer and its Affiliates. 
* indicates required fields 
c. Online Services Manager.  This contact is authorized to manage the Online Services ordered 
under the Enrollment and (for applicable Online Services) to add or reassign Licenses  and 
step-up prior to a true-up order. 
  Same as notices contact and Online Administrator  (default if no information is provided 
below, even if box is not checked) 
Contact name: First* Tyler   Middle    Last* Nelson  
Contact email address* tnelson@cheyennecity.org  
Phone* 307-637-6267 
  This contact is from a third party organization (not the entity).  Warning:  This contact 
receives personally identifiable information of the entity. 
* indicates required fields 
d. Reseller information.  Reseller contact for this Enrollment is: 
Reseller company name* Dell Inc. 
Street address (PO boxes will not be accepted)* One Dell Way    
City* RoundRock   
State* TX   
Postal code* 78682-7000 
Country* United States  
Contact name* *Govt Contract Admin 
Phone* 847-465-3700 
Contact email address* US_MS_VL_Admin@Dell.com 
* indicates required fields 
By signing below, the Reseller identified above confirms that all information provided in this 
Enrollment is correct. 
Signature*   
Printed name*   
Printed title*  
Date*  
* indicates required fields 
Changing a Reseller.  If Microsoft or the Reseller chooses to discontinue doing business with 
each other, Enrolled Affiliate must choose a replacement Reseller.  If Enrolled Affiliate or the 
Reseller intends to terminate their relationship, the initiating party must notify Microsoft and the 
other party using a form provided by Microsoft at least 90 days prior to the date on which the 
change is to take effect. 
 
EA20241EnrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2023) Page 10 of 10 
Document X20-10636 
 
e. If Enrolled Affiliate requires a separate contact for any of the following, attach the Supplemental 
Contact Information form.  Otherwise, the notices contact and Online Administrator  remains 
the default. 
(i) Additional notices contact 
(ii) Software Assurance manager 
(iii) Subscriptions manager 
(iv) Customer Support Manager (CSM) contact 
3. Financing elections. 
Is a purchase under this Enrollment being financed through MS Financing?    Yes,   No. 
If a purchase under this Enrollment is financed through MS Financing, and Enrolled Affiliate chooses not to 
finance any associated taxes, it must pay these taxes directly to Microsoft. 
 
 
1■ Microsoft 
Enterprise Update Statement 
Enterprise Agreement Number 01 E73705 
Enrollment Number 7690328 
Company Name City of Cheyenne 
Volume Licensing 
In accordance with the terms of entity's Enterprise Agreement and Enrollment, a true-up order must be 
submitted for each Enrollment's anniversary {including at Enrollment expiration and prior to any 
renewal) to account for License quantity increases for: 
a. Qualified Desktops/Devices or Qualified Users 
b. Online Services {where permitted) 
c. Previously ordered Additional Products 
d. Products included in the Server and Cloud Enrollment or Enrollment for Core Infrastructure 
e. Products included in the Enrollment for Application Platform. Products selected with the 
three year true-up option must place the true-up order only upon enrollment expiration and 
prior to renewal. 
If entity has ordered any additional quantities since its last Enrollment anniversary, this annual true-up 
order is still required. Entity must submit an Enterprise Update Statement for each anniversary when 
there has been no increase in required License quantities as described above. 
lgJ In checking this box, entity confirms that under the above referenced Enrollment, there has been 
no increase in the number of required Licenses not already ordered in a prior placed True Up 
Orders. Entity understands that it is the responsibility of the entity to ensure that all licenses 
installed are used according to the Enterprise Agreement and Enrollment referenced above. 
Select applicable year for this Update statement: 3 
Customer/Government Partner (as applicable) 
Name of Entity* 
Citv of Chevenne 
Signature* 
Printed Name* 
- Printed Title* 
... Signature Date* 
* Indicates required fields 
EAUniversalUpdateStatement(VWV)(ENG)(Jul2015) Page 1 of 1 
A quote for your consideration
Based on your business needs, we put the following quote together to help with your
purchase decision. Below is a detailed summary of the quote we’ve created to help you with
your purchase decision.
To proceed with this quote, you may respond to this email, order online through your
Premier page.
Quote No. 3000185039254.1
Total $139,617.09
Customer # 97633016
Quoted On Jan. 17, 2025
Expires by Jan. 31, 2025
Contract Name NASPO SVAR - Wyoming
PA
Contract Code C000001025515
Customer Agreement # CTR060024
Sales Rep Calyn Walsh
Phone 1(800) 4563355
Email Calyn.Walsh@dell.com
Billing To ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 
WY-L CITY OF CHEYENNE 
2101 O'NEIL AVE 
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 
CHEYENNE, WY 82001
Message from your Sales Rep
Please use the Order button to securely place the order with your preferred payment method online. You may contact
your Dell sales team if you have any questions. Thank you for shopping with Dell. 
Regards,
Calyn Walsh
Shipping Group
Shipping To
INFORMATION TECHONOLOGY 
WY-L CITY OF CHEYENNE 
2101 ONEIL AVE RM 110 
CHEYENNE, WY 82001-3512 
(307) 637-6200
Shipping Method
Standard Delivery
Quantity Unit Price Subtotal
65145958
1. VLA ENTERPRISE PROJECT P5 GCC SUB VL MVL PER
USR
1 $493.08 $493.08
2. VLA ENTERPRISE OFFICE365 G3 SHRDSVR SUBLIC PER
USER ALL LANG
495 $242.59 $120,082.05
3. VLA ENTERPRISE VISIO STD SA ALL LANGUAGES 2 $55.73 $111.46
4. VLA ENTERPRISE PROJECT P1 GCC SUB PER USER 4 $89.65 $358.60
5. VLA ENTERPRISE O365GCCF3 SHRDSVR ALNG SUBSVL
MVL PERUSR
245 $35.84 $8,780.80
Page 1 Dell Marketing LP. U.S. only. Dell Marketing LP. is located at One Dell Way, Mail Stop 8129, Round Rock, TX 78682
6.
VLA ENTERPRISE CORECAL BRIDGE OFF365 SUBLIC
PER USR ALL LNG
495
$19.78
$9,791.10
7.
VLA ENTERPRISE AUDIO CONFERENCING SELECT DIAL
OUT GCC SUB
740
$0.00
$0.00
Subtotal:
Shipping:
Non-Taxable Amount:
Taxable Amount:
Estimated Tax:
Total:
$139,617.09
$0.00
$139,617.09
$0.00
$0.00
$139,617.09
Special pricing may be available for qualified customers. Please contact your DFS Sales Representative for details.
Page 
2
 
Dell Marketing LP. U.S. only. Dell Marketing LP. is located at One Dell Way, Mail Stop 8129, Round Rock, TX 78682
 
SKU: 
AD245600
MFG Part #: 
7VX-00001
OLS Purchase Type:
Current Duration:
Total Duration:
Maint. End Date: 
Jan. 31, 2028
SKU: 
AD245598
MFG Part #: 
AAA-11894
OLS Purchase Type:
Current Duration:
Total Duration:
Maint. End Date: 
Jan. 31, 2028
SKU: 
AD245596
MFG Part #: 
D86-01253
OLS Purchase Type:
Current Duration:
Total Duration:
Maint. End Date: 
Jan. 31, 2028
SKU: 
AD245601
MFG Part #: 
PF1-00002
OLS Purchase Type:
Current Duration:
Total Duration:
Maint. End Date: 
Jan. 31, 2028
SKU: 
AD245599
MFG Part #: 
3KS-00001
OLS Purchase Type:
Current Duration:
Total Duration:
Maint. End Date: 
Jan. 31, 2028
SKU: 
AD245597
MFG Part #: 
AAA-12414
OLS Purchase Type:
Current Duration:
Total Duration:
Maint. End Date: 
Jan. 31, 2028
SKU: 
AD245602
MFG Part #: 
NYH-00001
OLS Purchase Type:
Current Duration:
Total Duration:
Maint. End Date: 
Jan. 31, 2028
Shipping Group Details
Shipping To
INFORMATION TECHONOLOGY 
WY-L CITY OF CHEYENNE 
2101 ONEIL AVE RM 110 
CHEYENNE, 
WY 
82001-3512 
(307) 637-6200
Shipping Method
Standard Delivery
Quantity
Unit Price
Subtotal
65145958
1.
VLA ENTERPRISE PROJECT P5 GCC SUB VL MVL PER USR
1
$493.08
$493.08
2.
VLA ENTERPRISE OFFICE365 G3 SHRDSVR SUBLIC PER
USER ALL LANG
495
$242.59
$120,082.05
3.
VLA ENTERPRISE VISIO STD SA ALL LANGUAGES
2
$55.73
$111.46
4.
VLA ENTERPRISE PROJECT P1 GCC SUB PER USER
4
$89.65
$358.60
5.
VLA ENTERPRISE O365GCCF3 SHRDSVR ALNG SUBSVL
MVL PERUSR
245
$35.84
$8,780.80
6.
VLA ENTERPRISE CORECAL BRIDGE OFF365 SUBLIC PER
USR ALL LNG
495
$19.78
$9,791.10
7.
VLA ENTERPRISE AUDIO CONFERENCING SELECT DIAL
OUT GCC SUB
740
$0.00
$0.00
Page 
3
 
Dell Marketing LP. U.S. only. Dell Marketing LP. is located at One Dell Way, Mail Stop 8129, Round Rock, TX 78682
 
Important Notes
Terms of Sale
This Quote will, if Customer issues a purchase order for the quoted items that is accepted by Supplier, constitute a contract between the
entity issuing this Quote (“Supplier”) and the entity to whom this Quote was issued (“Customer”). Unless otherwise stated herein, pricing is
valid for thirty days from the date of this Quote. All product, pricing and other information is based on the latest information available and is
subject to change. Supplier reserves the right to cancel this Quote and Customer purchase orders arising from pricing errors. Taxes and/or
freight charges listed on this Quote are only estimates. The final amounts shall be stated on the relevant invoice. Additional freight charges
will be applied if Customer requests expedited shipping. Please indicate any tax exemption status on your purchase order and send your tax
exemption certificate to 
Tax_Department@dell.com
 or 
ARSalesTax@emc.com
, as applicable.
Governing Terms
: This Quote is subject to: (a) a separate written agreement between Customer or Customer’s affiliate and Supplier or a
Supplier´s affiliate to the extent that it expressly applies to the products and/or services in this Quote or, to the extent there is no such
agreement, to the applicable set of Dell’s Terms of Sale (available at 
www.dell.com/terms
 or 
www.dell.com/oemterms
), or for cloud/as-a-
Service offerings, the applicable cloud terms of service (identified on the Offer Specific Terms referenced below); and (b) the terms
referenced herein (collectively, the “Governing Terms”). Different Governing Terms may apply to different products and services on this
Quote. The Governing Terms apply to the exclusion of all terms and conditions incorporated in or referred to in any documentation submitted
by Customer to Supplier.
Supplier Software Licenses and Services Descriptions
: Customer’s use of any Supplier software is subject to the license terms
accompanying the software, or in the absence of accompanying terms, the applicable terms posted on 
www.Dell.com/eula
. Descriptions and
terms for Supplier-branded standard services are stated at 
www.dell.com/servicecontracts/global
 or for certain infrastructure products at
www.dellemc.com/en-us/customer-services/product-warranty-and-service-descriptions.htm
.
Offer-Specific, Third Party and Program Specific Terms
: Customer’s use of third-party software is subject to the license terms that
accompany the software. Certain Supplier-branded and third-party products and services listed on this Quote are subject to additional,
specific terms stated on 
www.dell.com/offeringspecificterms
 (“Offer Specific Terms”).
In case of Resale only
: Should Customer procure any products or services for resale, whether on standalone basis or as part of a solution,
Customer shall include the applicable software license terms, services terms, and/or offer-specific terms in a written agreement with the end-
user and provide written evidence of doing so upon receipt of request from Supplier.
In case of Financing only
: If Customer intends to enter into a financing arrangement (“Financing Agreement”) for the products and/or
services on this Quote with Dell Financial Services LLC or other funding source pre-approved by Supplier (“FS”), Customer may issue its
purchase order to Supplier or to FS. If issued to FS, Supplier will fulfill and invoice FS upon confirmation that: (a) FS intends to enter into a
Financing Agreement with Customer for this order; and (b) FS agrees to procure these items from Supplier. Notwithstanding the Financing
Agreement, Customer’s use (and Customer’s resale of and the end-user’s use) of these items in the order is subject to the applicable
governing agreement between Customer and Supplier, except that title shall transfer from Supplier to FS instead of to Customer. If FS
notifies Supplier after shipment that Customer is no longer pursuing a Financing Agreement for these items, or if Customer fails to enter into
such Financing Agreement within 120 days after shipment by Supplier, Customer shall promptly pay the Supplier invoice amounts directly to
Supplier.
Customer represents that this transaction does not involve: (a) use of U.S. Government funds; (b) use by or resale to the U.S. Government;
or (c) maintenance and support of the product(s) listed in this document within classified spaces. Customer further represents that this
transaction does not require Supplier’s compliance with any statute, regulation or information technology standard applicable to a U.S.
Government procurement.
For certain products shipped to end users in California, a State Environmental Fee will be applied to Customer’s invoice. Supplier
encourages customers to dispose of electronic equipment properly.
Electronically linked terms and descriptions are available in hard copy upon request.
Page 
4
 
Dell Marketing LP. U.S. only. Dell Marketing LP. is located at One Dell Way, Mail Stop 8129, Round Rock, TX 78682
 