Planning and Development Office 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282   (Fax) 307-637-6366 
 
 
 
 
 
MEMO 
To: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
From: Charles Bloom, Planning and Development Director 
Subject: PLTA-25-1 – Amending UDC Sections 1.4.4, 5.1.4 Table 5-2, and 5.7.10 to remove “Work 
Campes”  
Date: February 10, 2025 
 
Background:  
The item for consideration is a UDC Text Amendment. This is approved by Ordinance.    
 
The proposed Governing Body review schedule is as follows: 
• Introduction and Referral  2/10/2025 
• Public Services Committee  2/18/2025 
• Second reading    2/24/2025 
• Public Services Committee  3/3/2025 
• Third and final reading   3/10/2025 
 
Planning Commission Recommendation:  
The Planning Commission heard this item at their February 3, 2025, meeting and unanimously voted to 
recommend the Governing Body approve the proposed text amendment. 
 
The Planning Commission Staff report is attached and has not been changed.  
 
Attachments: 
1. Ordinance 
2. Redlined Ordinance 
3. Planning Commission Staff Report 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Planning and Development Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282 (Fax) 307-637-6366 
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: "AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 1.4.4, 5.1 .4, AND 5.7.10 OF 
THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TO REMOVE THE LAND USE 
TERM 'WORK CAMPS ' AND PROHIBIT THEIR ESTABLISHMENT 
WITHIN THE CITY" 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1.  That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
that is the subject of this ordinance meets the criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the Unified 
Development Code of the City of Cheyenne (UDC). 
 
Section 2 .  That on February 3, 2025 , the Planning Commission conducted a public 
hearing, reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text 
amendment. 
 
Section 3.  That Section 1.4.4 of the UDC is amended to read as shown in Exhibit A, which 
is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Section 4.  That Section 5.1.4 of the UDC is amended to read as shown in Exhibit B, which 
is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Section 5.  That Section 5.7.10 of the UDC is hereby amended to read:  
 
5.7.10 [RESERVED] 
 
Section 6.  Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any of the remaining 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
 Section 7.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
  
Page 2 of 2 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
 
(SEAL) 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 24
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
with limited capacities and the associated hardware, such as 
transformers, relays and shut-off valves. They also consist of 
traffic-control boxes and traffic signal installations. 
Utility Facilities. Any utility facility, whether or not regulated by 
the Wyoming Public Service Commission, not described as an 
essential service utility. 
Wall, Retaining. A physical barrier necessary to prevent erosion 
and/or retain earth. 
Water Quality Capture Volume (WQCV).  Represents runoff from 
frequent storm events such as the 80th percentile storm.  The 
volume varies depending on local rainfall data.  The WQCV is 
based on runoff from 0.6 inches of precipitation (approximately 
0.5 inches of runoff ).
Water System.  A public or private system of providing potable 
water to a structure for domestic use. 
Woonerf. A street designed for use by pedestrian and vehicular 
traffic, where the pedestrian has the right-of-way.
WyDEQ. The Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality.
1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings
This sec
tion contains general descriptions associated with the 
uses of land and buildings. It is organized according to categories 
of uses and specific types of uses within each category. These 
categories and types correspond to the Use Table in Article 5, 
Zoning Regulations. Where a use appears to meet two or more 
descriptions or where a use is not described, the Director shall 
make a determination.  If a use meets all of the characteristics of 
a use category and use type, or is so similar to a described use 
type as to create no anticipated differential impact, the Director 
may interpret that the described use includes the additional 
use. In making this determination, the Director shall compare: 
(a) the intensity and scale of the use relative to the site; (b) the
typical site and building designs associated with the use; (c)
the functional or operational characteristics and the potential
impacts of the use on adjacent property; and (d) the potential
contribution of the use to the overall character of the district or
districts in which the comparable use is allowed.  All other uses
which cannot be interpreted in this manner are different from
the described uses, are not anticipated by these regulations,
and may only be allowed by a zoning text amendment.
Street, Local.  Refers to the functional classification of a street in 
the entire transportation network, which has limited continuity 
except for short distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the 
context, the standards in these regulations, and other specific 
transportation plans and policies.
Structure.   That which is built or constructed, an edifice, or 
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up 
or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner. 
Tiedown.  Any device designed to anchor a manufactured home 
or any other accessory building or structure to the ground. 
Temporary Use.   A use or activity that is intended to occupy the 
site on a non-continuous basis for more than 14 days.
Tower. Any structure that is designed and constructed 
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas 
for telephone, radio and similar communication purposes, 
including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers or 
monopole towers. The term includes, but is not limited to, 
radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, 
common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative 
tower structures and any tower support.
Tract.   A unit of land established by a plat or otherwise as 
permitted by law, designated for limited or no development as 
part of an approved plan for a legitimate public or community 
purpose and designated for public or common ownership and 
maintenance.
Traffic-control Devices.  Signs, signals, markings, or other 
approved geometric designs in the roadway approved by the 
public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of 
regulating, warning, guiding, or calming traffic.
Triple frontage lot. See “Lot, triple frontage. ”
Unit Space. A designated portion of a manufactured home park 
for the accommodation of one manufactured home. 
Urban Drainage and Flood Control District (UDFCD). The 
metropolitan Denver drainage organization. 
Utilities, Essential Services. Those utility facilities that provide 
end user services to customers. They include local distribution 
and collection lines for gas, electricity, water, sewer, telephone 
or cable TV services throughout neighborhoods and connect 
with each customer. They consist of cables, wires or pipes 
Exhibit A page 1 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 25
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
to a resident or residents. Examples of Group Housing 
include, but are not limited to, homes for elders and 
disabled or mobility- impaired persons, homes for 
rehabilitation from drugs or alcohol addiction, or 
homes for formerly incarcerated persons. The Group 
Housing use is subject to the provisions of Section 
5.7.5.d and e of the UDC.
Dormitories. A Residential use in a building that 
provides sleeping accommodations for a number of 
people.
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”). A Residential 
use in a building designed for more than two principal 
dwelling units and situated on a single fee simple lot.  
This building type includes a variety of variations based 
on the permitted building scale, including “stacked 
flats” (3-story/tri-plex), “six-plex” (paired stacked flats), 
or larger apartment buildings.  
Live/Work.  A primarily residential use in a building 
designed for two principal uses, where a portion is 
designed for residential dwelling use, and a portion is 
designed for a limited non-residential use to support 
the occupation or vocation of the resident of the 
dwelling unit.  The non-residential portion is limited to 
the 1st story and less than 50% of the total floor area 
of the building. The building is situated on its own fee 
simple lot but may be attached or detached based on 
zoning district standards and context.  
Mixed-use Dwelling.  A Residential use in a building 
designed for a mix of uses with office or retail on the 
1st story / street-front and residential uses on the upper 
stories where the dwelling units are not accessory to 
the non-residential uses.  Mixed-use buildings may be 
either small- or large-scale, with larger scale buildings, 
depending on the context and zoning district 
standards, and typically being broken into multiple 
fee simple lots with party walls, but the dwelling units 
may be owned in fee simple, as condominiums, or 
apartments.
Accessory Dwelling. A separate dwelling unit that is 
associated with, incidental to, and subordinate to 
another dwelling unit as the principal use, and is 
located on the same lot as the principal dwelling 
(commonly referred to as “In-laws Quarters” or “Garage 
Apartment”).
a. Residential Uses. 
 The Residential use category is for all 
types of dwelling units used for permanent residence, 
including a variety of lot types, building types, and unit 
types, that may vary in the kind and classes of buildings 
based on the character of the neighborhood. 
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse” / “Rowhouse”).  A 
Residential use in a building designed with a series of 
attached principal dwelling units separated by a single 
common wall.  Each unit is typically situated on its own 
fee simple lot where party walls are used, but buildings 
or grounds may be owned in common. Each unit has 
the same orientation and front façade, and has its own 
private entrance to the exterior of the structure. 
Detached Dwelling. A Residential use in a detached 
building designed as a single principal dwelling unit 
and situated on its own fee simple lot.
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”).  A Residential use 
in a detached building designed as two principal 
dwelling units. It may be designed as a “paired house, ” 
matching the appearance of a house, or it may be 
designed as a “flat-over-flat, ” matching the appearance 
of a small apartment building.  A duplex is situated on 
its own fee simple lot, but each unit of a side-by-side 
paired house may be platted on an individual lot if 
party walls are used.
Cottage Lot. A Residential use utilizing detached 
dwellings, semi-attached dwellings, or attached 
dwellings designed to face a common area (typically 
open space) with other shared facilities (such as 
shared public street access, shared parking, shared 
trash collection, etc.). Individual dwelling units may 
be on fee simple lots, a condominium, or on one 
larger ownership parcel. A cottage lot is also known as 
“bungalow court” or “cottage court” . Cottage lots are 
subject to the provisions of UDC Section 6.6.5.   
Group Housing.  A residential use, Group Housing is the 
provision of in-home, 24-hour, 7-days a week custodial 
care for from 1 to 6 individuals living together as a 
single housekeeping unit in a single -family, detached 
dw
elling unit. This maximum number excludes 
staff. This use does not include a household where 
custodial care is provided by a family member to 
from 1 to 6 persons in a single-family, detached 
dwelling unit. Custodial care includes the provision 
of in-home personal assistance, housekeeping 
service, supervision, and limited medical assistance 
Exhibit A page 2 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 26
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
and dedicated for internment purposes, including 
columbaria, crematoria, mausoleums and mortuaries 
when operated in conjunction with and within the 
boundary of such cemetery.
Primary and Secondary Schools.  A Civic use where 
buildings and facilities are used for the education and 
instruction of K through 12 students.
Educational Facilities.  A Civic use where buildings and 
facilities are used for the education and instruction of 
post-secondary students, non-traditional students, or 
continuing education for adult or general population.
Community Athletic Field.  A noncommercial facility 
for active outdoor recreation and organized sports, 
including a facility which is an accessory use to a 
school, but excluding any facility with lighted fields 
or permanent buildings for refreshment stands, locker 
rooms or shower facilities. 
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium.  A facility for 
active outdoor recreation and organized sports which 
includes lighted fields, permanent grandstands, or 
permanent buildings for refreshment stands, locker 
rooms or shower facilities. 
c. Servic
e Uses.  The Service use category is for businesses 
engaged in the exchange of professional skills, advice, 
personal care or other resources, and the nature of the 
exchange generally requires frequent interactions with the 
clients, customers or patrons on the premises, and where 
lots or buildings may require access or exposure to the 
public-at-large.
Service Business – Limited.  A Service use that primarily 
supports adjacent residential uses by providing 
daily services for the convenience of residents, and 
involving less than 3,000 square feet of gross leasable 
area. Examples include post office, bank outlet, barber 
shop or beauty salon, tailor, or other similar services.
Service Business – General.  A Service use that provides 
support for adjacent residential uses or businesses 
which may involve more than 3,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area. Examples include copy centers, 
large banks, or any other similar services that exceed 
the scale of Service Business – Limited.
Assisted Living Facility / Nursing Home.  A Service 
use / institutional occupancy providing residential 
Urban Loft Building. A residential use in a building 
designed for more than two principal dwelling units 
and situated on a single fee simple lot. This building 
type contemplates a taller multifamily building, often 
with parking structured or at grade with the building 
above, located in a walkable, mixed use context.
Manufactured housing parks. An area of land under 
one fee ownership, where designated spaces for 
manufactured home are rented for use as a principal 
dwelling unit, and which may provide associated 
facilities for common use.
b. Civic Uses.
 The Civic use category includes uses serving 
a broad and general public and community interest to 
enhance daily cultural, social or recreation opportunities 
for area landowners and residents.  This category is based 
on the need of different kinds and classes of buildings in 
close proximity with other uses, which can be integrated in 
to these areas with the appropriate level of civic design.  The 
Civic use category may contain uses that are either public 
and accessible to all citizens; common and accessible by 
rights associated with ownership; or private and accessible 
by membership or general association.
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy).  A 
Civic use that conducts organized services, assemblies, 
or programs on a periodic or occasional basis, primarily 
for the convenience, entertainment, education, 
and social or spiritual welfare of nearby residents.  
Neighborhood Assemblies typically have buildings 
and supporting facilities designed for a capacity of no 
more than 350 people for any one event.  Common 
examples include meeting halls, neighborhood 
association club houses, or smaller neighborhood 
churches.
Community Assembly (350 -1000 maximum occupancy).  
A Civic use that conducts organized services, 
assemblies, or programs on a periodic or occasional 
basis, primarily for the convenience, entertainment, 
education, and social or spiritual welfare for citizens in 
the general vicinity.  Community Assemblies typically 
have buildings and supporting facilities designed for 
a capacity of no more than 1000 people for any one 
event.  Common examples include community centers, 
museum, or large churches. [ For larger assemblies see 
Entertainment, Venue].
Cemeteries.  A Civic use where land is used for the 
burial of the deceased, both human and animals, 
Exhibit A page 3 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 27
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility. A Service 
use where facilities for outdoor sports, entertainment, 
or similar recreation opportunities for participants and 
spectators are offered.  Examples include racetracks, 
driving ranges, music performance venues, or other 
outdoor entertainment venues. 
Entertainment, Venue.  A Service use where music 
concerts, floor shows or other forms of entertainment, 
performances or presentations by persons are provided 
indoors for guests or the general public, which may 
include accessory dining, bar, and similar refreshment 
services.  Examples include concert halls, theatrical 
performance art centers, dinner theaters, other food 
or beverage-serving establishments providing live 
entertainment venues, banquet halls, or auditoriums.
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation Services—Other.  
A Service use primarily engaged in the operation of 
indoor or outdoor entertainment, amusement and 
recreation services not elsewhere classified, such as 
off-track betting, indoor or outdoor shooting range, 
amusement parks, or similar sports or recreation 
venues.
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast.   A Service use where up to 
six guest rooms  are rented, generally for short-term 
occupancy for sleeping, together with limited facilities 
for the accommodations of guests in a home-like 
atmosphere.
Lodging, Hotel or Motel.  A Service use where six or 
more guest rooms are rented, generally for short-
term occupancy for sleeping, together with incidental 
meeting rooms, restaurants and recreation facilities for 
the primary benefit of the guests.
Medical Care, Clinic.  A Service use where physicians, 
dentists, or other health care professionals are 
associated for the purpose of carrying on their 
professions.  A health clinic may include a dental or 
medical laboratory, after hours emergency care, but it 
may not include in-patient care or operating rooms for 
major surgery.
Medical Care, Office.  A Service use where physicians, 
dentists, or other health care professionals carrying on 
their professions. A medical office may include a dental 
or medical laboratory, but may not include in-patient 
care or operating rooms for major surgery and may not 
be open for after-hours emergency care.
accommodations for 7 or more persons to meet the 
needs of the aging, semi-dependent or dependent 
population in a residential environment, together with 
recreation and support services and facilities for the 
benefit of the residents and where any permanent on-
site staff is accessory to the primarily residential use. 
On-site skilled nursing care or medical facilities may 
be provided. An Assisted Living Facility/Nursing Home 
use is subject to the provisions of Section 5.7.5 of the 
UDC. An Assisted Living facility/Nursing Home use, 
pursuant to this definition, does not include a Group 
Housing use or site. An Assisted Living Facility/Nursing 
Home operation may take place within a residential or 
a non-residential structure.
Animal Care, Kennel.  A Service use where domestic 
animals are boarded, bred or sold as a primary business. 
Animal Care, Hospital / Clinic.  A Service use where 
animals are admitted for examination, treatment, 
or health care by a doctor of veterinary medicine, 
which may include kennels, runs or other accessory 
accommodations.
Family Child Care Home (FCCH). A Service use where 
preschool care and education is provided for up to 
10 children within the owner’s primary residence. The 
owner’s infants, toddler and/or children ages three (3) 
to five (5) shall count toward the capacity.
Family Child Care Center (FCCC). A Service use where 
preschool care and education is provided for up to 
15 children within the owner’s primary residence. The 
owner’s infants, toddler and/or children ages three (3) 
to five (5) shall count toward the capacity.
Child Care Center (CCC). A Service use where preschool 
care and education is provided for children on a regular 
basis not located in any person’s residence.
Emergency Shelter. A facility, which provides shelter or 
overnight accommodations and incidental support 
services for persons experiencing homelessness and/
or families on a short-term basis. 
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility. A Service 
use where facilities for indoor sports, entertainment, 
or similar recreation opportunities for participants 
and spectators are offered.  Examples of uses include 
bowling alleys, pool halls, roller skating rinks, swimming 
pools, movie theaters, video or similar gaming venues, 
racquetball courts, or fitness clubs. 
Exhibit A page 4 of 9
Medical Care, Hospital.  A Service use providing  health 
services, primarily for inpatients, and medical or 
surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an 
integral part of the institution such related facilities 
as laboratories, outpatient departments, training 
facilities, central service facilities and staff offices.
Mini Storage. A Service use where a building or 
group of buildings in a controlled  access and f
enced 
compound that contains varying sizes(s) of individual, 
compartmentalized and controlled-access stalls or 
lockers for the storage of a customer’s goods or wares. 
Mini Storage may include individual units accessed 
from inside of a building offered for rent or lease for 
the storage of personal property. It may also include 
parking areas for the storage of vehicles, trailers, 
recreational vehicles, boats, snow mobiles and other 
similar items as an accessory use. Outdoor storage, 
or the storage of junk, explosives, or flammable 
materials and other noxious or dangerous materials 
are specifically prohibited.
Storage, Yard.  A Service use where exterior yards are 
leased for the outdoor storage of large-item personal 
property such as boats or recreational vehicles.
d. Employment Uses
. The Employment use category is 
for businesses engaged in administrative, clerical, and 
professional operations and support, where products or 
services are of the nature that generally, when compared 
to Retail Use Types, do not require daily on-premise 
interactions with the clients, customers or patrons, and 
where lots and buildings are not primarily designed to 
maximize exposure to the public-at-large.  
Home Occupation. A business which is carried on 
entirely within a legal or legal non-conforming 
dwelling or allowed accessory building, and which 
is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the 
premises as a dwelling.
Office - Limited. An Employment use which is not an 
accessory to another use, but limited individual units 
of gross leasable area are less than 3,500 square feet, 
and where each owner or tenant typically employs 
less than 20 employees on premises.   Examples 
include small-scale professional service offices such 
as accountants, architects, insurance, law, real estate, 
or other similar businesses which can operate within 
the unit square footage and employee limits of this 
category. 
Office - General.  An Employment use where individual 
units of gross leasable area are between 3,500 and 
20,000 square feet, and where each owner or tenant 
typically employs between 20 and 100 employees on 
premises.  Examples include large professional service 
offices such as accountants, architects, insurance, law, 
real estate, or other similar businesses which exceed 
the Office - Limited category, or other moderate size 
business or corporate employment operations.
Major Office or Office Complex.  An Employment use 
where individual units of gross leasable area may 
be more than 20,000 square feet in a single building 
or group of buildings, and each owner or tenant 
may typically employ more than 100 employees on 
premises.  Examples include major professional service 
firms or large corporate offices.
e. Commercial Uses
. The Commercial use category is for 
businesses engaged in the exchange of merchandise for 
general consumers, and nature of the exchange generally 
requires frequent interactions with the clients, customers 
or patrons on the premises, where lots or buildings are 
primarily designed for exposure to the public-at-large.
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k).  A Commercial 
use primarily engaged in the small-scale sale of 
household merchandise and general consumer 
products and involving less than 2,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area.  Convenience Retail / Corner Store 
uses are characterized by target market areas of less 
than 1/4 mile radius for most of its on-premise sales or 
are associated accessory to an employment or service 
business.
Neighborhood Retail (<5K).  A Commercial use 
primarily engaged in the small-scale sale of household 
merchandise and general consumer products and 
involving less than 5,000 square feet of gross leasable 
area.  Neighborhood retail uses are characterized by a 
target market area of less than ½ mile radius for most 
of its on premise sales.
General Retail (5K -  25K).  A Commercial use primarily 
engaged in the sale of household merchandise, 
specialty merchandise, and consumer products 
and involving between 5,000 and 25,000 square 
feet of gross leasable area.  General Retail uses are 
characterized by a target market area of less than 1 
mile radius for most of its on-premise sales.
ArtiCle 1
GenerAl provisions
ArtiCle 1
GenerAl provisions 1.4     interpretAtion1.4     interpretAtion
1 - 28Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Exhibit A page 5 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 29
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Commercial use.  This display is further limited by the 
following:  (1) it only occurs during regular business 
hours and is brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent 
to less than 20% of the entire merchandise area of the 
Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sales 
or events lasting no longer than one month at a time 
with at least 2 months between consecutive events.
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area.  The display of 
merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior private 
area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
Commercial use that does not meet the limitations of 
Limited or Seasonal Outdoor Sales, and which may 
require areas to be designed and dedicated for display 
when part of the permanent operations of an interior 
retail business. Examples include lumber yards and 
garden centers.
Outdoor Sales.   The display and sale of merchandise 
where the primary business is generated by 
merchandise displayed permanently and year round 
on an exterior portion of the site. Examples include 
automobile sales and implement sales.
Bars.   A Commercial use primarily engaged in serving 
alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises.  
Any food or entertainment services are generally 
secondary or accessory to the business.
Liquor Store.  A Commercial use engaged primarily in 
the retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption 
off-premises.  The sale of food or accessory beverage 
supplies are generally secondary or accessory to the 
business.
Automobile Repair.  A Commercial use engaged in the 
repair, maintenance, or condition of motor vehicles 
and including the accessory sales of lubricants, parts, 
or accessories.
Automobile Service Station – Limited.   A Commercial 
use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, and may include 
accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair 
services, or maintenance services.  This use is limited 
to no more than 2 fuel pump islands and no more than 
8 fueling stations.
Automobile Service Station – General.  A Commercial 
use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, and may 
include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, 
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K). A Commercial 
use primarily engaged in the sale of household 
merchandise, specialty merchandise or general 
consumer products and involving between 25,000 
and 100,000 square feet of gross leasable area.  Large-
scale Retail uses are characterized by a target market 
area that may be greater than 1 mile radius for the on-
premise component of its sales.
Warehouse Retail (> 100K).  A Commercial use primarily 
engaged in the sale of household merchandise, 
specialty products, general consumer products, 
or wholesale products and involving greater than 
100,000 square feet of gross leasable area.  Warehouse 
Retail uses are characterized by a target market area 
that may be more than 1 mile radius for most of its 
sales.
Grocery Store (<45K).   A Commercial use engaged 
in the retail sale of a broad range of food products 
and limited household products for consumption 
off premises, although some limited areas may be 
dedicated to the on-premise sale and consumption of 
food.  A grocery store involves less than 45,000 square 
feet of gross leasable area and is characterized by a 
target market of less than 1-mile radius.
Supermarket  (> 45K).   A Commercial use engaged in 
the retail sale of a broad range of food and household 
products for consumption off premises, although 
some limited areas may be dedicated to the on-
premise sale and consumption of food. A supermarket 
typically involves more than 45,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area and is characterized by a target 
market of greater than 1-mile radius.
Outdoor Sales, Limited.  The limited display of 
merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior private 
area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
Commercial use.  This display is further limited by the 
following:  (1) it only occurs during regular business 
hours and is brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent 
to less than 10% of the entire merchandise area of the 
Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sales 
or events lasting no longer than one-week at a time 
with at least 4 weeks between consecutive events.
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal.  The limited display of 
merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior private 
area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
Exhibit A page 6 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 30
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
emergency generators. A Data Center shall not 
include activities which consistently produce noise 
discernable at the property line. Should a Data Center 
produce noise discernable at the property line, it shall 
be classified as an Industrial use.
Limited Industrial.  An Industrial use where small-scale 
activities produce no byproducts such as smoke, 
odor, dust or noise discernable from the outside of 
the building in which it is located.  Individual facilities 
typically occupy less than 10,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area and distribution and deliveries 
are commonly made by general consumer delivery 
services, requiring no significant truck access.  A retail, 
showroom, or service component is often associated 
with the use.  Examples include artist studios, metal 
and wood shops, arts and crafts manufacturing, small 
appliance or machine repairs, or other small-scale 
assembly of finished parts or products from previously 
prepared materials.
Moderate Industrial.  An Industrial use where 
byproducts such as smoke, odor, dust or noise are 
not discernable from outside of the building in which 
it is located. Distribution and deliveries can occur 
from general consumer delivery services or limited 
commercial truck access.   Examples include research 
labs or facilities, small electronics or computer 
assembly and manufacturing, furniture assembly. 
General Industrial.  An Industrial use where byproducts 
such as smoke, odor, dust or noise are not discernable 
from beyond the property boundary. Operations may 
require commercial vehicle access for distribution 
and deliveries.  Examples include non-animal food 
processing, commercial warehouses or wholesale 
distribution centers or energy industry services.
Industrial. An Industrial use capable of producing 
significant byproducts discernable from outside the 
building and property including noise, odors, or other 
potentially offensive materials.  Operations may require 
substantial commercial vehicle access for distribution 
and deliveries. Examples include food-processing 
involving animals (large-scale), metal or chemical 
manufacturing, and data centers which consistently 
produce noise discernable at the property line.
repair services, or maintenance services, or accessory 
Convenience Retail.  This use is limited to no more 
than 4 fuel pump islands and no more than 16 fueling 
stations.
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale.  A Commercial 
use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, and may 
include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, 
repair services, or maintenance services, or accessory 
Convenience Retail.  This use may have more than 4 
fuel pump islands and more than 16 fueling stations.
Food Service – Limited (< 2K).  Any Commercial use 
engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food and 
beverages for consumption on-site and including less 
than 2,000 square feet of seating area. 
Food Service – General (2K – 4K).   Any Commercial use 
engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food 
and beverages for consumption on-site and including 
between 2,000 and 4,000 square feet of seating area.
Food Service – Large-scale (> 4k).  Any Commercial use 
engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food 
and beverages for consumption on site and including 
more than 4,000 square feet of seating area.  
f. Industrial Use Cat
egory.  The Industrial use category is 
for businesses engaged in manufacturing, fabrication, 
warehousing, processing, wholesale or disposal of goods, 
products and component parts, and services related to 
these businesses.  These uses typically belong in a special 
district due to their inability to blend with the uses from 
other use categories, except when occurring at the smallest 
scale.
Data Center. A use consisting of buildings or 
structures specifically designed or modified to house 
networked computers and data and transaction 
processing equipment and related infrastructure 
support equipment, including power and cooling 
equipment. A data center may be used to provide 
data and transaction processing services, outsource 
information  technology services and/or computer 
equipment colocation services. A data center may 
also include buildings or structures that support 
the operation of the data center including retrofit 
buildings, warehousing for logistics, independent 
network buildings, buildings for support staff, and 
Exhibit A page 7 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 31
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
or facility.  This category is based on the need of different 
kinds and classes of buildings in close proximity with other 
uses, which can be buffered from the adjacent areas they 
serve with the appropriate site design, or alternatively 
which can be located in special purpose districts and still 
serve the public interest.  
Commercial or Public Parking Facility.  A Public Service 
use where land and buildings are used for hourly or 
daily parking of passenger vehicles that serves other 
uses, sites and buildings in the vicinity.  The parking 
services may be owned by the government or owned 
and operated as a business.
Government Facility.  A facility or area of land 
controlled and/or operated by a government entity 
to aid in providing a service to the citizens under the 
jurisdiction of that entity.  
 
Military.   A Public Service use where land and buildings 
are used for operations of the United States Armed 
Forces.
Recycling Services.  A Public Service use where land and 
buildings are used for the public drop-off, storage, and 
packaging of recyclable materials.  Processing may 
occur on site, or materials may be shipped to other 
industrial sites for further processing.
Transportation Facilities. A Public Service use engaged 
in the business of offering transportation services to 
the public, such as airport terminals, bus stations, train 
stations, taxi stations, parking garages, bicycle depots 
or similar facilities for common storage personal 
vehicles or common boarding of public vehicles.
Utility Stations.  A Public Service use where land is 
used for the concentrated location of fixed equipment 
necessary to serve adjacent areas with utility service, 
including other accessory buildings and facilities 
essential to the operation of the equipment.
h. Agriculture Uses.
  The Agriculture use category is for uses 
that are commonly associated with an agrarian or rustic 
lifestyle, and which demand little or no public infrastructure 
or services.
General Agriculture.  The production of grain, animals, 
food and fiber; the science and art of farming and 
Limited Outdoor Storage.    A use where less than 50% of 
the lot is used to store equipment and other materials 
customarily used in the operations associated with the 
principal use of the property in an unenclosed area.
Outdoor Storage.    A use not classified as Limited 
Outdoor Storage where property is used to store 
equipment, vehicles, or other materials in an 
unenclosed area.
Impoundment Yards.  An industrial use where a 
government agency establishes and operates a fenced 
yard or enclosed area where storage of vehicles seized 
by, and in the custody of, the government agency, are 
stored for retrieval by the vehicle owner or are sold by 
proper means by the agency. 
Salvage Yards.   An Industrial use where materials are 
extracted from unusable equipment, structures, or 
vehicles and stored for future use or resale.
Junk Yards.  An Industrial use where waste or used 
material are bought, sold, exchanged, stored or 
processed for disposal.
Pet Crematory.  An Industrial use where land and 
buildings are used for the preparation and processing 
of deceased domestic animals.
Air Cargo Terminals. An Industrial use where land 
and buildings are used for the storage of airplanes, 
airplane cargo or other facilities associated with air 
transportation or air shipping.
Aircraft Sales, Repair, Service, Storage.  An Industrial 
use where land and buildings are used for keeping 
inventory related to aircraft sales or for the storage 
and maintenance of aircraft.
Railroad Yards and Maintenance Buildings.   An Industrial 
use where land and buildings are used for the storage 
of rail cars, rail cargo or other facilities associated with 
rail transportation or rail shipping.
g. Public Ser
vice Uses. The Public Service use category is 
for businesses or government entities engaged providing 
technical and operational services that serve the general 
public and community interest to enhance general health, 
safety, welfare and convenience for landowners and 
residents, and that serve interests beyond the specific site 
Exhibit A page 8 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 32
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
1.4.5 Interpretation of Zoning Map
Where uncertain
ty exists with respect to any of the boundaries 
of a zoning district as shown on the zoning map, the following 
rules shall apply:
a. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated as approximately
following the centerlines of streets or highways or railroad
right-of-way lines or the lines extended, they shall be
construed to be the boundaries.
b. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated as approximately
following the corporate limit line of the City, the corporate
limit line shall be construed to be the boundaries.
c. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated as approximately
following property lines or the lines extended, the property 
lines or the lines extended shall be construed to be the
boundaries.
d. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated as approximately
following the centerline of stream beds or riverbeds, the
centerlines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
e. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated on unplatted
properties, the line shall be interpreted as the ten (10) acre
tract line created by the federal government under the
Public Lands Survey, unless otherwise noted.
f. Each zoning map page indicates from quart
er section to
four sections, with most pages showing only one section.
When the zoning district designation is not shown on the
section line or the edge boundary on any individual map,
it shall be construed to be the edge boundary.
1.4.6 Interpretation of C
omprehensive Plan and Future 
Land Use Maps
Where these regulations refer to the Comprehensive Plan, land 
use categories, or future land use maps, this shall include maps 
associated with the officially adopted Comprehensive Plan for 
the City.  The maps shall be interpreted as follows:
a. The maps are a general fr
amework and guide for decision-
making, and do not pre-determine any specific use of land
or buildings, or application of any zoning category.
b. The maps shall be interpreted and future zoning shall
be consistent with the concepts, policies, principles and
strategies in the plan, including descriptions of categories
ranching; and the work of cultivating the soil, producing 
crops and raising livestock. General Agriculture 
specifically excludes concentrated feeding operations 
where swine are confined, fed and maintained for 45 
consecutive days or more in any 12-month period.
Limited Agriculture. The production of grain, animals, 
food and fiber on a small scale where any impacts on 
potential adjacent property from storage, operations, 
and equipment can be internalized into the site or 
buffered from abutting areas, typically not occurring 
on lots or parcels larger than 10 acres.
Agricultural Equipment and Supply.  An Agriculture use 
where the land and buildings are used for retail sales of 
equipment and materials used for agricultural-related 
land uses, and accessory servicing of agriculture 
equipment.
Agriculture Product Sales / Farmers Market.   An  
Agriculture use where land and buildings are used for 
the retail sale of agricultural products and operated 
without any additional or permanent site facilities than 
are otherwise associated with agriculture use.  Road 
side stands, truck sales, or barn sales are examples 
of such uses, however the intensity and frequency of 
such sales shall be so that no additional parking, roads, 
structures, warehouses, or other storage facilities are 
necessary on the site.
Arenas and Show Barns. An Agriculture use where 
the land and buildings are used for show or sale of 
livestock, and where the public can attend these and 
other related activities.
Commercial Stables.   An Agriculture use where land 
and buildings are used for the business of boarding 
horses, donkeys, mules, burros, llamas or other similar 
equine animals.
Nurseries, Landscaping. An Agriculture use to grow 
plants of any kind for transplanting to another location 
or for sale as live plants rather than as crops, including 
the sale of related equipment and supplies.
Work Camps. A residential facility constructed 
by an employer used to house employees 
and dependents in accommodations which 
are temporary in design and site location.
Exhibit A page 9 of 9
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 3
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
need to work closely together in determining the appropriate 
category for a specific use.
Uses are allowed in various zoning districts as either “permitted 
by right” (P), “permitted after administrative review” (A), or 
“permitted after conditional discretionary review” (C), as 
indicated in Table 5-1.  The procedures and general criteria for 
these reviews are included in Article 2.  
Form-based Code Districts*
T-1 Natural
T-2 Rural
T-3 Suburban
T-4 General Urban
T-5 Urban Center
T-6 Urban Core
D District
CS Civic Space
*  F
orm-based code districts are subject to a Regulating Plan, and the 
procedures and district standards in Article 7.  Each district may further be 
limited with respect to uses by L (limited), R (restricted), and O (open) based 
on a specific Regulating Plan.
5.1.3   O fficial Zoning Map
The boundaries of the zoning districts in the City are established 
as shown on a map entitled City of Cheyenne zoning map. The 
City of Cheyenne zoning map is on file and maintained at the 
office of the City Engineer. The City of Cheyenne zoning map 
will bear the signature of the City Engineer, and will be updated 
in accordance with such zoning ordinance amendments as may 
be enacted from time to time by the governing body. The City 
of Cheyenne zoning map, as amended, together with the most 
recently adopted edition of the FEMA flood insurance rate map, 
including the designation of zoning districts are incorporated 
in this code. Copies of the map are on file at the office of the 
City Clerk and development office. Any conflict among the 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the most recent update on 
file at the office of the City Engineer.  Any conflicts between the 
FEMA flood insurance rate maps and the City or County zoning 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the FEMA flood insurance rate 
maps.
5.1.4  
 D
istricts and Uses 
Uses have been grouped in general categories, wherever 
possible. The categories are meant to allow discretion in 
determining permitted uses. Some uses are more specifically 
listed because of anticipated impacts associated with the use 
which warrant special treatment with respect to which district 
they are allowed in or special review procedures and standards 
that make the use compatible with certain districts. These 
cannot be included in the general categories and they require 
the approval process as indicated. Applicants and staff will 
Exihibit B page 1 of 4
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 4
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
P = Use permitted by right A = use per mitted after administrative review  C = U se permitted after conditional discretionary review  
(blank = pr
ohibited use)
tAble 5-1:  ZoninG distriCt Uses
ZoninG distriCts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  CAteGory of Uses / speCifiC Uses
Residential Uses
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Detached Dwelling P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”) P P P P P P P P P P
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse”) P P P P P P P P
Cottage Lots C C C C P P P P P P
Group Housing C C C C C C C C C C C C C C P
Dormitories C A P P P P
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”) C P
P/C P C
P/C P P P
Live/Work C P C A P P P P P P C P
Mixed-use Dwelling P P P P P P C P
Accessory Dwelling A A A A A A A A A A A A P
Urban Loft Building C P C C C P P
Manufactured housing parks C C C C P
Civic Uses
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy) C C C C C C A A A A A P C C A A A C P
Community Assembly (350  - 1000  maximum occupancy) A A P C C A A A C P
Cemeteries A A A P C C A A A P
Primary and secondary schools C C C C C C C C C A A P P A A A C P
Educational facilities P P P A A C P
Community Athletic Field C C C C C C A A P A A A P P
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium C C C C C P P
Service Uses
Service Business - Limited P P P A P P P P
Service Business - General C P P C C P P
Assisted Living / Nursing Home C C C C C A C C C C C P P P P P
Animal Care - Kennel P C P P P P
Animal Care – Hospital / Clinic C C C P C C P
Family Child Care Home (FCCH) P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Family Child Care Center (FCCC) A A A A A A A A A P P P A P P P
Child Care Center (CCC) A C A C C C C C C P P P C P P P P
Emergency Shelter P C
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C P P P A C P P P P                               
Exihibit B page 2 of 4
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 5
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
tAble 5-1:  ZoninG distriCt Uses
ZoninG distriCts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  CAteGory of Uses / speCifiC Uses
Services Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C C C C C A C C A C C C P P
Entertainment, Venue (1000+ maximum occupancy) C C C A A C A C C P P
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation—Other C C C C P C C C C C C P
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast P A A C C C C A P P P P P
Lodging, Hotel / Motel P P P P P P
Medical Care, Clinic and Office P P P C P P P P
Medical Care, Hospital P P P P
Mini Storage C C P C P P C C P
Storage, Yard C P C P
Employment Uses P
Home occupations P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Office – Limited (<3,500) C A C A P P P P P P P P P P
Office – general (3,500 – 20K) C C P P P P A P P P P
Office – Major Office Complex (>20K) P P P P P P P P
Commercial Uses
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k) P P P P A P P P P
Neighborhood Retail (2K - 5K) P P P P A P P P P
General Retail (5K -  25K) P P P P A P P
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K) P P P P C P P
Warehouse Retail (> 100K) P P P P P P
Grocery Store <45K P P P P P P P P
Supermarket  > 45K P P P P C P P
Outdoor Sales, Limited A P A A A A C P
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales C C C C C P
Bars and liquor stores C C P A C C P P
Automobile Service Repair C P C P P C C P P
Automobile Service Station - Limited C P C P P C C P P P
Automobile Service Station - General P C P P C P P
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale C C P P P
Exihibit B page 3 of 4
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 6
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
tAble 5-1:  ZoninG distriCt Uses
ZoninG distriCts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  CAteGory of Uses / speCifiC Uses
Commercial Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Food Service – Limited (under 2K) P P P P P P P P P
Food Service – General (2K – 4K) C P P P P P P P
Food Service – Large-scale (over 4k) P P P P P P
Industrial Uses
Data Center C C C P P C P P
Limited Industrial A A P P P P A P P P P
Moderate Industrial C P P C P P P
General Industrial C P P C
Industrial C C C
Limited Outdoor Storage P P C A P C
Outdoor Storage C P C C
Impoundment Yards P P C C C
Salvage yards C C C
Junk yards C C
Air cargo terminals P C
Aircraft sales, repair, service, storage and relating uses P C
Railroad yards and maintenance buildings P P P C
Public Service Uses
Commercial and Public Parking Facility P P P P P P
Government Facility P P P P P P P P P P P P
Military P P
Recycling Services C P P C C C P
Transportation facilities C P P P P P P
Utility Stations A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A P A P
Agriculture Uses
General Agriculture P P P
Limited Agriculture P P P P
Agricultural equipment or product sales C P
Commercial stables, arenas, and show barns C C P
Nurseries, landscaping P P C P P C P
Work Camps C P
Exihibit B page 4 of 4
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: "AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 1.4.4, 5.1 .4, AND 5.7.10 OF 
THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TO REMOVE THE LAND USE 
TERM 'WORK CAMPS ' AND PROHIBIT THEIR ESTABLISHMENT 
WITHIN THE CITY" 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1.  That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
that is the subject of this ordinance meets the criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the Unified 
Development Code of the City of Cheyenne (UDC). 
 
Section 2 .  That on February 3, 2025 , the Planning Commission conducted a public 
hearing, reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text 
amendment. 
 
Section 3.  That Section 1.4.4 of the UDC is amended to read as shown in Exhibit A, which 
is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Section 4.  That Section 5.1.4 of the UDC is amended to read as shown in Exhibit B, which 
is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Section 5.  That Section 5.7.10 of the UDC is hereby amended to read:  
 
5.7.10 Work Camps [RESERVED] 
 
Work camps may be approved by the Board in the AG, and AR  districts if the following  
requirements are met: 
 
a. All applicable requirements of the Wyoming Industrial  Development Information and Siting 
Act (Wyo. Stat.,  Sections 35-12-101 through 121, 1977 Revised Edition)  shall be complied 
with even though the project that the work camp is associated with may not meet the minimum 
requirement of that Act. 
 
b. No facility shall be constructed or occupied unless the  person desiring to construct the work 
camp shall execute a contract with the City. The contract shall define, but is not limited to, the 
services to be provided, the length of time  the use shall be permitted, and the plans for reuse 
of the land once the work camp is closed. 
 
Section 6.  Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any of the remaining 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
Page 2 of 2 
 
 Section 7.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
 
(SEAL) 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 24
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
with limited capacities and the associated hardware, such as 
transformers, relays and shut-off valves. They also consist of 
traffic-control boxes and traffic signal installations. 
Utility Facilities. Any utility facility, whether or not regulated by 
the Wyoming Public Service Commission, not described as an 
essential service utility. 
Wall, Retaining. A physical barrier necessary to prevent erosion 
and/or retain earth. 
Water Quality Capture Volume (WQCV).  Represents runoff from 
frequent storm events such as the 80th percentile storm.  The 
volume varies depending on local rainfall data.  The WQCV is 
based on runoff from 0.6 inches of precipitation (approximately 
0.5 inches of runoff ).
Water System.  A public or private system of providing potable 
water to a structure for domestic use. 
Woonerf. A street designed for use by pedestrian and vehicular 
traffic, where the pedestrian has the right-of-way.
WyDEQ. The Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality.
1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings
This sec
tion contains general descriptions associated with the 
uses of land and buildings. It is organized according to categories 
of uses and specific types of uses within each category. These 
categories and types correspond to the Use Table in Article 5, 
Zoning Regulations. Where a use appears to meet two or more 
descriptions or where a use is not described, the Director shall 
make a determination.  If a use meets all of the characteristics of 
a use category and use type, or is so similar to a described use 
type as to create no anticipated differential impact, the Director 
may interpret that the described use includes the additional 
use. In making this determination, the Director shall compare: 
(a) the intensity and scale of the use relative to the site; (b) the
typical site and building designs associated with the use; (c)
the functional or operational characteristics and the potential
impacts of the use on adjacent property; and (d) the potential
contribution of the use to the overall character of the district or
districts in which the comparable use is allowed.  All other uses
which cannot be interpreted in this manner are different from
the described uses, are not anticipated by these regulations,
and may only be allowed by a zoning text amendment.
Street, Local.  Refers to the functional classification of a street in 
the entire transportation network, which has limited continuity 
except for short distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the 
context, the standards in these regulations, and other specific 
transportation plans and policies.
Structure.   That which is built or constructed, an edifice, or 
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up 
or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner. 
Tiedown.  Any device designed to anchor a manufactured home 
or any other accessory building or structure to the ground. 
Temporary Use.   A use or activity that is intended to occupy the 
site on a non-continuous basis for more than 14 days.
Tower. Any structure that is designed and constructed 
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas 
for telephone, radio and similar communication purposes, 
including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers or 
monopole towers. The term includes, but is not limited to, 
radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, 
common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative 
tower structures and any tower support.
Tract.   A unit of land established by a plat or otherwise as 
permitted by law, designated for limited or no development as 
part of an approved plan for a legitimate public or community 
purpose and designated for public or common ownership and 
maintenance.
Traffic-control Devices.  Signs, signals, markings, or other 
approved geometric designs in the roadway approved by the 
public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of 
regulating, warning, guiding, or calming traffic.
Triple frontage lot. See “Lot, triple frontage. ”
Unit Space. A designated portion of a manufactured home park 
for the accommodation of one manufactured home. 
Urban Drainage and Flood Control District (UDFCD). The 
metropolitan Denver drainage organization. 
Utilities, Essential Services. Those utility facilities that provide 
end user services to customers. They include local distribution 
and collection lines for gas, electricity, water, sewer, telephone 
or cable TV services throughout neighborhoods and connect 
with each customer. They consist of cables, wires or pipes 
Exhibit A page 1 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 25
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
to a resident or residents. Examples of Group Housing 
include, but are not limited to, homes for elders and 
disabled or mobility- impaired persons, homes for 
rehabilitation from drugs or alcohol addiction, or 
homes for formerly incarcerated persons. The Group 
Housing use is subject to the provisions of Section 
5.7.5.d and e of the UDC.
Dormitories. A Residential use in a building that 
provides sleeping accommodations for a number of 
people.
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”). A Residential 
use in a building designed for more than two principal 
dwelling units and situated on a single fee simple lot.  
This building type includes a variety of variations based 
on the permitted building scale, including “stacked 
flats” (3-story/tri-plex), “six-plex” (paired stacked flats), 
or larger apartment buildings.  
Live/Work.  A primarily residential use in a building 
designed for two principal uses, where a portion is 
designed for residential dwelling use, and a portion is 
designed for a limited non-residential use to support 
the occupation or vocation of the resident of the 
dwelling unit.  The non-residential portion is limited to 
the 1st story and less than 50% of the total floor area 
of the building. The building is situated on its own fee 
simple lot but may be attached or detached based on 
zoning district standards and context.  
Mixed-use Dwelling.  A Residential use in a building 
designed for a mix of uses with office or retail on the 
1st story / street-front and residential uses on the upper 
stories where the dwelling units are not accessory to 
the non-residential uses.  Mixed-use buildings may be 
either small- or large-scale, with larger scale buildings, 
depending on the context and zoning district 
standards, and typically being broken into multiple 
fee simple lots with party walls, but the dwelling units 
may be owned in fee simple, as condominiums, or 
apartments.
Accessory Dwelling. A separate dwelling unit that is 
associated with, incidental to, and subordinate to 
another dwelling unit as the principal use, and is 
located on the same lot as the principal dwelling 
(commonly referred to as “In-laws Quarters” or “Garage 
Apartment”).
a. Residential Uses. 
 The Residential use category is for all 
types of dwelling units used for permanent residence, 
including a variety of lot types, building types, and unit 
types, that may vary in the kind and classes of buildings 
based on the character of the neighborhood. 
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse” / “Rowhouse”).  A 
Residential use in a building designed with a series of 
attached principal dwelling units separated by a single 
common wall.  Each unit is typically situated on its own 
fee simple lot where party walls are used, but buildings 
or grounds may be owned in common. Each unit has 
the same orientation and front façade, and has its own 
private entrance to the exterior of the structure. 
Detached Dwelling. A Residential use in a detached 
building designed as a single principal dwelling unit 
and situated on its own fee simple lot.
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”).  A Residential use 
in a detached building designed as two principal 
dwelling units. It may be designed as a “paired house, ” 
matching the appearance of a house, or it may be 
designed as a “flat-over-flat, ” matching the appearance 
of a small apartment building.  A duplex is situated on 
its own fee simple lot, but each unit of a side-by-side 
paired house may be platted on an individual lot if 
party walls are used.
Cottage Lot. A Residential use utilizing detached 
dwellings, semi-attached dwellings, or attached 
dwellings designed to face a common area (typically 
open space) with other shared facilities (such as 
shared public street access, shared parking, shared 
trash collection, etc.). Individual dwelling units may 
be on fee simple lots, a condominium, or on one 
larger ownership parcel. A cottage lot is also known as 
“bungalow court” or “cottage court” . Cottage lots are 
subject to the provisions of UDC Section 6.6.5.   
Group Housing.  A residential use, Group Housing is the 
provision of in-home, 24-hour, 7-days a week custodial 
care for from 1 to 6 individuals living together as a 
single housekeeping unit in a single -family, detached 
dw
elling unit. This maximum number excludes 
staff. This use does not include a household where 
custodial care is provided by a family member to 
from 1 to 6 persons in a single-family, detached 
dwelling unit. Custodial care includes the provision 
of in-home personal assistance, housekeeping 
service, supervision, and limited medical assistance 
Exhibit A page 2 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 26
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
and dedicated for internment purposes, including 
columbaria, crematoria, mausoleums and mortuaries 
when operated in conjunction with and within the 
boundary of such cemetery.
Primary and Secondary Schools.  A Civic use where 
buildings and facilities are used for the education and 
instruction of K through 12 students.
Educational Facilities.  A Civic use where buildings and 
facilities are used for the education and instruction of 
post-secondary students, non-traditional students, or 
continuing education for adult or general population.
Community Athletic Field.  A noncommercial facility 
for active outdoor recreation and organized sports, 
including a facility which is an accessory use to a 
school, but excluding any facility with lighted fields 
or permanent buildings for refreshment stands, locker 
rooms or shower facilities. 
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium.  A facility for 
active outdoor recreation and organized sports which 
includes lighted fields, permanent grandstands, or 
permanent buildings for refreshment stands, locker 
rooms or shower facilities. 
c. Servic
e Uses.  The Service use category is for businesses 
engaged in the exchange of professional skills, advice, 
personal care or other resources, and the nature of the 
exchange generally requires frequent interactions with the 
clients, customers or patrons on the premises, and where 
lots or buildings may require access or exposure to the 
public-at-large.
Service Business – Limited.  A Service use that primarily 
supports adjacent residential uses by providing 
daily services for the convenience of residents, and 
involving less than 3,000 square feet of gross leasable 
area. Examples include post office, bank outlet, barber 
shop or beauty salon, tailor, or other similar services.
Service Business – General.  A Service use that provides 
support for adjacent residential uses or businesses 
which may involve more than 3,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area. Examples include copy centers, 
large banks, or any other similar services that exceed 
the scale of Service Business – Limited.
Assisted Living Facility / Nursing Home.  A Service 
use / institutional occupancy providing residential 
Urban Loft Building. A residential use in a building 
designed for more than two principal dwelling units 
and situated on a single fee simple lot. This building 
type contemplates a taller multifamily building, often 
with parking structured or at grade with the building 
above, located in a walkable, mixed use context.
Manufactured housing parks. An area of land under 
one fee ownership, where designated spaces for 
manufactured home are rented for use as a principal 
dwelling unit, and which may provide associated 
facilities for common use.
b. Civic Uses.
 The Civic use category includes uses serving 
a broad and general public and community interest to 
enhance daily cultural, social or recreation opportunities 
for area landowners and residents.  This category is based 
on the need of different kinds and classes of buildings in 
close proximity with other uses, which can be integrated in 
to these areas with the appropriate level of civic design.  The 
Civic use category may contain uses that are either public 
and accessible to all citizens; common and accessible by 
rights associated with ownership; or private and accessible 
by membership or general association.
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy).  A 
Civic use that conducts organized services, assemblies, 
or programs on a periodic or occasional basis, primarily 
for the convenience, entertainment, education, 
and social or spiritual welfare of nearby residents.  
Neighborhood Assemblies typically have buildings 
and supporting facilities designed for a capacity of no 
more than 350 people for any one event.  Common 
examples include meeting halls, neighborhood 
association club houses, or smaller neighborhood 
churches.
Community Assembly (350 -1000 maximum occupancy).  
A Civic use that conducts organized services, 
assemblies, or programs on a periodic or occasional 
basis, primarily for the convenience, entertainment, 
education, and social or spiritual welfare for citizens in 
the general vicinity.  Community Assemblies typically 
have buildings and supporting facilities designed for 
a capacity of no more than 1000 people for any one 
event.  Common examples include community centers, 
museum, or large churches. [ For larger assemblies see 
Entertainment, Venue].
Cemeteries.  A Civic use where land is used for the 
burial of the deceased, both human and animals, 
Exhibit A page 3 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 27
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility. A Service 
use where facilities for outdoor sports, entertainment, 
or similar recreation opportunities for participants and 
spectators are offered.  Examples include racetracks, 
driving ranges, music performance venues, or other 
outdoor entertainment venues. 
Entertainment, Venue.  A Service use where music 
concerts, floor shows or other forms of entertainment, 
performances or presentations by persons are provided 
indoors for guests or the general public, which may 
include accessory dining, bar, and similar refreshment 
services.  Examples include concert halls, theatrical 
performance art centers, dinner theaters, other food 
or beverage-serving establishments providing live 
entertainment venues, banquet halls, or auditoriums.
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation Services—Other.  
A Service use primarily engaged in the operation of 
indoor or outdoor entertainment, amusement and 
recreation services not elsewhere classified, such as 
off-track betting, indoor or outdoor shooting range, 
amusement parks, or similar sports or recreation 
venues.
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast.   A Service use where up to 
six guest rooms  are rented, generally for short-term 
occupancy for sleeping, together with limited facilities 
for the accommodations of guests in a home-like 
atmosphere.
Lodging, Hotel or Motel.  A Service use where six or 
more guest rooms are rented, generally for short-
term occupancy for sleeping, together with incidental 
meeting rooms, restaurants and recreation facilities for 
the primary benefit of the guests.
Medical Care, Clinic.  A Service use where physicians, 
dentists, or other health care professionals are 
associated for the purpose of carrying on their 
professions.  A health clinic may include a dental or 
medical laboratory, after hours emergency care, but it 
may not include in-patient care or operating rooms for 
major surgery.
Medical Care, Office.  A Service use where physicians, 
dentists, or other health care professionals carrying on 
their professions. A medical office may include a dental 
or medical laboratory, but may not include in-patient 
care or operating rooms for major surgery and may not 
be open for after-hours emergency care.
accommodations for 7 or more persons to meet the 
needs of the aging, semi-dependent or dependent 
population in a residential environment, together with 
recreation and support services and facilities for the 
benefit of the residents and where any permanent on-
site staff is accessory to the primarily residential use. 
On-site skilled nursing care or medical facilities may 
be provided. An Assisted Living Facility/Nursing Home 
use is subject to the provisions of Section 5.7.5 of the 
UDC. An Assisted Living facility/Nursing Home use, 
pursuant to this definition, does not include a Group 
Housing use or site. An Assisted Living Facility/Nursing 
Home operation may take place within a residential or 
a non-residential structure.
Animal Care, Kennel.  A Service use where domestic 
animals are boarded, bred or sold as a primary business. 
Animal Care, Hospital / Clinic.  A Service use where 
animals are admitted for examination, treatment, 
or health care by a doctor of veterinary medicine, 
which may include kennels, runs or other accessory 
accommodations.
Family Child Care Home (FCCH). A Service use where 
preschool care and education is provided for up to 
10 children within the owner’s primary residence. The 
owner’s infants, toddler and/or children ages three (3) 
to five (5) shall count toward the capacity.
Family Child Care Center (FCCC). A Service use where 
preschool care and education is provided for up to 
15 children within the owner’s primary residence. The 
owner’s infants, toddler and/or children ages three (3) 
to five (5) shall count toward the capacity.
Child Care Center (CCC). A Service use where preschool 
care and education is provided for children on a regular 
basis not located in any person’s residence.
Emergency Shelter. A facility, which provides shelter or 
overnight accommodations and incidental support 
services for persons experiencing homelessness and/
or families on a short-term basis. 
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility. A Service 
use where facilities for indoor sports, entertainment, 
or similar recreation opportunities for participants 
and spectators are offered.  Examples of uses include 
bowling alleys, pool halls, roller skating rinks, swimming 
pools, movie theaters, video or similar gaming venues, 
racquetball courts, or fitness clubs. 
Exhibit A page 4 of 9
Medical Care, Hospital.  A Service use providing  health 
services, primarily for inpatients, and medical or 
surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an 
integral part of the institution such related facilities 
as laboratories, outpatient departments, training 
facilities, central service facilities and staff offices.
Mini Storage. A Service use where a building or 
group of buildings in a controlled  access and f
enced 
compound that contains varying sizes(s) of individual, 
compartmentalized and controlled-access stalls or 
lockers for the storage of a customer’s goods or wares. 
Mini Storage may include individual units accessed 
from inside of a building offered for rent or lease for 
the storage of personal property. It may also include 
parking areas for the storage of vehicles, trailers, 
recreational vehicles, boats, snow mobiles and other 
similar items as an accessory use. Outdoor storage, 
or the storage of junk, explosives, or flammable 
materials and other noxious or dangerous materials 
are specifically prohibited.
Storage, Yard.  A Service use where exterior yards are 
leased for the outdoor storage of large-item personal 
property such as boats or recreational vehicles.
d. Employment Uses
. The Employment use category is 
for businesses engaged in administrative, clerical, and 
professional operations and support, where products or 
services are of the nature that generally, when compared 
to Retail Use Types, do not require daily on-premise 
interactions with the clients, customers or patrons, and 
where lots and buildings are not primarily designed to 
maximize exposure to the public-at-large.  
Home Occupation. A business which is carried on 
entirely within a legal or legal non-conforming 
dwelling or allowed accessory building, and which 
is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the 
premises as a dwelling.
Office - Limited. An Employment use which is not an 
accessory to another use, but limited individual units 
of gross leasable area are less than 3,500 square feet, 
and where each owner or tenant typically employs 
less than 20 employees on premises.   Examples 
include small-scale professional service offices such 
as accountants, architects, insurance, law, real estate, 
or other similar businesses which can operate within 
the unit square footage and employee limits of this 
category. 
Office - General.  An Employment use where individual 
units of gross leasable area are between 3,500 and 
20,000 square feet, and where each owner or tenant 
typically employs between 20 and 100 employees on 
premises.  Examples include large professional service 
offices such as accountants, architects, insurance, law, 
real estate, or other similar businesses which exceed 
the Office - Limited category, or other moderate size 
business or corporate employment operations.
Major Office or Office Complex.  An Employment use 
where individual units of gross leasable area may 
be more than 20,000 square feet in a single building 
or group of buildings, and each owner or tenant 
may typically employ more than 100 employees on 
premises.  Examples include major professional service 
firms or large corporate offices.
e. Commercial Uses
. The Commercial use category is for 
businesses engaged in the exchange of merchandise for 
general consumers, and nature of the exchange generally 
requires frequent interactions with the clients, customers 
or patrons on the premises, where lots or buildings are 
primarily designed for exposure to the public-at-large.
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k).  A Commercial 
use primarily engaged in the small-scale sale of 
household merchandise and general consumer 
products and involving less than 2,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area.  Convenience Retail / Corner Store 
uses are characterized by target market areas of less 
than 1/4 mile radius for most of its on-premise sales or 
are associated accessory to an employment or service 
business.
Neighborhood Retail (<5K).  A Commercial use 
primarily engaged in the small-scale sale of household 
merchandise and general consumer products and 
involving less than 5,000 square feet of gross leasable 
area.  Neighborhood retail uses are characterized by a 
target market area of less than ½ mile radius for most 
of its on premise sales.
General Retail (5K -  25K).  A Commercial use primarily 
engaged in the sale of household merchandise, 
specialty merchandise, and consumer products 
and involving between 5,000 and 25,000 square 
feet of gross leasable area.  General Retail uses are 
characterized by a target market area of less than 1 
mile radius for most of its on-premise sales.
ArtiCle 1
GenerAl provisions
ArtiCle 1
GenerAl provisions 1.4     interpretAtion1.4     interpretAtion
1 - 28Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Exhibit A page 5 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 29
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Commercial use.  This display is further limited by the 
following:  (1) it only occurs during regular business 
hours and is brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent 
to less than 20% of the entire merchandise area of the 
Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sales 
or events lasting no longer than one month at a time 
with at least 2 months between consecutive events.
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area.  The display of 
merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior private 
area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
Commercial use that does not meet the limitations of 
Limited or Seasonal Outdoor Sales, and which may 
require areas to be designed and dedicated for display 
when part of the permanent operations of an interior 
retail business. Examples include lumber yards and 
garden centers.
Outdoor Sales.   The display and sale of merchandise 
where the primary business is generated by 
merchandise displayed permanently and year round 
on an exterior portion of the site. Examples include 
automobile sales and implement sales.
Bars.   A Commercial use primarily engaged in serving 
alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises.  
Any food or entertainment services are generally 
secondary or accessory to the business.
Liquor Store.  A Commercial use engaged primarily in 
the retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption 
off-premises.  The sale of food or accessory beverage 
supplies are generally secondary or accessory to the 
business.
Automobile Repair.  A Commercial use engaged in the 
repair, maintenance, or condition of motor vehicles 
and including the accessory sales of lubricants, parts, 
or accessories.
Automobile Service Station – Limited.   A Commercial 
use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, and may include 
accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair 
services, or maintenance services.  This use is limited 
to no more than 2 fuel pump islands and no more than 
8 fueling stations.
Automobile Service Station – General.  A Commercial 
use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, and may 
include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, 
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K). A Commercial 
use primarily engaged in the sale of household 
merchandise, specialty merchandise or general 
consumer products and involving between 25,000 
and 100,000 square feet of gross leasable area.  Large-
scale Retail uses are characterized by a target market 
area that may be greater than 1 mile radius for the on-
premise component of its sales.
Warehouse Retail (> 100K).  A Commercial use primarily 
engaged in the sale of household merchandise, 
specialty products, general consumer products, 
or wholesale products and involving greater than 
100,000 square feet of gross leasable area.  Warehouse 
Retail uses are characterized by a target market area 
that may be more than 1 mile radius for most of its 
sales.
Grocery Store (<45K).   A Commercial use engaged 
in the retail sale of a broad range of food products 
and limited household products for consumption 
off premises, although some limited areas may be 
dedicated to the on-premise sale and consumption of 
food.  A grocery store involves less than 45,000 square 
feet of gross leasable area and is characterized by a 
target market of less than 1-mile radius.
Supermarket  (> 45K).   A Commercial use engaged in 
the retail sale of a broad range of food and household 
products for consumption off premises, although 
some limited areas may be dedicated to the on-
premise sale and consumption of food. A supermarket 
typically involves more than 45,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area and is characterized by a target 
market of greater than 1-mile radius.
Outdoor Sales, Limited.  The limited display of 
merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior private 
area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
Commercial use.  This display is further limited by the 
following:  (1) it only occurs during regular business 
hours and is brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent 
to less than 10% of the entire merchandise area of the 
Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sales 
or events lasting no longer than one-week at a time 
with at least 4 weeks between consecutive events.
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal.  The limited display of 
merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior private 
area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
Exhibit A page 6 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 30
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
emergency generators. A Data Center shall not 
include activities which consistently produce noise 
discernable at the property line. Should a Data Center 
produce noise discernable at the property line, it shall 
be classified as an Industrial use.
Limited Industrial.  An Industrial use where small-scale 
activities produce no byproducts such as smoke, 
odor, dust or noise discernable from the outside of 
the building in which it is located.  Individual facilities 
typically occupy less than 10,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area and distribution and deliveries 
are commonly made by general consumer delivery 
services, requiring no significant truck access.  A retail, 
showroom, or service component is often associated 
with the use.  Examples include artist studios, metal 
and wood shops, arts and crafts manufacturing, small 
appliance or machine repairs, or other small-scale 
assembly of finished parts or products from previously 
prepared materials.
Moderate Industrial.  An Industrial use where 
byproducts such as smoke, odor, dust or noise are 
not discernable from outside of the building in which 
it is located. Distribution and deliveries can occur 
from general consumer delivery services or limited 
commercial truck access.   Examples include research 
labs or facilities, small electronics or computer 
assembly and manufacturing, furniture assembly. 
General Industrial.  An Industrial use where byproducts 
such as smoke, odor, dust or noise are not discernable 
from beyond the property boundary. Operations may 
require commercial vehicle access for distribution 
and deliveries.  Examples include non-animal food 
processing, commercial warehouses or wholesale 
distribution centers or energy industry services.
Industrial. An Industrial use capable of producing 
significant byproducts discernable from outside the 
building and property including noise, odors, or other 
potentially offensive materials.  Operations may require 
substantial commercial vehicle access for distribution 
and deliveries. Examples include food-processing 
involving animals (large-scale), metal or chemical 
manufacturing, and data centers which consistently 
produce noise discernable at the property line.
repair services, or maintenance services, or accessory 
Convenience Retail.  This use is limited to no more 
than 4 fuel pump islands and no more than 16 fueling 
stations.
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale.  A Commercial 
use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, and may 
include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, 
repair services, or maintenance services, or accessory 
Convenience Retail.  This use may have more than 4 
fuel pump islands and more than 16 fueling stations.
Food Service – Limited (< 2K).  Any Commercial use 
engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food and 
beverages for consumption on-site and including less 
than 2,000 square feet of seating area. 
Food Service – General (2K – 4K).   Any Commercial use 
engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food 
and beverages for consumption on-site and including 
between 2,000 and 4,000 square feet of seating area.
Food Service – Large-scale (> 4k).  Any Commercial use 
engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food 
and beverages for consumption on site and including 
more than 4,000 square feet of seating area.  
f. Industrial Use Cat
egory.  The Industrial use category is 
for businesses engaged in manufacturing, fabrication, 
warehousing, processing, wholesale or disposal of goods, 
products and component parts, and services related to 
these businesses.  These uses typically belong in a special 
district due to their inability to blend with the uses from 
other use categories, except when occurring at the smallest 
scale.
Data Center. A use consisting of buildings or 
structures specifically designed or modified to house 
networked computers and data and transaction 
processing equipment and related infrastructure 
support equipment, including power and cooling 
equipment. A data center may be used to provide 
data and transaction processing services, outsource 
information  technology services and/or computer 
equipment colocation services. A data center may 
also include buildings or structures that support 
the operation of the data center including retrofit 
buildings, warehousing for logistics, independent 
network buildings, buildings for support staff, and 
Exhibit A page 7 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 31
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
or facility.  This category is based on the need of different 
kinds and classes of buildings in close proximity with other 
uses, which can be buffered from the adjacent areas they 
serve with the appropriate site design, or alternatively 
which can be located in special purpose districts and still 
serve the public interest.  
Commercial or Public Parking Facility.  A Public Service 
use where land and buildings are used for hourly or 
daily parking of passenger vehicles that serves other 
uses, sites and buildings in the vicinity.  The parking 
services may be owned by the government or owned 
and operated as a business.
Government Facility.  A facility or area of land 
controlled and/or operated by a government entity 
to aid in providing a service to the citizens under the 
jurisdiction of that entity.  
 
Military.   A Public Service use where land and buildings 
are used for operations of the United States Armed 
Forces.
Recycling Services.  A Public Service use where land and 
buildings are used for the public drop-off, storage, and 
packaging of recyclable materials.  Processing may 
occur on site, or materials may be shipped to other 
industrial sites for further processing.
Transportation Facilities. A Public Service use engaged 
in the business of offering transportation services to 
the public, such as airport terminals, bus stations, train 
stations, taxi stations, parking garages, bicycle depots 
or similar facilities for common storage personal 
vehicles or common boarding of public vehicles.
Utility Stations.  A Public Service use where land is 
used for the concentrated location of fixed equipment 
necessary to serve adjacent areas with utility service, 
including other accessory buildings and facilities 
essential to the operation of the equipment.
h. Agriculture Uses.
  The Agriculture use category is for uses 
that are commonly associated with an agrarian or rustic 
lifestyle, and which demand little or no public infrastructure 
or services.
General Agriculture.  The production of grain, animals, 
food and fiber; the science and art of farming and 
Limited Outdoor Storage.    A use where less than 50% of 
the lot is used to store equipment and other materials 
customarily used in the operations associated with the 
principal use of the property in an unenclosed area.
Outdoor Storage.    A use not classified as Limited 
Outdoor Storage where property is used to store 
equipment, vehicles, or other materials in an 
unenclosed area.
Impoundment Yards.  An industrial use where a 
government agency establishes and operates a fenced 
yard or enclosed area where storage of vehicles seized 
by, and in the custody of, the government agency, are 
stored for retrieval by the vehicle owner or are sold by 
proper means by the agency. 
Salvage Yards.   An Industrial use where materials are 
extracted from unusable equipment, structures, or 
vehicles and stored for future use or resale.
Junk Yards.  An Industrial use where waste or used 
material are bought, sold, exchanged, stored or 
processed for disposal.
Pet Crematory.  An Industrial use where land and 
buildings are used for the preparation and processing 
of deceased domestic animals.
Air Cargo Terminals. An Industrial use where land 
and buildings are used for the storage of airplanes, 
airplane cargo or other facilities associated with air 
transportation or air shipping.
Aircraft Sales, Repair, Service, Storage.  An Industrial 
use where land and buildings are used for keeping 
inventory related to aircraft sales or for the storage 
and maintenance of aircraft.
Railroad Yards and Maintenance Buildings.   An Industrial 
use where land and buildings are used for the storage 
of rail cars, rail cargo or other facilities associated with 
rail transportation or rail shipping.
g. Public Ser
vice Uses. The Public Service use category is 
for businesses or government entities engaged providing 
technical and operational services that serve the general 
public and community interest to enhance general health, 
safety, welfare and convenience for landowners and 
residents, and that serve interests beyond the specific site 
Exhibit A page 8 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 32
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
1.4.5 Interpretation of Zoning Map
Where uncertain
ty exists with respect to any of the boundaries 
of a zoning district as shown on the zoning map, the following 
rules shall apply:
a. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated as approximately
following the centerlines of streets or highways or railroad
right-of-way lines or the lines extended, they shall be
construed to be the boundaries.
b. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated as approximately
following the corporate limit line of the City, the corporate
limit line shall be construed to be the boundaries.
c. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated as approximately
following property lines or the lines extended, the property 
lines or the lines extended shall be construed to be the
boundaries.
d. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated as approximately
following the centerline of stream beds or riverbeds, the
centerlines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
e. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated on unplatted
properties, the line shall be interpreted as the ten (10) acre
tract line created by the federal government under the
Public Lands Survey, unless otherwise noted.
f. Each zoning map page indicates from quart
er section to
four sections, with most pages showing only one section.
When the zoning district designation is not shown on the
section line or the edge boundary on any individual map,
it shall be construed to be the edge boundary.
1.4.6 Interpretation of C
omprehensive Plan and Future 
Land Use Maps
Where these regulations refer to the Comprehensive Plan, land 
use categories, or future land use maps, this shall include maps 
associated with the officially adopted Comprehensive Plan for 
the City.  The maps shall be interpreted as follows:
a. The maps are a general fr
amework and guide for decision-
making, and do not pre-determine any specific use of land
or buildings, or application of any zoning category.
b. The maps shall be interpreted and future zoning shall
be consistent with the concepts, policies, principles and
strategies in the plan, including descriptions of categories
ranching; and the work of cultivating the soil, producing 
crops and raising livestock. General Agriculture 
specifically excludes concentrated feeding operations 
where swine are confined, fed and maintained for 45 
consecutive days or more in any 12-month period.
Limited Agriculture. The production of grain, animals, 
food and fiber on a small scale where any impacts on 
potential adjacent property from storage, operations, 
and equipment can be internalized into the site or 
buffered from abutting areas, typically not occurring 
on lots or parcels larger than 10 acres.
Agricultural Equipment and Supply.  An Agriculture use 
where the land and buildings are used for retail sales of 
equipment and materials used for agricultural-related 
land uses, and accessory servicing of agriculture 
equipment.
Agriculture Product Sales / Farmers Market.   An  
Agriculture use where land and buildings are used for 
the retail sale of agricultural products and operated 
without any additional or permanent site facilities than 
are otherwise associated with agriculture use.  Road 
side stands, truck sales, or barn sales are examples 
of such uses, however the intensity and frequency of 
such sales shall be so that no additional parking, roads, 
structures, warehouses, or other storage facilities are 
necessary on the site.
Arenas and Show Barns. An Agriculture use where 
the land and buildings are used for show or sale of 
livestock, and where the public can attend these and 
other related activities.
Commercial Stables.   An Agriculture use where land 
and buildings are used for the business of boarding 
horses, donkeys, mules, burros, llamas or other similar 
equine animals.
Nurseries, Landscaping. An Agriculture use to grow 
plants of any kind for transplanting to another location 
or for sale as live plants rather than as crops, including 
the sale of related equipment and supplies.
Work Camps. A residential facility constructed 
by an employer used to house employees 
and dependents in accommodations which 
are temporary in design and site location.
Exhibit A page 9 of 9
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 3
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
need to work closely together in determining the appropriate 
category for a specific use.
Uses are allowed in various zoning districts as either “permitted 
by right” (P), “permitted after administrative review” (A), or 
“permitted after conditional discretionary review” (C), as 
indicated in Table 5-1.  The procedures and general criteria for 
these reviews are included in Article 2.  
Form-based Code Districts*
T-1 Natural
T-2 Rural
T-3 Suburban
T-4 General Urban
T-5 Urban Center
T-6 Urban Core
D District
CS Civic Space
*  F
orm-based code districts are subject to a Regulating Plan, and the 
procedures and district standards in Article 7.  Each district may further be 
limited with respect to uses by L (limited), R (restricted), and O (open) based 
on a specific Regulating Plan.
5.1.3   O fficial Zoning Map
The boundaries of the zoning districts in the City are established 
as shown on a map entitled City of Cheyenne zoning map. The 
City of Cheyenne zoning map is on file and maintained at the 
office of the City Engineer. The City of Cheyenne zoning map 
will bear the signature of the City Engineer, and will be updated 
in accordance with such zoning ordinance amendments as may 
be enacted from time to time by the governing body. The City 
of Cheyenne zoning map, as amended, together with the most 
recently adopted edition of the FEMA flood insurance rate map, 
including the designation of zoning districts are incorporated 
in this code. Copies of the map are on file at the office of the 
City Clerk and development office. Any conflict among the 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the most recent update on 
file at the office of the City Engineer.  Any conflicts between the 
FEMA flood insurance rate maps and the City or County zoning 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the FEMA flood insurance rate 
maps.
5.1.4  
 D
istricts and Uses 
Uses have been grouped in general categories, wherever 
possible. The categories are meant to allow discretion in 
determining permitted uses. Some uses are more specifically 
listed because of anticipated impacts associated with the use 
which warrant special treatment with respect to which district 
they are allowed in or special review procedures and standards 
that make the use compatible with certain districts. These 
cannot be included in the general categories and they require 
the approval process as indicated. Applicants and staff will 
Exihibit B page 1 of 4
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 4
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
P = Use permitted by right A = use per mitted after administrative review  C = U se permitted after conditional discretionary review  
(blank = pr
ohibited use)
tAble 5-1:  ZoninG distriCt Uses
ZoninG distriCts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  CAteGory of Uses / speCifiC Uses
Residential Uses
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Detached Dwelling P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”) P P P P P P P P P P
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse”) P P P P P P P P
Cottage Lots C C C C P P P P P P
Group Housing C C C C C C C C C C C C C C P
Dormitories C A P P P P
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”) C P
P/C P C
P/C P P P
Live/Work C P C A P P P P P P C P
Mixed-use Dwelling P P P P P P C P
Accessory Dwelling A A A A A A A A A A A A P
Urban Loft Building C P C C C P P
Manufactured housing parks C C C C P
Civic Uses
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy) C C C C C C A A A A A P C C A A A C P
Community Assembly (350  - 1000  maximum occupancy) A A P C C A A A C P
Cemeteries A A A P C C A A A P
Primary and secondary schools C C C C C C C C C A A P P A A A C P
Educational facilities P P P A A C P
Community Athletic Field C C C C C C A A P A A A P P
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium C C C C C P P
Service Uses
Service Business - Limited P P P A P P P P
Service Business - General C P P C C P P
Assisted Living / Nursing Home C C C C C A C C C C C P P P P P
Animal Care - Kennel P C P P P P
Animal Care – Hospital / Clinic C C C P C C P
Family Child Care Home (FCCH) P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Family Child Care Center (FCCC) A A A A A A A A A P P P A P P P
Child Care Center (CCC) A C A C C C C C C P P P C P P P P
Emergency Shelter P C
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C P P P A C P P P P                               
Exihibit B page 2 of 4
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 5
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
tAble 5-1:  ZoninG distriCt Uses
ZoninG distriCts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  CAteGory of Uses / speCifiC Uses
Services Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C C C C C A C C A C C C P P
Entertainment, Venue (1000+ maximum occupancy) C C C A A C A C C P P
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation—Other C C C C P C C C C C C P
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast P A A C C C C A P P P P P
Lodging, Hotel / Motel P P P P P P
Medical Care, Clinic and Office P P P C P P P P
Medical Care, Hospital P P P P
Mini Storage C C P C P P C C P
Storage, Yard C P C P
Employment Uses P
Home occupations P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Office – Limited (<3,500) C A C A P P P P P P P P P P
Office – general (3,500 – 20K) C C P P P P A P P P P
Office – Major Office Complex (>20K) P P P P P P P P
Commercial Uses
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k) P P P P A P P P P
Neighborhood Retail (2K - 5K) P P P P A P P P P
General Retail (5K -  25K) P P P P A P P
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K) P P P P C P P
Warehouse Retail (> 100K) P P P P P P
Grocery Store <45K P P P P P P P P
Supermarket  > 45K P P P P C P P
Outdoor Sales, Limited A P A A A A C P
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales C C C C C P
Bars and liquor stores C C P A C C P P
Automobile Service Repair C P C P P C C P P
Automobile Service Station - Limited C P C P P C C P P P
Automobile Service Station - General P C P P C P P
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale C C P P P
Exihibit B page 3 of 4
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 6
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
tAble 5-1:  ZoninG distriCt Uses
ZoninG distriCts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  CAteGory of Uses / speCifiC Uses
Commercial Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Food Service – Limited (under 2K) P P P P P P P P P
Food Service – General (2K – 4K) C P P P P P P P
Food Service – Large-scale (over 4k) P P P P P P
Industrial Uses
Data Center C C C P P C P P
Limited Industrial A A P P P P A P P P P
Moderate Industrial C P P C P P P
General Industrial C P P C
Industrial C C C
Limited Outdoor Storage P P C A P C
Outdoor Storage C P C C
Impoundment Yards P P C C C
Salvage yards C C C
Junk yards C C
Air cargo terminals P C
Aircraft sales, repair, service, storage and relating uses P C
Railroad yards and maintenance buildings P P P C
Public Service Uses
Commercial and Public Parking Facility P P P P P P
Government Facility P P P P P P P P P P P P
Military P P
Recycling Services C P P C C C P
Transportation facilities C P P P P P P
Utility Stations A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A P A P
Agriculture Uses
General Agriculture P P P
Limited Agriculture P P P P
Agricultural equipment or product sales C P
Commercial stables, arenas, and show barns C C P
Nurseries, landscaping P P C P P C P
Work Camps C P
Exihibit B page 4 of 4
PLTA-25-1   February 3, 2025 
Planning and Development Office 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282   (Fax) 307-637-6366 
 
 
 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION  
FEBRUARY 3, 2025 
STAFF REPORT  
 
REQUEST:  A text amendment amending the Unified Development Code to remove the land 
use term “Work Camps” and prohibit their establishment within the City  
CASE NUMBER:  PLTA-25-1 
PREPARED BY: Charles W. Bloom, AICP, Planning and Development Director, Planning and 
Development Department 
 
 
RECOMMENDED MOTION:  
 
Move to recommend the Governing Body approve text amendments amending sections 1.4.4, 5.1.4, and 
5.7.10 of the Unified Development code to remove the land use term ‘Work Camps’ and prohibit their 
establishment within the City as outlined in  this staff report  and recommended by staff , noting the 
requests meets the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
 
BACKGROUND: 
 
The City’s Unified Development Code (UDC) was adopted by the Governing Body on January 23, 2012, by 
Ordinance Number 3943 with an effective  date of April 30, 2012.  The Unified Development Code is the 
regulatory document carrying out the vision of PlanCheyenne and is reviewed annually pursuant to UDC 
1.1.7 [Annual Review Requirement] to determine if any particular standard or regulation is timely, 
relevant and adequately addresses current market conditions. In addition to the annual review, the 
Planning and Development Director and City Engineer are authorized under UDC 2.4.1.b.3 to bring 
forward text amendments on their own initiative.  
 
The proposed amendment to the UDC seeks to remove the term and permissibility of Work Camps from 
the Code, effectively prohibiting their establishment within the City limits. This recommendation is being 
brought forward in response to heightened concerns e xpressed by both citizens and councilmembers 
regarding a recent application for a Work Camp in an Agricultural (A G) Zone district. The proposed site 
was located in close proximity to schools and established residential neighborhood s, raising significant 
public safety, compatibility, and quality-of-life issues. 
 
Work Camps, as currently defined in the UDC, are temporary or semi -permanent housing facilities 
primarily used to accommodate transient workers. While these facilities can support economic activities 
in certain contexts, their placement within City limits, especially near sensitive areas such as schools and 
residential communities, has proven contentious. Community members have voiced concerns over 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Planning and Development Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282 (Fax) 307-637-6366 
PLTA-25-1   February 3, 2025 
potential impacts on infrastructure, traffic, noise, property values, and the overall character of the 
affected neighborhoods. Work Camps require that a specific contract be approved by the Governing Body. 
Per the UDC, the contract shall define, but is not limited to, the services to be provided, the length of time 
the use shall be permitted, and the plans for reuse of the land once the work camp is closed. 
 
The use “Work Camps” first appeared in the Cheyenne -Laramie County Zoning Ordinance in 1982 and 
included a required contract by the governing authority with jurisdiction. In 1982 Work Camps were 
allowed throughout the City and County  subject to Board of Adjustment approval and contract. In 1988 
Work Camps were limited to City and County Agricultural and Residential Districts and slight modifications 
to the Work Camps contract requirements were made. The 2012 UDC incorporated the 1998 definition 
and contract requirements of Work Camps. Staff has been unable to determine if Work Camps have 
existed in the City since its inception.   
 
Staff believes that removing the permissibility of Work Camps within the City limits aligns with the City’s 
goals of promoting balanced land use, protecting the character of established neighborhoods, and 
ensuring the welfare of residents. Staff intends to immediately follow up on drafting regulations related 
to campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks – uses that presently are undefined and more suited 
toward facilitating the needs of persons desiring to stay in Work Camps.   
 
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS: 
Attached is the complete language of the amendment in its Ordinance format. A summary of the 
amendments to the UDC are as follows: 
 
1. Deletion of the term and definition of Work Camp from the Definitions section of Article 1. 
2. Deletion of Work Camp and its permissibility from Table 5-1, Zoning District Uses, of section 5.1.4. 
3. Deletion of section 5.7.10 and replacing it with “Reserved.”  
 
REVIEW CRITERIA: 
 
Review of a UDC text amendment shall be measured by the following three (3) criteria of Section 2.4.1.d: 
 
1. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:  
“The amendment is in accordance with general goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan, or 
is necessary to address an emerging issue not anticipated in the Comprehensive Plan and is not 
inconsistent with the plan.” 
 
The proposed amendment addresses an emerging issue not fully anticipated in the 
Comprehensive Plan, but does align with its general goals and policies, specifically responding to 
community desires and concerns. Agricultural zone districts within the City have traditionally been 
viewed as holding zones for short-term uses not exceeding 14 days. This change recognizes that 
Work Camps are more than temporary and  development within these zones as presently set in 
the UDC undermines the intent and purpose of the zone district.  
 
The Comprehensive Plan promotes “Quality Workforce Housing” per Policy 2.5.C, which states 
that work force housing should be  constructed of durable materials that minimize maintenance 
and will stand the test of time, is designed with architectural details that are functional and 
attractive, and designed with a character and scale that is compatible with the surrounding 
neighborhood. Work Camps as regulated by the UDC do not uphold this policy.  
 
This proposed text amendment meets this criterion. 
PLTA-25-1   February 3, 2025 
2. STATE STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS:  
The amendment is consistent with the Wyoming Statutes, and specifically the Municipal Planning 
and Zoning statutes. The following Articles are all listed verbatim from Wyoming State Statute. 
 
WYO 15-1-601. The governing body of any city or town, by ordinance, may: 
 
(d) All regulations shall be made: 
(i) In accordance with a comprehensive plan and 
designed to: 
(A) Lessen congestion in the streets; 
(B) Secure safety from fire, panic and other 
dangers; 
(C) Promote health and general welfare; 
(D) Provide adequate light and air; 
(E) Prevent the overcrowding of land; 
(F) Avoid undue concentration of population; 
and 
(G) Facilitate adequate provisions for 
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks 
and other public requirements. 
 
Assessment: This amendment proposes  amending the zoning code in accordance with the 
comprehensive plan and is in accordance with the purposes of state statute.  
 
3. HEALTH, SAFETY, AND PUBLIC WELFARE:  
“The amendment promotes the general health, safety and public welfare.” 
 
This amendment provides for a zone district tailored to the large business parks on the edges of 
the community. These parks provide economic benefits to the City, but the application of urban-
level codes to these suburban-style (or even rural/exurban-style) areas has created challenges for 
development. Regulations and separation of uses that may be applicable in areas with large 
quantities of dense residential development may not be as necessary when applied to the large 
distances involved with business parks.    
 
 
CONCLUSION:  
 
Staff concludes that this text amendment meets the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d. 
 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:  
 
Staff recommends approval of text amendments amending sections 1.4.4, 5.1.4, and 5.7.10 of the Unified 
Development Code to remove the land use term ‘Work Camps’ and prohibit their establishment within 
the City as outlined in this staff report, noting the requests meets the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
 
Attachments: 
1. Proposed Ordinance 
 
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: "AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION S 1.4.4, 5.1.4, AND 5.7.10 OF 
THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TO REMOVE THE LAND USE 
TERM ‘WORK CAMPS ’ AND PROHIBIT THEIR ESTABLISHMENT 
WITHIN THE CITY" 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1.  That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
that is the subject of this ordinance meets the criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the Unified 
Development Code of the City of Cheyenne (UDC). 
 
Section 2 .  That on February 3, 2025, the Planning Commission conducted a public 
hearing, reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text 
amendment. 
 
Section 3.  That section 1.4.4 of the UDC is amended to read as shown in Exhibit A, which 
is attached hereto and incorporated herein;  
 
Section 4.  That section 5.1.4 of the UDC is amended to read as shown in Exhibit B, which 
is attached hereto and incorporated herein;  
 
Section 5.  That section 5.7.10 of the UDC, is hereby amended to read as follows:  
 
 “5.7.10 [RESERVED]Work Camps 
 
Work camps may be approved by the Board in the AG, and AR districts if the following 
requirements are met:  
 
a.  All applicable requirements of the Wyoming Industrial Development Information 
and Siting Act (Wyo. Stat., Sections 35-12-101 through 121, 1977 Revised 
Edition) shall be complied with even though the project that the work camp is 
associated with may not meet the minimum requirement of that Act. 
 
b.  No facility shall be constructed or occupied unless the person desiring to construct 
the work camp shall execute a contract with the City. The contract shall define, 
but is not limited to, the services to be provided, the length of time the use shall 
be permitted, and the plans for reuse of the land once the work camp is closed.” 
 
Section 6.  Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any of the remaining 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
 
 Section 7.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
(SEAL) 
 
ATTEST: 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 24
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
with limited capacities and the associated hardware, such as 
transformers, relays and shut-off valves. They also consist of 
traffic-control boxes and traffic signal installations. 
Utility Facilities. Any utility facility, whether or not regulated by 
the Wyoming Public Service Commission, not described as an 
essential service utility. 
Wall, Retaining. A physical barrier necessary to prevent erosion 
and/or retain earth. 
Water Quality Capture Volume (WQCV).  Represents runoff from 
frequent storm events such as the 80th percentile storm.  The 
volume varies depending on local rainfall data.  The WQCV is 
based on runoff from 0.6 inches of precipitation (approximately 
0.5 inches of runoff ).
Water System.  A public or private system of providing potable 
water to a structure for domestic use. 
Woonerf. A street designed for use by pedestrian and vehicular 
traffic, where the pedestrian has the right-of-way.
WyDEQ. The Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality.
1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings
This sec
tion contains general descriptions associated with the 
uses of land and buildings. It is organized according to categories 
of uses and specific types of uses within each category. These 
categories and types correspond to the Use Table in Article 5, 
Zoning Regulations. Where a use appears to meet two or more 
descriptions or where a use is not described, the Director shall 
make a determination.  If a use meets all of the characteristics of 
a use category and use type, or is so similar to a described use 
type as to create no anticipated differential impact, the Director 
may interpret that the described use includes the additional 
use. In making this determination, the Director shall compare: 
(a) the intensity and scale of the use relative to the site; (b) the
typical site and building designs associated with the use; (c)
the functional or operational characteristics and the potential
impacts of the use on adjacent property; and (d) the potential
contribution of the use to the overall character of the district or
districts in which the comparable use is allowed.  All other uses
which cannot be interpreted in this manner are different from
the described uses, are not anticipated by these regulations,
and may only be allowed by a zoning text amendment.
Street, Local.  Refers to the functional classification of a street in 
the entire transportation network, which has limited continuity 
except for short distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the 
context, the standards in these regulations, and other specific 
transportation plans and policies.
Structure.   That which is built or constructed, an edifice, or 
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up 
or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner. 
Tiedown.  Any device designed to anchor a manufactured home 
or any other accessory building or structure to the ground. 
Temporary Use.   A use or activity that is intended to occupy the 
site on a non-continuous basis for more than 14 days.
Tower. Any structure that is designed and constructed 
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas 
for telephone, radio and similar communication purposes, 
including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers or 
monopole towers. The term includes, but is not limited to, 
radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, 
common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative 
tower structures and any tower support.
Tract.   A unit of land established by a plat or otherwise as 
permitted by law, designated for limited or no development as 
part of an approved plan for a legitimate public or community 
purpose and designated for public or common ownership and 
maintenance.
Traffic-control Devices.  Signs, signals, markings, or other 
approved geometric designs in the roadway approved by the 
public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of 
regulating, warning, guiding, or calming traffic.
Triple frontage lot. See “Lot, triple frontage. ”
Unit Space. A designated portion of a manufactured home park 
for the accommodation of one manufactured home. 
Urban Drainage and Flood Control District (UDFCD). The 
metropolitan Denver drainage organization. 
Utilities, Essential Services. Those utility facilities that provide 
end user services to customers. They include local distribution 
and collection lines for gas, electricity, water, sewer, telephone 
or cable TV services throughout neighborhoods and connect 
with each customer. They consist of cables, wires or pipes 
Exhibit A page 1 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 25
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
to a resident or residents. Examples of Group Housing 
include, but are not limited to, homes for elders and 
disabled or mobility- impaired persons, homes for 
rehabilitation from drugs or alcohol addiction, or 
homes for formerly incarcerated persons. The Group 
Housing use is subject to the provisions of Section 
5.7.5.d and e of the UDC.
Dormitories. A Residential use in a building that 
provides sleeping accommodations for a number of 
people.
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”). A Residential 
use in a building designed for more than two principal 
dwelling units and situated on a single fee simple lot.  
This building type includes a variety of variations based 
on the permitted building scale, including “stacked 
flats” (3-story/tri-plex), “six-plex” (paired stacked flats), 
or larger apartment buildings.  
Live/Work.  A primarily residential use in a building 
designed for two principal uses, where a portion is 
designed for residential dwelling use, and a portion is 
designed for a limited non-residential use to support 
the occupation or vocation of the resident of the 
dwelling unit.  The non-residential portion is limited to 
the 1st story and less than 50% of the total floor area 
of the building. The building is situated on its own fee 
simple lot but may be attached or detached based on 
zoning district standards and context.  
Mixed-use Dwelling.  A Residential use in a building 
designed for a mix of uses with office or retail on the 
1st story / street-front and residential uses on the upper 
stories where the dwelling units are not accessory to 
the non-residential uses.  Mixed-use buildings may be 
either small- or large-scale, with larger scale buildings, 
depending on the context and zoning district 
standards, and typically being broken into multiple 
fee simple lots with party walls, but the dwelling units 
may be owned in fee simple, as condominiums, or 
apartments.
Accessory Dwelling. A separate dwelling unit that is 
associated with, incidental to, and subordinate to 
another dwelling unit as the principal use, and is 
located on the same lot as the principal dwelling 
(commonly referred to as “In-laws Quarters” or “Garage 
Apartment”).
a. Residential Uses. 
 The Residential use category is for all 
types of dwelling units used for permanent residence, 
including a variety of lot types, building types, and unit 
types, that may vary in the kind and classes of buildings 
based on the character of the neighborhood. 
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse” / “Rowhouse”).  A 
Residential use in a building designed with a series of 
attached principal dwelling units separated by a single 
common wall.  Each unit is typically situated on its own 
fee simple lot where party walls are used, but buildings 
or grounds may be owned in common. Each unit has 
the same orientation and front façade, and has its own 
private entrance to the exterior of the structure. 
Detached Dwelling. A Residential use in a detached 
building designed as a single principal dwelling unit 
and situated on its own fee simple lot.
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”).  A Residential use 
in a detached building designed as two principal 
dwelling units. It may be designed as a “paired house, ” 
matching the appearance of a house, or it may be 
designed as a “flat-over-flat, ” matching the appearance 
of a small apartment building.  A duplex is situated on 
its own fee simple lot, but each unit of a side-by-side 
paired house may be platted on an individual lot if 
party walls are used.
Cottage Lot. A Residential use utilizing detached 
dwellings, semi-attached dwellings, or attached 
dwellings designed to face a common area (typically 
open space) with other shared facilities (such as 
shared public street access, shared parking, shared 
trash collection, etc.). Individual dwelling units may 
be on fee simple lots, a condominium, or on one 
larger ownership parcel. A cottage lot is also known as 
“bungalow court” or “cottage court” . Cottage lots are 
subject to the provisions of UDC Section 6.6.5.   
Group Housing.  A residential use, Group Housing is the 
provision of in-home, 24-hour, 7-days a week custodial 
care for from 1 to 6 individuals living together as a 
single housekeeping unit in a single -family, detached 
dw
elling unit. This maximum number excludes 
staff. This use does not include a household where 
custodial care is provided by a family member to 
from 1 to 6 persons in a single-family, detached 
dwelling unit. Custodial care includes the provision 
of in-home personal assistance, housekeeping 
service, supervision, and limited medical assistance 
Exhibit A page 2 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 26
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
and dedicated for internment purposes, including 
columbaria, crematoria, mausoleums and mortuaries 
when operated in conjunction with and within the 
boundary of such cemetery.
Primary and Secondary Schools.  A Civic use where 
buildings and facilities are used for the education and 
instruction of K through 12 students.
Educational Facilities.  A Civic use where buildings and 
facilities are used for the education and instruction of 
post-secondary students, non-traditional students, or 
continuing education for adult or general population.
Community Athletic Field.  A noncommercial facility 
for active outdoor recreation and organized sports, 
including a facility which is an accessory use to a 
school, but excluding any facility with lighted fields 
or permanent buildings for refreshment stands, locker 
rooms or shower facilities. 
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium.  A facility for 
active outdoor recreation and organized sports which 
includes lighted fields, permanent grandstands, or 
permanent buildings for refreshment stands, locker 
rooms or shower facilities. 
c. Servic
e Uses.  The Service use category is for businesses 
engaged in the exchange of professional skills, advice, 
personal care or other resources, and the nature of the 
exchange generally requires frequent interactions with the 
clients, customers or patrons on the premises, and where 
lots or buildings may require access or exposure to the 
public-at-large.
Service Business – Limited.  A Service use that primarily 
supports adjacent residential uses by providing 
daily services for the convenience of residents, and 
involving less than 3,000 square feet of gross leasable 
area. Examples include post office, bank outlet, barber 
shop or beauty salon, tailor, or other similar services.
Service Business – General.  A Service use that provides 
support for adjacent residential uses or businesses 
which may involve more than 3,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area. Examples include copy centers, 
large banks, or any other similar services that exceed 
the scale of Service Business – Limited.
Assisted Living Facility / Nursing Home.  A Service 
use / institutional occupancy providing residential 
Urban Loft Building. A residential use in a building 
designed for more than two principal dwelling units 
and situated on a single fee simple lot. This building 
type contemplates a taller multifamily building, often 
with parking structured or at grade with the building 
above, located in a walkable, mixed use context.
Manufactured housing parks. An area of land under 
one fee ownership, where designated spaces for 
manufactured home are rented for use as a principal 
dwelling unit, and which may provide associated 
facilities for common use.
b. Civic Uses.
 The Civic use category includes uses serving 
a broad and general public and community interest to 
enhance daily cultural, social or recreation opportunities 
for area landowners and residents.  This category is based 
on the need of different kinds and classes of buildings in 
close proximity with other uses, which can be integrated in 
to these areas with the appropriate level of civic design.  The 
Civic use category may contain uses that are either public 
and accessible to all citizens; common and accessible by 
rights associated with ownership; or private and accessible 
by membership or general association.
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy).  A 
Civic use that conducts organized services, assemblies, 
or programs on a periodic or occasional basis, primarily 
for the convenience, entertainment, education, 
and social or spiritual welfare of nearby residents.  
Neighborhood Assemblies typically have buildings 
and supporting facilities designed for a capacity of no 
more than 350 people for any one event.  Common 
examples include meeting halls, neighborhood 
association club houses, or smaller neighborhood 
churches.
Community Assembly (350 -1000 maximum occupancy).  
A Civic use that conducts organized services, 
assemblies, or programs on a periodic or occasional 
basis, primarily for the convenience, entertainment, 
education, and social or spiritual welfare for citizens in 
the general vicinity.  Community Assemblies typically 
have buildings and supporting facilities designed for 
a capacity of no more than 1000 people for any one 
event.  Common examples include community centers, 
museum, or large churches. [ For larger assemblies see 
Entertainment, Venue].
Cemeteries.  A Civic use where land is used for the 
burial of the deceased, both human and animals, 
Exhibit A page 3 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 27
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility. A Service 
use where facilities for outdoor sports, entertainment, 
or similar recreation opportunities for participants and 
spectators are offered.  Examples include racetracks, 
driving ranges, music performance venues, or other 
outdoor entertainment venues. 
Entertainment, Venue.  A Service use where music 
concerts, floor shows or other forms of entertainment, 
performances or presentations by persons are provided 
indoors for guests or the general public, which may 
include accessory dining, bar, and similar refreshment 
services.  Examples include concert halls, theatrical 
performance art centers, dinner theaters, other food 
or beverage-serving establishments providing live 
entertainment venues, banquet halls, or auditoriums.
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation Services—Other.  
A Service use primarily engaged in the operation of 
indoor or outdoor entertainment, amusement and 
recreation services not elsewhere classified, such as 
off-track betting, indoor or outdoor shooting range, 
amusement parks, or similar sports or recreation 
venues.
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast.   A Service use where up to 
six guest rooms  are rented, generally for short-term 
occupancy for sleeping, together with limited facilities 
for the accommodations of guests in a home-like 
atmosphere.
Lodging, Hotel or Motel.  A Service use where six or 
more guest rooms are rented, generally for short-
term occupancy for sleeping, together with incidental 
meeting rooms, restaurants and recreation facilities for 
the primary benefit of the guests.
Medical Care, Clinic.  A Service use where physicians, 
dentists, or other health care professionals are 
associated for the purpose of carrying on their 
professions.  A health clinic may include a dental or 
medical laboratory, after hours emergency care, but it 
may not include in-patient care or operating rooms for 
major surgery.
Medical Care, Office.  A Service use where physicians, 
dentists, or other health care professionals carrying on 
their professions. A medical office may include a dental 
or medical laboratory, but may not include in-patient 
care or operating rooms for major surgery and may not 
be open for after-hours emergency care.
accommodations for 7 or more persons to meet the 
needs of the aging, semi-dependent or dependent 
population in a residential environment, together with 
recreation and support services and facilities for the 
benefit of the residents and where any permanent on-
site staff is accessory to the primarily residential use. 
On-site skilled nursing care or medical facilities may 
be provided. An Assisted Living Facility/Nursing Home 
use is subject to the provisions of Section 5.7.5 of the 
UDC. An Assisted Living facility/Nursing Home use, 
pursuant to this definition, does not include a Group 
Housing use or site. An Assisted Living Facility/Nursing 
Home operation may take place within a residential or 
a non-residential structure.
Animal Care, Kennel.  A Service use where domestic 
animals are boarded, bred or sold as a primary business. 
Animal Care, Hospital / Clinic.  A Service use where 
animals are admitted for examination, treatment, 
or health care by a doctor of veterinary medicine, 
which may include kennels, runs or other accessory 
accommodations.
Family Child Care Home (FCCH). A Service use where 
preschool care and education is provided for up to 
10 children within the owner’s primary residence. The 
owner’s infants, toddler and/or children ages three (3) 
to five (5) shall count toward the capacity.
Family Child Care Center (FCCC). A Service use where 
preschool care and education is provided for up to 
15 children within the owner’s primary residence. The 
owner’s infants, toddler and/or children ages three (3) 
to five (5) shall count toward the capacity.
Child Care Center (CCC). A Service use where preschool 
care and education is provided for children on a regular 
basis not located in any person’s residence.
Emergency Shelter. A facility, which provides shelter or 
overnight accommodations and incidental support 
services for persons experiencing homelessness and/
or families on a short-term basis. 
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility. A Service 
use where facilities for indoor sports, entertainment, 
or similar recreation opportunities for participants 
and spectators are offered.  Examples of uses include 
bowling alleys, pool halls, roller skating rinks, swimming 
pools, movie theaters, video or similar gaming venues, 
racquetball courts, or fitness clubs. 
Exhibit A page 4 of 9
Medical Care, Hospital.  A Service use providing  health 
services, primarily for inpatients, and medical or 
surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an 
integral part of the institution such related facilities 
as laboratories, outpatient departments, training 
facilities, central service facilities and staff offices.
Mini Storage. A Service use where a building or 
group of buildings in a controlled  access and f
enced 
compound that contains varying sizes(s) of individual, 
compartmentalized and controlled-access stalls or 
lockers for the storage of a customer’s goods or wares. 
Mini Storage may include individual units accessed 
from inside of a building offered for rent or lease for 
the storage of personal property. It may also include 
parking areas for the storage of vehicles, trailers, 
recreational vehicles, boats, snow mobiles and other 
similar items as an accessory use. Outdoor storage, 
or the storage of junk, explosives, or flammable 
materials and other noxious or dangerous materials 
are specifically prohibited.
Storage, Yard.  A Service use where exterior yards are 
leased for the outdoor storage of large-item personal 
property such as boats or recreational vehicles.
d. Employment Uses
. The Employment use category is 
for businesses engaged in administrative, clerical, and 
professional operations and support, where products or 
services are of the nature that generally, when compared 
to Retail Use Types, do not require daily on-premise 
interactions with the clients, customers or patrons, and 
where lots and buildings are not primarily designed to 
maximize exposure to the public-at-large.  
Home Occupation. A business which is carried on 
entirely within a legal or legal non-conforming 
dwelling or allowed accessory building, and which 
is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the 
premises as a dwelling.
Office - Limited. An Employment use which is not an 
accessory to another use, but limited individual units 
of gross leasable area are less than 3,500 square feet, 
and where each owner or tenant typically employs 
less than 20 employees on premises.   Examples 
include small-scale professional service offices such 
as accountants, architects, insurance, law, real estate, 
or other similar businesses which can operate within 
the unit square footage and employee limits of this 
category. 
Office - General.  An Employment use where individual 
units of gross leasable area are between 3,500 and 
20,000 square feet, and where each owner or tenant 
typically employs between 20 and 100 employees on 
premises.  Examples include large professional service 
offices such as accountants, architects, insurance, law, 
real estate, or other similar businesses which exceed 
the Office - Limited category, or other moderate size 
business or corporate employment operations.
Major Office or Office Complex.  An Employment use 
where individual units of gross leasable area may 
be more than 20,000 square feet in a single building 
or group of buildings, and each owner or tenant 
may typically employ more than 100 employees on 
premises.  Examples include major professional service 
firms or large corporate offices.
e. Commercial Uses
. The Commercial use category is for 
businesses engaged in the exchange of merchandise for 
general consumers, and nature of the exchange generally 
requires frequent interactions with the clients, customers 
or patrons on the premises, where lots or buildings are 
primarily designed for exposure to the public-at-large.
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k).  A Commercial 
use primarily engaged in the small-scale sale of 
household merchandise and general consumer 
products and involving less than 2,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area.  Convenience Retail / Corner Store 
uses are characterized by target market areas of less 
than 1/4 mile radius for most of its on-premise sales or 
are associated accessory to an employment or service 
business.
Neighborhood Retail (<5K).  A Commercial use 
primarily engaged in the small-scale sale of household 
merchandise and general consumer products and 
involving less than 5,000 square feet of gross leasable 
area.  Neighborhood retail uses are characterized by a 
target market area of less than ½ mile radius for most 
of its on premise sales.
General Retail (5K -  25K).  A Commercial use primarily 
engaged in the sale of household merchandise, 
specialty merchandise, and consumer products 
and involving between 5,000 and 25,000 square 
feet of gross leasable area.  General Retail uses are 
characterized by a target market area of less than 1 
mile radius for most of its on-premise sales.
ArtiCle 1
GenerAl provisions
ArtiCle 1
GenerAl provisions 1.4     interpretAtion1.4     interpretAtion
1 - 28Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Exhibit A page 5 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 29
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Commercial use.  This display is further limited by the 
following:  (1) it only occurs during regular business 
hours and is brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent 
to less than 20% of the entire merchandise area of the 
Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sales 
or events lasting no longer than one month at a time 
with at least 2 months between consecutive events.
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area.  The display of 
merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior private 
area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
Commercial use that does not meet the limitations of 
Limited or Seasonal Outdoor Sales, and which may 
require areas to be designed and dedicated for display 
when part of the permanent operations of an interior 
retail business. Examples include lumber yards and 
garden centers.
Outdoor Sales.   The display and sale of merchandise 
where the primary business is generated by 
merchandise displayed permanently and year round 
on an exterior portion of the site. Examples include 
automobile sales and implement sales.
Bars.   A Commercial use primarily engaged in serving 
alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises.  
Any food or entertainment services are generally 
secondary or accessory to the business.
Liquor Store.  A Commercial use engaged primarily in 
the retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption 
off-premises.  The sale of food or accessory beverage 
supplies are generally secondary or accessory to the 
business.
Automobile Repair.  A Commercial use engaged in the 
repair, maintenance, or condition of motor vehicles 
and including the accessory sales of lubricants, parts, 
or accessories.
Automobile Service Station – Limited.   A Commercial 
use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, and may include 
accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair 
services, or maintenance services.  This use is limited 
to no more than 2 fuel pump islands and no more than 
8 fueling stations.
Automobile Service Station – General.  A Commercial 
use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, and may 
include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, 
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K). A Commercial 
use primarily engaged in the sale of household 
merchandise, specialty merchandise or general 
consumer products and involving between 25,000 
and 100,000 square feet of gross leasable area.  Large-
scale Retail uses are characterized by a target market 
area that may be greater than 1 mile radius for the on-
premise component of its sales.
Warehouse Retail (> 100K).  A Commercial use primarily 
engaged in the sale of household merchandise, 
specialty products, general consumer products, 
or wholesale products and involving greater than 
100,000 square feet of gross leasable area.  Warehouse 
Retail uses are characterized by a target market area 
that may be more than 1 mile radius for most of its 
sales.
Grocery Store (<45K).   A Commercial use engaged 
in the retail sale of a broad range of food products 
and limited household products for consumption 
off premises, although some limited areas may be 
dedicated to the on-premise sale and consumption of 
food.  A grocery store involves less than 45,000 square 
feet of gross leasable area and is characterized by a 
target market of less than 1-mile radius.
Supermarket  (> 45K).   A Commercial use engaged in 
the retail sale of a broad range of food and household 
products for consumption off premises, although 
some limited areas may be dedicated to the on-
premise sale and consumption of food. A supermarket 
typically involves more than 45,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area and is characterized by a target 
market of greater than 1-mile radius.
Outdoor Sales, Limited.  The limited display of 
merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior private 
area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
Commercial use.  This display is further limited by the 
following:  (1) it only occurs during regular business 
hours and is brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent 
to less than 10% of the entire merchandise area of the 
Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sales 
or events lasting no longer than one-week at a time 
with at least 4 weeks between consecutive events.
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal.  The limited display of 
merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior private 
area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
Exhibit A page 6 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 30
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
emergency generators. A Data Center shall not 
include activities which consistently produce noise 
discernable at the property line. Should a Data Center 
produce noise discernable at the property line, it shall 
be classified as an Industrial use.
Limited Industrial.  An Industrial use where small-scale 
activities produce no byproducts such as smoke, 
odor, dust or noise discernable from the outside of 
the building in which it is located.  Individual facilities 
typically occupy less than 10,000 square feet of 
gross leasable area and distribution and deliveries 
are commonly made by general consumer delivery 
services, requiring no significant truck access.  A retail, 
showroom, or service component is often associated 
with the use.  Examples include artist studios, metal 
and wood shops, arts and crafts manufacturing, small 
appliance or machine repairs, or other small-scale 
assembly of finished parts or products from previously 
prepared materials.
Moderate Industrial.  An Industrial use where 
byproducts such as smoke, odor, dust or noise are 
not discernable from outside of the building in which 
it is located. Distribution and deliveries can occur 
from general consumer delivery services or limited 
commercial truck access.   Examples include research 
labs or facilities, small electronics or computer 
assembly and manufacturing, furniture assembly. 
General Industrial.  An Industrial use where byproducts 
such as smoke, odor, dust or noise are not discernable 
from beyond the property boundary. Operations may 
require commercial vehicle access for distribution 
and deliveries.  Examples include non-animal food 
processing, commercial warehouses or wholesale 
distribution centers or energy industry services.
Industrial. An Industrial use capable of producing 
significant byproducts discernable from outside the 
building and property including noise, odors, or other 
potentially offensive materials.  Operations may require 
substantial commercial vehicle access for distribution 
and deliveries. Examples include food-processing 
involving animals (large-scale), metal or chemical 
manufacturing, and data centers which consistently 
produce noise discernable at the property line.
repair services, or maintenance services, or accessory 
Convenience Retail.  This use is limited to no more 
than 4 fuel pump islands and no more than 16 fueling 
stations.
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale.  A Commercial 
use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, and may 
include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, 
repair services, or maintenance services, or accessory 
Convenience Retail.  This use may have more than 4 
fuel pump islands and more than 16 fueling stations.
Food Service – Limited (< 2K).  Any Commercial use 
engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food and 
beverages for consumption on-site and including less 
than 2,000 square feet of seating area. 
Food Service – General (2K – 4K).   Any Commercial use 
engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food 
and beverages for consumption on-site and including 
between 2,000 and 4,000 square feet of seating area.
Food Service – Large-scale (> 4k).  Any Commercial use 
engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food 
and beverages for consumption on site and including 
more than 4,000 square feet of seating area.  
f. Industrial Use Cat
egory.  The Industrial use category is 
for businesses engaged in manufacturing, fabrication, 
warehousing, processing, wholesale or disposal of goods, 
products and component parts, and services related to 
these businesses.  These uses typically belong in a special 
district due to their inability to blend with the uses from 
other use categories, except when occurring at the smallest 
scale.
Data Center. A use consisting of buildings or 
structures specifically designed or modified to house 
networked computers and data and transaction 
processing equipment and related infrastructure 
support equipment, including power and cooling 
equipment. A data center may be used to provide 
data and transaction processing services, outsource 
information  technology services and/or computer 
equipment colocation services. A data center may 
also include buildings or structures that support 
the operation of the data center including retrofit 
buildings, warehousing for logistics, independent 
network buildings, buildings for support staff, and 
Exhibit A page 7 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 31
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
or facility.  This category is based on the need of different 
kinds and classes of buildings in close proximity with other 
uses, which can be buffered from the adjacent areas they 
serve with the appropriate site design, or alternatively 
which can be located in special purpose districts and still 
serve the public interest.  
Commercial or Public Parking Facility.  A Public Service 
use where land and buildings are used for hourly or 
daily parking of passenger vehicles that serves other 
uses, sites and buildings in the vicinity.  The parking 
services may be owned by the government or owned 
and operated as a business.
Government Facility.  A facility or area of land 
controlled and/or operated by a government entity 
to aid in providing a service to the citizens under the 
jurisdiction of that entity.  
 
Military.   A Public Service use where land and buildings 
are used for operations of the United States Armed 
Forces.
Recycling Services.  A Public Service use where land and 
buildings are used for the public drop-off, storage, and 
packaging of recyclable materials.  Processing may 
occur on site, or materials may be shipped to other 
industrial sites for further processing.
Transportation Facilities. A Public Service use engaged 
in the business of offering transportation services to 
the public, such as airport terminals, bus stations, train 
stations, taxi stations, parking garages, bicycle depots 
or similar facilities for common storage personal 
vehicles or common boarding of public vehicles.
Utility Stations.  A Public Service use where land is 
used for the concentrated location of fixed equipment 
necessary to serve adjacent areas with utility service, 
including other accessory buildings and facilities 
essential to the operation of the equipment.
h. Agriculture Uses.
  The Agriculture use category is for uses 
that are commonly associated with an agrarian or rustic 
lifestyle, and which demand little or no public infrastructure 
or services.
General Agriculture.  The production of grain, animals, 
food and fiber; the science and art of farming and 
Limited Outdoor Storage.    A use where less than 50% of 
the lot is used to store equipment and other materials 
customarily used in the operations associated with the 
principal use of the property in an unenclosed area.
Outdoor Storage.    A use not classified as Limited 
Outdoor Storage where property is used to store 
equipment, vehicles, or other materials in an 
unenclosed area.
Impoundment Yards.  An industrial use where a 
government agency establishes and operates a fenced 
yard or enclosed area where storage of vehicles seized 
by, and in the custody of, the government agency, are 
stored for retrieval by the vehicle owner or are sold by 
proper means by the agency. 
Salvage Yards.   An Industrial use where materials are 
extracted from unusable equipment, structures, or 
vehicles and stored for future use or resale.
Junk Yards.  An Industrial use where waste or used 
material are bought, sold, exchanged, stored or 
processed for disposal.
Pet Crematory.  An Industrial use where land and 
buildings are used for the preparation and processing 
of deceased domestic animals.
Air Cargo Terminals. An Industrial use where land 
and buildings are used for the storage of airplanes, 
airplane cargo or other facilities associated with air 
transportation or air shipping.
Aircraft Sales, Repair, Service, Storage.  An Industrial 
use where land and buildings are used for keeping 
inventory related to aircraft sales or for the storage 
and maintenance of aircraft.
Railroad Yards and Maintenance Buildings.   An Industrial 
use where land and buildings are used for the storage 
of rail cars, rail cargo or other facilities associated with 
rail transportation or rail shipping.
g. Public Ser
vice Uses. The Public Service use category is 
for businesses or government entities engaged providing 
technical and operational services that serve the general 
public and community interest to enhance general health, 
safety, welfare and convenience for landowners and 
residents, and that serve interests beyond the specific site 
Exhibit A page 8 of 9
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 32
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
1.4.5 Interpretation of Zoning Map
Where uncertain
ty exists with respect to any of the boundaries 
of a zoning district as shown on the zoning map, the following 
rules shall apply:
a. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated as approximately
following the centerlines of streets or highways or railroad
right-of-way lines or the lines extended, they shall be
construed to be the boundaries.
b. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated as approximately
following the corporate limit line of the City, the corporate
limit line shall be construed to be the boundaries.
c. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated as approximately
following property lines or the lines extended, the property 
lines or the lines extended shall be construed to be the
boundaries.
d. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated as approximately
following the centerline of stream beds or riverbeds, the
centerlines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
e. Where district boundaries ar
e indicated on unplatted
properties, the line shall be interpreted as the ten (10) acre
tract line created by the federal government under the
Public Lands Survey, unless otherwise noted.
f. Each zoning map page indicates from quart
er section to
four sections, with most pages showing only one section.
When the zoning district designation is not shown on the
section line or the edge boundary on any individual map,
it shall be construed to be the edge boundary.
1.4.6 Interpretation of C
omprehensive Plan and Future 
Land Use Maps
Where these regulations refer to the Comprehensive Plan, land 
use categories, or future land use maps, this shall include maps 
associated with the officially adopted Comprehensive Plan for 
the City.  The maps shall be interpreted as follows:
a. The maps are a general fr
amework and guide for decision-
making, and do not pre-determine any specific use of land
or buildings, or application of any zoning category.
b. The maps shall be interpreted and future zoning shall
be consistent with the concepts, policies, principles and
strategies in the plan, including descriptions of categories
ranching; and the work of cultivating the soil, producing 
crops and raising livestock. General Agriculture 
specifically excludes concentrated feeding operations 
where swine are confined, fed and maintained for 45 
consecutive days or more in any 12-month period.
Limited Agriculture. The production of grain, animals, 
food and fiber on a small scale where any impacts on 
potential adjacent property from storage, operations, 
and equipment can be internalized into the site or 
buffered from abutting areas, typically not occurring 
on lots or parcels larger than 10 acres.
Agricultural Equipment and Supply.  An Agriculture use 
where the land and buildings are used for retail sales of 
equipment and materials used for agricultural-related 
land uses, and accessory servicing of agriculture 
equipment.
Agriculture Product Sales / Farmers Market.   An  
Agriculture use where land and buildings are used for 
the retail sale of agricultural products and operated 
without any additional or permanent site facilities than 
are otherwise associated with agriculture use.  Road 
side stands, truck sales, or barn sales are examples 
of such uses, however the intensity and frequency of 
such sales shall be so that no additional parking, roads, 
structures, warehouses, or other storage facilities are 
necessary on the site.
Arenas and Show Barns. An Agriculture use where 
the land and buildings are used for show or sale of 
livestock, and where the public can attend these and 
other related activities.
Commercial Stables.   An Agriculture use where land 
and buildings are used for the business of boarding 
horses, donkeys, mules, burros, llamas or other similar 
equine animals.
Nurseries, Landscaping. An Agriculture use to grow 
plants of any kind for transplanting to another location 
or for sale as live plants rather than as crops, including 
the sale of related equipment and supplies.
Work Camps. A residential facility constructed 
by an employer used to house employees 
and dependents in accommodations which 
are temporary in design and site location.
Exhibit A page 9 of 9
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 3
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
need to work closely together in determining the appropriate 
category for a specific use.
Uses are allowed in various zoning districts as either “permitted 
by right” (P), “permitted after administrative review” (A), or 
“permitted after conditional discretionary review” (C), as 
indicated in Table 5-1.  The procedures and general criteria for 
these reviews are included in Article 2.  
Form-based Code Districts*
T-1 Natural
T-2 Rural
T-3 Suburban
T-4 General Urban
T-5 Urban Center
T-6 Urban Core
D District
CS Civic Space
*  F
orm-based code districts are subject to a Regulating Plan, and the 
procedures and district standards in Article 7.  Each district may further be 
limited with respect to uses by L (limited), R (restricted), and O (open) based 
on a specific Regulating Plan.
5.1.3   O fficial Zoning Map
The boundaries of the zoning districts in the City are established 
as shown on a map entitled City of Cheyenne zoning map. The 
City of Cheyenne zoning map is on file and maintained at the 
office of the City Engineer. The City of Cheyenne zoning map 
will bear the signature of the City Engineer, and will be updated 
in accordance with such zoning ordinance amendments as may 
be enacted from time to time by the governing body. The City 
of Cheyenne zoning map, as amended, together with the most 
recently adopted edition of the FEMA flood insurance rate map, 
including the designation of zoning districts are incorporated 
in this code. Copies of the map are on file at the office of the 
City Clerk and development office. Any conflict among the 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the most recent update on 
file at the office of the City Engineer.  Any conflicts between the 
FEMA flood insurance rate maps and the City or County zoning 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the FEMA flood insurance rate 
maps.
5.1.4  
 D
istricts and Uses 
Uses have been grouped in general categories, wherever 
possible. The categories are meant to allow discretion in 
determining permitted uses. Some uses are more specifically 
listed because of anticipated impacts associated with the use 
which warrant special treatment with respect to which district 
they are allowed in or special review procedures and standards 
that make the use compatible with certain districts. These 
cannot be included in the general categories and they require 
the approval process as indicated. Applicants and staff will 
Exihibit B page 1 of 4
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 4
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
P = Use permitted by right A = use per mitted after administrative review  C = U se permitted after conditional discretionary review  
(blank = pr
ohibited use)
tAble 5-1:  ZoninG distriCt Uses
ZoninG distriCts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  CAteGory of Uses / speCifiC Uses
Residential Uses
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Detached Dwelling P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”) P P P P P P P P P P
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse”) P P P P P P P P
Cottage Lots C C C C P P P P P P
Group Housing C C C C C C C C C C C C C C P
Dormitories C A P P P P
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”) C P
P/C P C
P/C P P P
Live/Work C P C A P P P P P P C P
Mixed-use Dwelling P P P P P P C P
Accessory Dwelling A A A A A A A A A A A A P
Urban Loft Building C P C C C P P
Manufactured housing parks C C C C P
Civic Uses
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy) C C C C C C A A A A A P C C A A A C P
Community Assembly (350  - 1000  maximum occupancy) A A P C C A A A C P
Cemeteries A A A P C C A A A P
Primary and secondary schools C C C C C C C C C A A P P A A A C P
Educational facilities P P P A A C P
Community Athletic Field C C C C C C A A P A A A P P
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium C C C C C P P
Service Uses
Service Business - Limited P P P A P P P P
Service Business - General C P P C C P P
Assisted Living / Nursing Home C C C C C A C C C C C P P P P P
Animal Care - Kennel P C P P P P
Animal Care – Hospital / Clinic C C C P C C P
Family Child Care Home (FCCH) P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Family Child Care Center (FCCC) A A A A A A A A A P P P A P P P
Child Care Center (CCC) A C A C C C C C C P P P C P P P P
Emergency Shelter P C
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C P P P A C P P P P                               
Exihibit B page 2 of 4
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 5
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
tAble 5-1:  ZoninG distriCt Uses
ZoninG distriCts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  CAteGory of Uses / speCifiC Uses
Services Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C C C C C A C C A C C C P P
Entertainment, Venue (1000+ maximum occupancy) C C C A A C A C C P P
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation—Other C C C C P C C C C C C P
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast P A A C C C C A P P P P P
Lodging, Hotel / Motel P P P P P P
Medical Care, Clinic and Office P P P C P P P P
Medical Care, Hospital P P P P
Mini Storage C C P C P P C C P
Storage, Yard C P C P
Employment Uses P
Home occupations P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Office – Limited (<3,500) C A C A P P P P P P P P P P
Office – general (3,500 – 20K) C C P P P P A P P P P
Office – Major Office Complex (>20K) P P P P P P P P
Commercial Uses
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k) P P P P A P P P P
Neighborhood Retail (2K - 5K) P P P P A P P P P
General Retail (5K -  25K) P P P P A P P
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K) P P P P C P P
Warehouse Retail (> 100K) P P P P P P
Grocery Store <45K P P P P P P P P
Supermarket  > 45K P P P P C P P
Outdoor Sales, Limited A P A A A A C P
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales C C C C C P
Bars and liquor stores C C P A C C P P
Automobile Service Repair C P C P P C C P P
Automobile Service Station - Limited C P C P P C C P P P
Automobile Service Station - General P C P P C P P
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale C C P P P
Exihibit B page 3 of 4
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 6
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
tAble 5-1:  ZoninG distriCt Uses
ZoninG distriCts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  CAteGory of Uses / speCifiC Uses
Commercial Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Food Service – Limited (under 2K) P P P P P P P P P
Food Service – General (2K – 4K) C P P P P P P P
Food Service – Large-scale (over 4k) P P P P P P
Industrial Uses
Data Center C C C P P C P P
Limited Industrial A A P P P P A P P P P
Moderate Industrial C P P C P P P
General Industrial C P P C
Industrial C C C
Limited Outdoor Storage P P C A P C
Outdoor Storage C P C C
Impoundment Yards P P C C C
Salvage yards C C C
Junk yards C C
Air cargo terminals P C
Aircraft sales, repair, service, storage and relating uses P C
Railroad yards and maintenance buildings P P P C
Public Service Uses
Commercial and Public Parking Facility P P P P P P
Government Facility P P P P P P P P P P P P
Military P P
Recycling Services C P P C C C P
Transportation facilities C P P P P P P
Utility Stations A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A P A P
Agriculture Uses
General Agriculture P P P
Limited Agriculture P P P P
Agricultural equipment or product sales C P
Commercial stables, arenas, and show barns C C P
Nurseries, landscaping P P C P P C P
Work Camps C P
Exihibit B page 4 of 4