 
Page 1 of 8 
City Contract No. ____________ 
 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
for 
Cheyenne Depot Museum: Various Projects 2025 
 
This Professional Services Agreement (“Agreement”) is  made and entered into by and 
between the City of Cheyenne, located at 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 
(“City”), and  TDSi - The Design Studio, inc. , located at 1610 Pioneer Avenue, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming 82001 (“Consultant”). This Agreement shall become effective upon the date of the last 
signature affixed hereto. 
 
RECITALS 
 
In consideration of the mutual covenants and obligations herein expressed, it is agreed by 
and between the parties as follows: 
 
1. SCOPE OF WORK 
The Consultant agrees to provide services as described by, and in accordance with , the 
Scope of Work attached hereto as Exhibit A, incorporated by reference and expressly made 
a part hereof. 
 
2. TIME OF PERFORMANCE 
The work included in this Scope of Work will be completed in three (3) phases . The 
Consultant shall perform its services as expeditiously as is consistent with such 
professional skill and care and the orderly progress of the Project. Anticipated schedule is 
as follows: Design Phase – Completed on or before August 1, 2025; Bidding/Negotiation 
Phase – Completed on or before  October 1 , 2025; Construction Phase  – Completed 
between October 1, 2025, and March 20, 2026. 
 
3. COMPENSATION 
In consideration of the services to be performed pursuant to this Agreement, the Consultant 
will bill the City and the City agrees to pay Consultant a not to exceed amount of  one 
hundred sixty-seven thousand five hundred thirty -nine dollars ($167,539.00) as stated in 
Exhibit A. 
 
4. CONSULTANT RESPONSIBILITY 
In providing services under this Agreement, the Consultant shall perform in a manner 
consistent with that degree of care and skill ordinarily exercised by members of the same 
profession currently practicing under similar circumstances. Upon notice to the Consultant, 
the Consultant will, without additional compensation, correct those services not meeting 
such a standard. 
 
 
Page 2 of 8 
5. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS 
The Parties agree that they will perform their obligations as provided in this Agreement in 
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances. 
 
6. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE 
In compliance with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of November 1988, the City of Cheyenne 
has established an Alcohol and Controlled Substance Policy that pertains to alcohol and 
drug usage by City Employees. All architects, engineers , and other consultants under 
contract with City of Cheyenne, and their employees and sub -consultants, are required to 
comply with the provisions of the City’s Alcohol and Controlled Substance Policy for drug 
and/or alcohol usage on City property or other s ites occupied by the Consu ltant while 
performing the duties and responsibilities of the Agreement. It is the responsibility of the 
Consultant to familiarize themselves with the requirements of this policy and to inform all 
their employees and sub -consultants of the requirements and  ensure their compliance. If 
the Consultant, their employees or sub-consultants are found in violation of this policy, the 
Agreement may be terminated. 
 
7. INDEMNIFICATION/HOLD HARMLESS 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Consultant shall indemnify the City of Cheyenne , 
its officers, directors, partners, employees, and representatives, from and against losses, 
damages, and judgments arising from claims by third parties, including reasonable 
attorneys’ fees and expenses recoverable under applicable law, but only to the extent they 
are found to be caused by a negligent act, error, or omission of Consultant or Consultant’s 
officers, directors, members, partners, agents, employees, or subconsultants in the 
performance of services under this Agreement. 
 
8. INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
The Consultant must provide proof of the following insurance coverages: 
 
 Commercial General Liability Insurance 
For claims arising out of bodily injury, illness, or death, or from damage to or destruction 
of property of others, including loss or use thereof, with minimum limits of $1,000,000 per 
occurrence, $2,000,000 aggregate for the entire term of the Agreement. 
 
 Workers’ Compensation 
Workers’ compensation coverage shall be in effect for the entire term of the Agreement, 
as required by Wyoming law, for all employees or agents providing services under this 
Agreement. Consultant shall provide the City with proof of workers’ compensation o r 
employer’s liability insurance coverage. 
 
 Professional Liability Insurance 
The Consultant shall provide proof of professional liability insurance or errors and 
omissions liability insurance in an amount not less than $500,000 to protect the City from 
any and all claims arising from the Consultant’s negligence in the performance o f duties 
 
Page 3 of 8 
under this Agreement. The City prefers that this liability insurance coverage be provided 
pursuant to an “occurrence” policy. 
 
 If this coverage is provided pursuant to a “claims made” policy: 
  a. Consultant shall, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, 
provide the City with a certificate of insurance demonstrating that such 
coverage is or shall be in effect at the time the Consultant begins the 
provision of services under this Agreement; and 
  b. In the event the Consultant’s services extend into a future policy period, the 
Consultant shall, prior to the policy expiration date, provide the City with a 
new certificate of insurance demonstrating that such coverage is or shall be 
in effect during  all periods of time that Consultant will provide services 
under this Agreement; and 
  c. Consultant shall maintain said “claims made” coverage for a period of five 
(5) years following the last date that Consultant has provided services under 
this Agreement; and 
  d. In the event the Consultant or the insurer terminates “claims made” 
coverage prior to the expiration of the periods provided in subparagraphs a., 
b., or c. of this paragraph, the Consultant shall provide to the City advance 
written notification of the termination of said coverage and shall provide the 
City with an endorsement for an extended reporting period (“tail coverage”) 
which shall be in effect for a period of time not less than five (5) years 
following the last date that Consultant has provided services under this 
Agreement.  
 
 Additional Insurance Information 
 
The Consultant shall name the City of Cheyenne as an Additional Insured  by 
endorsement on its insurance policies and shall provide the City with a copy of the 
endorsements. This requirement does not apply to workers’ compensation and professional 
liability insurance policies. 
 
Consultant shall provide the City with certificates of insurance acknowledging the above -
stated coverages prior to beginning any work under this Agreement. 
 
It is understood and agreed that these policies are primary and not contributory. All policies 
required under this Agreement shall be in effect for the duration of the Agreement. It shall 
be an affirmative obligation upon Consultant to immediately notify in writing the city risk 
manager, city clerk, and city attorney of any fact, circumstance, or occurrence that has 
resulted in or may result in the cancellation of, or substantive change to any insurance 
coverage required by this Agreement, and failure to do so shall be construed to be a breach 
of this Agreement. 
 
 
Page 4 of 8 
If requested by the City, the Consultant shall provide the City with copies of insurance 
policies and/or policy endorsements listing the City of Cheyenne as an additional insured. 
The City’s failure to request or review such policies, endorsements, or certificates shall not 
affect the City’s rights or Consultant’s obligation hereunder. 
 
Any insurance company providing coverage under this Agreement shall have a minimum 
A. M. Best rating of A- (excellent). 
 
9. MINORITY AND DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES (49 C.F.R. Part 26) 
All parties to this Agreement assure that no person will be excluded from participation in, 
denied the benefits of, or otherwise discriminated against, in connection with the award 
and performance of this Agreement on the grounds of age, race, color, disab ility, national 
origin, or sex. 
 
10. MONTHLY REPORT 
With every monthly billing, Consultant shall provide the City Representative with a written 
statement of the status of the work with respect to the Scope of Work, time sheets, and 
work schedule. Failure to provide the required monthly report will delay processing of any 
payment request until the report is submitted. 
 
11. INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT 
The Consultant shall function as an independent consultant for the purposes of this 
Agreement. The Consultant shall assume sole responsibility for any debts or liabilities that 
may be incurred by the Consultant in fulfilling the terms of this Agreement. Nothing in this 
Agreement shall be interpreted as authorizing the Consultant or its agents or employees to 
act as an agent or representative of or on behalf of the City or to incur any obligation of 
any kind on the behalf of the City. 
 
12. TAXES 
The Consultant agrees to pay all valid taxes, excises, license fees, permit fees, bills, debts, 
and obligations incurred by and in connection with its operations under this Agreement. 
 
13. DEFAULT 
Each and every term and condition in this Agreement shall be deemed to be a material 
element of the Agreement. In the event either party should fail or refuse to perform 
according to the terms of this Agreement, such party may be declared in default. 
 
14. REMEDIES 
In the event a party has been declared in default, such defaulting party shall be allowed a 
period of fifteen (15) days within which to cure the default. In the event the default remains 
uncorrected, the non-defaulting party declaring default may elect to: 
  a. Terminate the Agreement and seek damages, which damages shall not 
exceed the contract amount; or 
  b. Treat the Agreement as continuing and require specific performance. 
 
Page 5 of 8 
 
15. TERM AND TERMINATION 
The term of this Agreement shall be from date of execution to March 20, 2026. The parties 
may by mutual written agreement renew or extend this Agreement. 
The City may, without cause, and upon thirty days’ written notice to the Consultant, 
terminate this Agreement in whole or in part at any time, for the City’s convenience. Upon 
receipt of such notice, the Consultant shall: 
  a. Discontinue all services affected; and 
  b. Deliver to the City within five (5) days all data, drawings, specifications, 
reports, estimates, summaries, and such other information and materials as 
may have been accumulated by the Consultant in performing this 
Agreement, whether completed or in process. 
  c. In the event of termination for convenience, the City will pay the Consultant 
for accepted work done and expenses incurred to the date of termination. 
Such acceptance shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
 
16. ADDITIONAL REMEDIES 
In the event the Consultant fails to strictly perform in accordance with this Agreement, the 
City may elect to correct the deficiencies and charge the Consultant. In the event of default 
of any of the conditions by either party which shall require the part y not in default to 
commence legal or equitable action against the defaulting party each party shall bear its 
own costs and expenses, including without limitation, attorney’s fees.  
 
17. GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND VENUE 
The construction, interpretation, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by 
the laws of the State of Wyoming. The courts of the State of Wyoming shall have 
jurisdiction over any action arising out of this Agreement and over the parties, and the 
venue shall be the First Judicial District, Laramie County, Wyoming. 
 
18. GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY 
The City of Cheyenne, along with its officials and employees, does not waive its 
governmental immunity by entering into this Agreement, except to the extent necessary for 
the parties to pursue a contract action to clarify or enforce the written terms of th e 
Agreement. Furthermore, the City specifically retains all immunities and defenses 
available to it as a sovereign or governmental entity pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 1 -39-101, et 
seq., and all other relevant state and federal law. Designations of venue, choic e of law, 
enforcement actions, and similar provisions should not be constructed as a waiver of 
governmental immunity. The parties agree that any ambiguity in this Agreement shall not 
be strictly construed, either against or for either party, except that an y ambiguity as to 
governmental or sovereign immunity shall be construed in favor of governmental 
immunity. 
 
 
Page 6 of 8 
19. MONITORING ACTIVITIES 
The City shall have the right to monitor all activities related to this Agreement that are 
performed by the Consultant or its sub -consultants. This shall include, but not be limited 
to, the right to make site inspections at any time and with reasonable notice; to bring experts 
and consultants on site to examine or evaluate completed work or work  in progress; to 
examine the books, ledgers, documents, papers, and records pertinent to this Agreement; 
and to observe personnel in every phase of performance of the related work. 
 
20. OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS AND WORK PRODUCT 
All deliverables by the Consultant, all work product of the Consultant, all notes, 
calculations, memoranda, or any other documentation generated by the Consultant 
pursuant to the scope of this Agreement, shall be the property of the City of Cheyenne and 
shall be provided to the City of Cheyenne immediately upon request. 
 
21. NON-DISCRIMINATION 
The Consultant shall comply with the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Wyoming Fair 
Employment Practices Act (Wyo. Stat. § 27 -9-105, et seq .), the Americans With 
Disabilities Act (ADA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 12101, et seq ., and the Age 
Discrimination Act of 1975 and any properly promulgated rules and regulations thereto, 
and shall not discriminate against any individual on the grounds of age, sex, creed, color, 
race, religion, national origin, ancestry, pregnancy or qualif ying disability in connection 
with the performance under this Agreement. 
 
22. FORCE MAJEURE. 
The performance of the Agreement by either party shall be subject to force majeure 
including, but not limited to, acts of God, fire, flood, natural disaster, war or threat of war, 
acts or threats of terrorism, civil disorder, unauthorized strikes, governmental regulation or 
advisory, recognized health threats as determined by the World Health Organization, the 
Centers for Disease Control, or local government authority or health agencies (including, 
but not limited to, the health threats of COVID -19, H1N1, or similar infectious diseases), 
curtailment of transportation facilities, or other similar occurrence beyond the control of 
the parties, where any of those factors, circumstances, situations, or conditions or similar 
ones prevent, dissuade, or unreasonably delay the performance required by this Agreement. 
The Agreement may be cancelled by either party, without liability, damages, fees, or 
penalty, and any unused deposits or amounts paid shall be refunded, for any one or more 
of the above reasons, by written notice to the other party. 
 
23. PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION 
The Consultant shall endorse, as required by law, plans and reports prepared under this 
Agreement, and shall affix thereto his or her seal of professional registration, showing that 
he or she is licensed to practice in the State of Wyoming, if necessary. 
 
 
Page 7 of 8 
24.  OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES 
The Owner shall provide full information about the objectives, schedule, constraints, and 
existing conditions of the Project, and shall establish a budget that includes reasonable 
contingencies and meets the Project requirements. The Owner shall provide decisions and 
furnish required information as expeditiously as necessary for the orderly progress of the 
Project. The Architect shall be entitled to rely on the accuracy and completeness of the 
Owner’s information. The Owner shall furnish consulting services not provided by  the 
Architect, but required for the Project, such as environmental  and construction materials  
testing services. The Owner shall employ a Contractor, experienced in the type of Project 
to be constructed, to perform the construction Work and to provide price information. 
 
Based upon the written approval by the owner of the applicable design phase, the Architect 
shall be authorized to proceed to the subsequent design phase. This written authorization 
shall include all specific requests and requirements as set forth by the owner in an effort to 
incorporate any and all changes as early as possible within the project scope. It is 
imperative that the owner makes a timely review at each phase of the project. Should 
additional design and/or rework be required due to project direction or project scope change 
as requested or required by the owner, the architect may request approval of additional 
services prior to proceeding. Until written approval is received from the owner, the 
architect will stop work, which may result in delay. Such a delay shall not be the burden of 
the Architect accordingly. 
 
25. ENTIRETY OF AGREEMENT 
This Agreement consisting of eight (8) pages, and Exhibit A consisting of twelve (12) 
pages, contain the entire understanding of the parties. There are no other terms or 
conditions, written or oral, concerning or controlling this matter.  
 
 
Page 8 of 8 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties to this Agreement, through their duly authorized 
representatives, have executed this Agreement on the days and dates set out below and certify that 
they have read, understood, and knowingly and voluntarily agreed to the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement. This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be 
deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
 
      City of Cheyenne 
 
 
      By: ______________________________________ 
(SEAL)      Patrick Collins, Mayor 
 
Attest: 
 
________________________________ Date: _____________________________________ 
Kylie Soden, City Clerk 
 
 
      TDSi - The Design Studio, inc. 
 
      By: ______________________________________ 
 
      Print Name: _______________________________ 
 
      Date: _____________________________________ 
1610 Pioneer Avenue Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970    www.tdsi.us
2BU 
Proposal for Professional Design Services for 
Cheyenne Depot Museum: 
Various Projects 2025 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
November 27, 2024 
C
ity of Cheyenne 
Community Recreation and Events Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 
ATTN:   Jason Sanchez – Director, Community Recreation & Eve nts 
R
E: Proposal for Professional Architecture and Engineeri ng Services for 
CHEYENNE DEPOT MUSEUM: VARIOUS PROJECTS - 2025 
J
ason: 
Thank you again for allowing our firm to provide this proposal for Professional Services for the various projects at the 
Historic Cheyenne Depot and Depot Plaza. We would be honored to have the chance to work with you once again. If, 
as you review our proposal, you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me. We would be glad to meet 
to further discuss our approach to the project. 
Thank you again, 
Will Byers, TDSi Associate, Associate AIA 
Will@tdsi.us 
Exhibit A
Cheyenne Depot Museum: Various Projects – 2025 
           2024.11.27 
 Page 2 of 12 
 
TDSi    1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T )  307.775.9970  www.tdsi .us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
 
  
 Cheyenne Depot Museum: Various Projects - 2025 
2024.11.27 
Page 3 of 12 
 
TDSi    1610 Pioneer Avenue                                C heyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us  
Design Scopes: 
1. Scope: Depot 2nd  and 3 rd  floor interior finishes update/remodel.  
a. Reconfiguration/remodel of Chamber of Commerce Offices on 2 nd  Floor: 
1. Removal of existing interior partial height partitions to create open office concept. 
Relocate existing electrical receptacles/data to perimeter wall locations where 
possible and/or new floor box locations. Assumes no new circuits.  
2. Updated entrance/reception and CEO Office configuration with glass 
partitions/walls as determined during design. Reconfiguration of ceiling as required.  
3. Rebalance/Relocate existing HVAC diffusers to accommodate new layout. Existing 
HVAC infrastructure including fan coil units to remain.  
b. Reconfiguration of 2 nd  floor work/break room to create new separate office area from break room. 
1. Break room casework to remain, with new sink and faucet. New flooring/paint. 
2. Casework on West side of room to be removed for new office area.  
3. Updated light fixtures in acoustical grid ceiling in areas of work (one for one 
replacement with LED fixtures).  
4. Reconfigure HVAC into two separate zones for each ‘new’ room. Existing fan coil 
units to remain.  
c. Review of existing HVAC in 2nd  floor board room including controls to determine feasibility of 
increased cooling capability via controls adjustments.  
d. New flooring selections - Carpet or LVP as determined during design. 
e. New paint selections in areas of remodel and/or as determined during design. 
1. Note: Existing wood trim/wainscot to remain throughout 2 nd /3 rd  Floor areas.  
2. Note: Existing ceiling configurations to remain, unless noted otherwise.  
f. Anticipated Professional Services Scope: Architectural, Mechanical, Electrical.  
i. Note assumes no structural modifications in any area. 
g. Estimated probable construction cost: $400,000 
 
2. Scope: Update access hatch and ladder to clock tower area (accessed via Chamber of Commerce offices).  
a. Access hatch shall have gas assist opening, and ladder shall be aluminum with applicable fall 
protection as required by building code and OSHA.  
b. Anticipated Professional Services Scope: Architectural, Electrical (if required). 
c. Estimated probable construction cost: $50,000 
 
3. Scope: Determination of exterior windows requiring repair/repaint/reseal throughout entire building. Includes 
identification of deteriorated trim, and photo elevations and applicable notes of windows requiring repair. 
Includes Drone flight of building to determine areas requiring repair. Scope is for exterior only. 
a. Anticipated Professional Services Scope: Architectural. 
b. Estimated probable construction cost: $300,000 
 
4. Scope: Determination of areas requiring masonry repointing at the exterior of the building. Includes 
photographic elevations and applicable notes of locations requiring repointing. Photographs and video will 
be provided via Drone flight of building.  
a. Anticipated Professional Services Scope: Architectural. 
b. Estimated probable construction cost: $50,000 
 
5. Scope: Depot plaza concrete removal and replacement with brick pavers.  
a. New brick pavers are anticipated to be a maximum of 60% of the existing Depot Plaza area, with the 
remainder being concrete.  
Cheyenne Depot Museum: Various Projects – 2025 
           2024.11.27 
 Page 4 of 12 
 
TDSi    1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T )  307.775.9970  www.tdsi .us 
i. Survey of existing depot plaza at each concrete control joint location to determine if existing 
plaza is ADA compliant, and make necessary adjustments if necessary to bring plaza into 
ADA compliance where required.  
b. Scope also includes custom designed shade structure (Structural steel with metal roofing panels) 
adjacent to Splash Pad at elevated patio section. It is anticipated to include lighting/receptacles at 
shade structure (if feasible).  
c. Includes geotechnical subsurface exploration and report will be included to determine soil bearing 
capacity.  
i. Existing private utilities will need to be located by City/Others prior to geotechnical 
exploration.  
d. Anticipated Professional Services Scope: Architectural, Civil, Structural, Electrical.  
e. Estimated probable construction cost: $750,000 
 
Total ESTIMATED Construction cost for items 1-5: $1 ,550,000 
 
It is recognized that neither the Architect nor the Owner has control over the cost of labor, materials or 
equipment, over the Contractor's or Subcontractor's methods of determining bid prices, or over competitive 
bidding, market or negotiating conditions. Accordingly, the Architect cannot and does not warrant or 
represent that bids or negotiated prices will not vary from any Estimates of Probable Construction or 
Renovation Cost or any evaluation prepared by the A rchitect. 
 
 
Anticipated Schedule :  
i. Design: January 2025 – May 2025 
ii. Bidding: Summer 2025 
iii. Construction: Fall 2025 - Spring 2026 
 
 
 
SCOPE MATRIX: 
DESIGN PHASE SERVICES 
(35% SD, 65% DD and 100% CD Documents) 
Architect 
Civil 
Engineer 
Structural 
Engineer 
Mechanical 
Engineer 
Electrical 
Engineer 
Develop a design solution based upon the 
approved project requirements Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Meetings with Owner to review the design 
solution options 
  
Phase: 35% Location: Cheyenne Yes No No No No 
Phase: 65% Location: Cheyenne Yes Yes No No No 
Phase: 100% Location: Cheyenne Yes No No No No 
Synthesize the aspects of the design solution 
options preferred by the Owner to develop a 
final solution 
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 Cheyenne Depot Museum: Various Projects - 2025 
2024.11.27 
Page 5 of 12 
 
TDSi    1610 Pioneer Avenue                                C heyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon the Owner’s approval of the design 
solution, prepare Construction Documents 
indicating requirements for construction of the 
project, anticipated to include: 
  
  
 Drawings  Yes  Yes  Yes  Yes  Yes  
 Technical specifications for materials, 
systems, etc. Yes Review Yes Yes Yes 
 Written Bidding Requirements  No  No  No  No  No  
Total Meetings with Owner (Maximum) 5 1 0 0 0 
Total Site Visits  (Maximum) 5 2 1 1 1 
BIDDING/NEGOTIATION PHASE SERVICES 
Architect 
Civil 
Engineer 
 
Structural 
Engineer 
Mechanical 
Engineer 
Electrical 
Engineer 
Assist the Owner in obtaining proposals and 
award of the Contract for Construction Yes NA NA NA NA 
Distribution 
of Bid 
Documents 
will be via: 
CDQuest.com ? NA NA NA NA NA NA 
Architect? NA NA NA NA NA NA 
Owner? Yes NA NA NA NA NA 
Coordination of bidding, including:   
 Answering Bidders questions  Yes  Yes  Yes  Yes  Yes  
 
Processing Bidder’s Request for 
Interpretation of Documents and 
Requests for Product Substitutions 
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 Preparation of Addenda, if required  Yes  Assist Assist Assist Assist 
Attend  
Pre-Bid 
Meeting 
Location: Cheyenne Yes No No No No 
Prepare Bid Tabulation Form?  NA  NA  NA  NA  NA  
Attend Bid 
Opening Location: Cheyenne Yes NA NA NA NA 
Evaluation of bids and recommendation to 
Owner regarding award of bid Yes Assist Assist Assist Assist 
Prepare Notice of Intent to Award Contract?  Assist NA  NA  NA  NA  
Prepare Owner/Contractor Agreement?  Yes  NA  NA  NA  NA  
Review Contractor's Post Bid Submittals?  Assist NA  NA  NA  NA  
Meetings with Owner (Bid Review) 1 0 0 0 0 
Site Visits  0 0 0 0 0 
Cheyenne Depot Museum: Various Projects – 2025 
           2024.11.27 
 Page 6 of 12 
 
TDSi    1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T )  307.775.9970  www.tdsi .us 
 
CONSTRUCTION ADMINISTRATION (CA) 
PHASE 
Architect 
Civil 
Engineer 
 
Structural 
Engineer 
Mechanical 
Engineer 
Electrical 
Engineer 
Maximum Length of Construction: 20 weeks  
Attend Pre -
Construction 
Conference 
Location: Cheyenne 1 1 
 
0 
 
0 0 
Owner/Architect
/Contractor 
(OAC) Meetings 
Frequency: Every 2 
Weeks 
Yes, 
with 
Periodic 
Site 
Visits 
No No No No 
Periodic site visits over the construction phase 
(generally with OAC) 
10  max 
over 20 
weeks 
4 max 
 
1 max 
 
1 max 2 max 
Preparation of Field Report with photographs 
or other documentation as appropriate for 
each site visit 
Yes Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes Yes 
Review of contractor’s submittals  Yes  Yes  Yes  Yes  Yes  
Respond to Requests for Information (RFI’s) 
from the contractor (Reasonable Amount) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Substantial Completion Inspections  1 max  1 max  1 max  1 max  1 max  
Preparation of Punch List 1 max  1 max  1 max  1 max  1 max  
Final Completion Inspections  1 max  1 max  0 0 0 
Additional Meetings with Owner 1 0 0 0 0 
POST CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
Architect 
Civil 
Engineer 
 
Structural 
Engineer 
Mechanical 
Engineer 
Electrical 
Engineer 
Integration of Contractor Provided Record 
Drawing Information into CAD Drawings No No No No No 
Warranty Inspections  
11 th  Month Inspections  1 0 0 0 0 
Meetings with Owner (if required) 1 0 0 0 0 
 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
The general description of the Scope of Services for this project is as follows: 
 
• Architectural services for: 
• Site: 
 Cheyenne Depot Museum and Depot Plaza 
• Total Area: Existing building area to remain. 
• Height of Buildings: Existing structure to remain.  
• Number of buildings: Existing to remain. 
 Cheyenne Depot Museum: Various Projects - 2025 
2024.11.27 
Page 7 of 12 
 
TDSi    1610 Pioneer Avenue                                C heyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us  
• Planning and Zoning Approvals: 
 Site Plan Review: Not included or anticipated. 
 Engineering Plan Review: Not included or anticipated. 
• Surveying: 
 Included for Exterior Improvements on Depot Plaza only. 
• Civil Design: 
 Included for Exterior Improvements on Depot Plaza only.  
o Does not include any drainage or storm water scope.   
• Drainage Study: 
 Not Included or anticipated. 
• Traffic Study: 
 Not Applicable. 
• Structural System: 
 Existing building structure to remain.  
 New free standing shade structure on Depot Plaza. 
• HVAC: 
 Existing HVAC system to remain. 
• Plumbing: 
 Plumbing layout is anticipated to remain in 2 nd  floor break room. Review of fixture heights, 
and ADA requirements will be evaluated as part of the project. If fixture’s locations are 
required to change, design will accommodate.  
• Fire Sprinkler System: 
 Existing Fire Suppression to remain. No changes are anticipated.  
• Electrical: 
 Electrical scope is as noted in phased descriptions. 
• Acoustical Design/ Mechanical Noise & Vibration Control: 
o Not Included. 
 
• Project Delivery: Design-Bid-Build. 
• Depending on final schedule and coordination with the Depot, the project is anticipated be released 
as a single bid package, for award to one General Contractor, and bidding and construction shall 
immediately follow completion of construction documents. 
• Total length of construction phase services total is a maximum of 20 weeks from selected 
Contractor’s Notice To Proceed date.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cheyenne Depot Museum: Various Projects – 2025 
           2024.11.27 
 Page 8 of 12 
 
TDSi    1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T )  307.775.9970  www.tdsi .us 
CONSULTANTS 
 
• The services of following outside consultants, as defined in the Scope of Services noted above, are 
included in this proposal and the fees noted herein: 
 
CIVIL ENGINEER 
 
 
Darci Hendon, PE, Principal 
Theena Engineering 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
 
STRUCTURAL 
ENGINEER  
Jera Likely, PE, Senior Engineer 
Martin / Martin Wyoming 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
MECHANICAL 
ENGINEER  
 
Justin Montgomery, PE, Principal 
DesignPoint Engineering 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
ELECTRICAL 
ENGINEER  
 
Mike Gust, PE, Principal 
Gust Engineering 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
GEOTECHNICAL 
CONSULTANT 
  
Taylor Olson, PE,  
Inberg-Miller Engineers 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
 
 
If during the course of the project, the services of additional outside consultants are deemed necessary, are 
requested by the Owner, or are required by the authorities having jurisdiction over the Project, such services 
will be considered a Reimbursable Expense.  We will coordinate with the Owner to add consultants to our 
team that are mutually agreeable to both the Owner and our firm. 
 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES FEES 
• For this project we propose to provide the Architectural and Engineering services described herein, based 
upon the noted scope included with each phase. 
 
ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES FEES: 
• 35% Documents Phase (Schematic Design (SD) Phase) .............................. $38,431  
• 65% Documents Phase (Design Development (DD) Phase) ......................... $43,443  
• 100% Documents Phase (Construction Documents (CD) Phase) ................. $62,658  
• Bidding/Negotiation (BN) Phase ................................................................... $4,177   
• Construction Administration (CA) Phase .................................................... $18,830  
• Post Construction (PC) Phase ............................................................................ $0 
• TOTAL ................................................................................................ $167,539 
 
Plus Reimbursable Expenses 
 

 Cheyenne Depot Museum: Various Projects - 2025 
2024.11.27 
Page 9 of 12 
 
TDSi    1610 Pioneer Avenue                                C heyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us  
TDSi RATE SCHEDULE  
• TDSi Hourly Rates are as follows for 2025: 
 
 Staff Member Rate Per Hour 
o Randy Byers, AIA, LEED AP BD+C  – TDSi Principal, Architect.......................................... $ 215 
o Clint Taylor, AIA, PE, LEED AP BD+C  - TDSi Associate, Architect .................................... $ 165 
o Will Byers, AIA Associate - TDSi Associate, Project Manager/Intern Architect ............. $ 140 
o Stephanie Lowe, Project Manager, Historic Preservation Specialist ........................... $ 130 
 
o Legal testimony will be invoiced at 2 times the above noted hourly rate; 
Research and consultation as an Expert Witness, and time giving 
depositions will be billed at 1.5 times the above noted hourly rate. 
 
ADDITIONAL SERVICES 
 
• Additional Services will be invoiced at the Hourly Rates current at the time the services are 
provided. 
 
• Additional Services will be invoiced at the Hourly Rates current at the time the services are 
provided. If the professional services covered by this proposal have not been completed within 
the stated duration noted, through no fault of the Architect, additional services shall apply. 
Architect shall give written notice to the owner if additional services are anticipated, prior to 
additional services occurring.   
 
 
CONSULTANT SERVICES 
 
• Consultant fees not included within basic scope of services, and reimbursable expenses will be 
billed at cost plus 10% markup. 
 
 
REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES 
 
• Expenses incurred in connection with the project will be billed at actual cost plus a 10% markup. 
• Examples of such expenses are: 
o out of town travel and subsistence expenses; 
o reproduction costs for documents for other than the Architect’s use or record; 
o postage and shipping charges. 
 
Hourly Rates and Reimbursable Expenses Rates are subject to review 
and change on a periodic basis, or as circumstances require.  
 
BILLING SCHEDULE 
 
• E-Invoice Format - All invoices will be emailed to the Client, with an option for the Client to pay online. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cheyenne Depot Museum: Various Projects – 2025 
           2024.11.27 
 Page 10 of 12 
 
TDSi    1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T )  307.775.9970  www.tdsi .us 
PRODUCTS OF SERVICE 
 
• In general, the anticipated Products of Service include the following: 
FOR SCOPE OF SERVICES  
• At Completion of 35% Documents Phase (Schematic Design Phase): 
 Drawings 
• At Completion of 65% Documents Phase (Design Development Phase): 
 Drawings 
 Technical Specifications (outline) 
• At Completion of 100% Documents Phase (Construction Documents Phase): 
 Drawings 
 Technical Specifications  
• Construction Administration Phase: 
 Architect’s Field Reports 
• Post Construction (Warranty Period) Phase: 
 Record Drawings 
 11 th  Month Inspection Report 
 
SERVICES NOT INCLUDED 
 
• The Architect's fees do not include the following: 
• Preparation of Planning & Zoning applications, maps, etc. including annexation, Site Plan Review, 
etc. 
• Surveying, except as noted 
• Hazardous materials testing/inspection (Asbestos, Lead, Mold, Etc.) 
• Environmental Investigations (Phase I or Phase II) 
• Geotechnical Investigations, except as noted 
• Acoustical Design 
 Interior Acoustic Design 
 Sound Isolation Design 
 Mechanical Noise & Vibration Control 
• Testing or Abatement Design for Hazardous Materials 
• Consultant other than those specifically listed above 
• Special Consultants 
• Furniture Fixtures & Equipment Design or Documents 
• Preparation of documents for Approvals required by Governmental Agencies, except as noted above. 
• Manual Distribution of Bid Documents 
• Plan Review Fees 
• Building Permit Fees 
• Printing, except as specifically noted herein 
• Construction Testing Fees 
• Specialty Inspections 
• Modifications to the documents or repair detailing that are the result of contractor quality control 
deficiencies 
• Models 
• Post Construction Services, except as noted herein 
• Presentation or Meetings with Government Officials, Financial Institutions, etc. except as noted 
herein 
• Utility water, sewer, or natural gas piping further than 5 feet outside the building including  
landscape irrigation. 
• Ground source heat pump system design including loop field design. 
 Cheyenne Depot Museum: Various Projects - 2025 
2024.11.27 
Page 11 of 12 
 
TDSi    1610 Pioneer Avenue                                C heyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us  
• Fire sprinkler design 
• Energy modeling 
• Life cycle cost analysis of multiple mechanical systems 
• LEED Documentation 
• Detailed Quantity Take-off Construction cost estimates 
• Commissioning of the mechanical systems 
• Ground Vibration Testing and Recommendations  
• Testing and analysis of ground borne environmental vibrations 
• Exterior Sound Isolation Design  
• Detailed Analysis of Environmental Noise (Cadna Model) 
• Security Design 
• Travel outside Cheyenne, Wyoming 
• Professional Liability Coverage beyond limits noted below 
 
The services noted above may be requested by the Owner as Additional Services. 
 
LIMIT OF LIABILITY 
 
• The Owner agrees, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to limit the Architect’s total liability to the Owner, 
and to all the construction contractors and subcontractors on the project, for any and all injuries, claims, 
losses, costs, damages, or claims expenses from any source or causes, so that the total aggregate liability to 
the Architect to all those named shall be limited to the Architect’s net fees, excluding consultants and 
reimbursable expenses. Such causes include, but are not limited to, negligence, error or omissions, strict 
liability, breach of contract or warranty. 
 
INSURANCE 
 
• Professional Liability Insurance: 
• TDSi currently carries a Professional Liability insurance policy provided by CNA through Victor 
Insurance Managers Inc. / Continental Casualty Company. The policy is a “claims-made” policy with 
a maximum limit of liability of $1,000,000 per claim, with an aggregate limit of $2,000,000 per year. 
Our firm has never had a claim against our policy. A Certificate of Insurance will be provided upon 
written request. 
 
• General Business Liability Insurance: 
• TDSi carries a General Business Liability policy provided by AMCO Insurance Company and Allied 
Insurance Company of America. A Certificate of Insurance that enumerates the various coverage 
limits will be provided upon written request. 
 
TDSi HISTORY AND NOTED PROJECT EXPERIENCE: 
 
TDSi is a local Cheyenne architectural ﬁrm, with a 24-year history of professional design services that 
integrate quality architecture, sustainable design, and a high level of client service. Our portfolio includes 
recreational facilities, K-12, higher education, mixed-use developments, large new commercial construction 
projects, renovation projects, master planning and historic restoration work.  
 
A FEW THINGS SET OUR DESIGN TEAM APART: 
LOCATION | we believe it is important for the Design Team to be proximate to the project site to be able to 
respond to the Owner’s and User’s needs throughout the project -  it will be essential that the Architect and 
consultants be accessible and be on-site on a regular basis – from the inception of the design phase through 
the completion of the project and the warranty phase - TDSi and the majority of our consultants are local and 
able to visit the project site easily; 
Cheyenne Depot Museum: Various Projects – 2025 
           2024.11.27 
 Page 12 of 12 
 
TDSi    1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T )  307.775.9970  www.tdsi .us 
 
FAMILIARITY WITH PROJECT | TDSi and our Design Team’s previous experience and involvement with similar 
projects like this project will be a considerable advantage as the project moves forward. 
 
EXPERIENCE  | one of our Design Team’s strengths is our experience - TDSi’s experience, now spanning 24 
years of diverse project types, is supplemented with similar experience from the consultants on our Design 
Team. Our experience includes numerous projects similar to the proposed various projects at the Historic 
Cheyenne Depot; 
 
FAMILIARITY WITH CITY REQUIREMENTS | Our Design Team works  with City of Cheyenne Requirements on 
a regular basis – including City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities Construction Specifications and 
Standard Drawings, current building code requirements etc. Members of our Design Team have been 
involved with building code adoption committees, UDC development committees and Building Code Board 
of Appeals, and the Historic Preservation Board of Cheyenne.  
 
CREATIVITY | TDSi has a proven record of creative and skilled problem solving; providing Owner’s with 
unique solutions founded on creative responses to program needs, project constraints and identiﬁed 
opportunities. As important as our Team’s experience and capabilities are, we know that they are no more 
important than how well we listen to the Owner’s and User’s needs. Only by being attentive listeners can we 
learn and understand your objectives, and help you optimize the opportunities for success. The ﬁnal product 
must ultimately reﬂect and support the Community Recreation and Events Department mission, vision, 
character, and commitment to quality. Our Design Team is committed to being part of that success. Thank 
you for your consideration of our Design Team for this project.  We look forward to the next steps in your 
selection process.  
 
• TDSi noted Historic Architectural Project Experience: 
 Cheyenne Historic Train Depot Renovation (2024) 
 Cheyenne Historic Pumphouse Renovation 
 First Presbyterian Church Renovation and Addition  
 Dinneen Building Addition and Renovation 
 St. Mary’s Cathedral Renovation 
 Nagle Warren Mansion Renovation 
 First United Methodist Church Addition and Renovation 
 Elk Mountain Hotel Renovation 
o Elk Mountain, Wyoming 
 University of Wyoming Historic Preservation Plan 
 
 
TERM OF PROPOSAL 
 
 This proposal will be valid 60 days from issuance. 
 
Submitted By: 
 
 
 
 
 
Will Byers, Associate AIA 
TDSi Associate 
for the firm 
 