MEMORANDUM  
TO:  Mayor Patrick Collins , and City Council 
FROM:  TJ Barttelbort, Purchasing Manager 
DATE:  December 18, 2024   
SUBJECT: Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Zivaro , for Quest 
Netvault Software for the City of Cheyenne IT Department 
______________________________________________ 
Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Zivaro, for Quest Netvault Software 
for the City of Cheyenne IT Department. 
 
The total amount of the purchase is $125,000.00, for a five (5) year software term.   
 
This purchase will replace existing back up software, with a product that offers increased security 
and protection as well as adding the ability to back up and house all  Office 365 Data (Outlook, 
One Drive, etc). 
 
This is a single source purchase, therefore no bids were requested.  In conducting research for this 
purchase, it was determined that the pricing provided from Zivaro was drastically less expensive 
than the pricing offered from other 3rd party resellers. 
 
After conducting pricing research, requesting a quote from a separate 3rd Party Reseller (Dell) 
generated a cost submittal of $220,654.50.  Utilizing Zivaro provides a $95,654.50 price saving.  
Recommendation is to award to Zivaro as a "Single" Source, due to the significant cost savings. 
 
 
Funding:  001-12-1213-40-21604 ( General Fund / Computer Software/Maintenance) 
  $125,000.00 
    
   
 


REQUEST TO PURCHASE OVER $75,000.00 
Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Zivaro, for Quest Netvault 
Software for the City of Cheyenne IT Department .  The total amount of the purchase is 
$125,000.00.  This is a single source purchase, therefore no bids were requested.   
 
This will be reviewed by the City Council Finance Committee on  January 7, 2025 and voted on 
at the January 13, 2024 City Council meeting. 
 
TJ Barttelbort, Purchasing Manager 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming 
(307) 773-1045 
 
Published in:  Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
Dates: December 20 & 27, 2024 

3900 E Mexico Avenue, Suite 1000 
Denver, CO 80210-3945 
www.zivaro.com 
Phone: 970-443-3866 
Account Executive: 
Mitch Harty 
970-443-3866 
mharty@zivaro.com 
Inside Account Manager: 
Keith Lyden 
720-836-7480 
klyden@zivaro.com 
Quotation 
Prepared For: Ship To: Date: 10/31/2024 
B. Tyler Nelson 
City of Cheyenne 
2101 O'neil Ave, 
Room 110 
Cheyenne, WY, 82001 
(307)637-6267 
tnelson@cheyennecity.org 
B. Tyler Nelson 
2101 O'neil Ave 
Room 110 
Cheyenne, WY 82001 
(307)637-6350 
tnelson@cheyennecity.org 
QUOTE#. 165567 
Line# Item Number Item Description Qty. Price Extended 
1 KAC-BAK-TK-247 NETVAULT PLUS BACK END CAPACITY INCL UDING M365 PER TIB 24X7 TERM 
LICENSE/MAINT 
PACK 
Mfr: Netvault 
66 $ 1,824.25 $ 120,400.50 
2 NRQ-BAK-PP NETVAULT PLUS REMOTE QUICKSTART - PREPAI D 
Mfr: Netvault 
1 $ 4,599.50 $ 4,599.50 
2 item(s) Sub-Total $ 125,000.00 
Tax $ 0.00 
Freight $ 0.00 
Total $ 125,000.00 
Date: 10/31/2024 
QUOTE#. 165567 
Quote Valid Until: 11/30/2024 
Payment Details Shipping and Delivery Details 
Pay by: Company PO 
Term:  Net 30 days 
Shipping via: Drop Ship 
(DropShip) 
Terms and Conditions 
Terms with approved credit. Quote does not include possible sales taxes and freight charges. 
Upon acceptance of this Quote all product, software , and OEM support and maintenance purchases are fin al unless cancellation or return is pre-approved by  
Zivaro and OEM, subject to Zivaro’s Cancellation and Return Policy available at https://zivaro.com/cancellation-and-return-policy/. 
Upon acceptance of the quote, unless otherwise negotiated, Zivaro's Master Sales Agreement (MSA) will govern the performance and delivery of these items. The 
most current version of the MSA is available at www.zivaro.com/MSA  and may be updated from time to time without notice. 
Acceptance of this quote includes the acceptance of the following terms: https://www.tdsynnex.com/na/us/terms-conditions/ 
Prepared by: Keith Lyden Phone: 720-836-7480 Email: klyden@zivaro.com 
 
 
Effective 15 June 2023 CONFIDENTIAL Page 1 of 8 
 
  
  
Software Transaction Agreement                                                                                                                                                                                          
 
PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THIS PRODUCT. BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING OR USING THIS 
PRODUCT, YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. FOR ORD ERS PLACED OUTSIDE THE 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, PLEASE GO TO https://quest.com/legal/sta.aspx TO VIEW THE APPLICABLE VERSION OF THIS 
AGREEMENT FOR YOUR COUNTRY OR REGION. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS AN D CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT OR 
THE APPLICABLE VERSION OF THIS AGREEMENT FOR YOUR COUNTRY OR REGION, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL OR USE THIS 
PRODUCT. IF YOU HAVE A SIGNED AGREEMENT WITH PROVIDER THAT IS SPECIFICALLY REFERENCED IN AN ORDER THAT IS 
EXECUTED BETWEEN YOU AND PROVIDER, THEN THAT SIGNED AGREEMENT WILL SUPERSEDE THIS AGREEMENT. 
 
 
This Software Transaction Agreement (the “Agreement”) is made between you, the Customer (“Customer” or “You”) and the Provider, as defined 
below. 
1. Definitions. Capitalized terms not defined in context shall have the meanings assigned to them below:  
(a) “Affiliate” means any legal entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with a party to th is Agreement, for so long as such 
control relationship exists. 
 
(b) “Appliance” means a computer hardware product upon which the Software is pre-installed and delivered.  
 
(c) “Documentation” means the then current user manuals and documentation that Provider makes available for the Software either through 
the electronic download of the Software or from the Support Site, and all copies of the foregoing. 
 
(d) “Effective Date” means the date that Customer accepts the Agreement. 
 
(e) “eStore” means Provider’s online Software ordering system located at https://shop.quest.com/.  
 
(f) “License Type” means the model by which the Software is licensed (e.g., by server, by mailbox, by managed user) as indicated in the 
applicable Order and defined in the Product Guide. 
 
(g) “Maintenance Services” means Provider’s then current maintenance and support offer ing specified in the applicable Order and made 
available to Customer as stated in the Maintenance Services Section below. 
 
(h) An “Order” is defined in Section 2 (Ordering).   
 
(i) “Partner” means a reseller or distributor that is under contract with Provider or another authorized party and is authorized via such contract 
to resell the Products and/or Maintenance Services.  
 
(j) “Product(s)” means the Software and/or Appliance(s) provided to Customer by Provider. 
 
(k) “Product Guide” means the document available at https://quest.com/docs/Product_Guide.pdf that contains the Product Terms.  
 
(l) “Product Terms” means the terms associated with each License Type and any other terms associated with an individual Product. The 
Product Terms for Products in a Signed Order or a Governing Quotation shall be as stated in the Signed Order or Governing Quo tation. If 
no Product Terms are stated in the Signed Order or Governing Quotation, if the Order is placed with a Purchase Order (“PO”) only, if the 
Order is placed through the eStore, or if the Products are purchased from a Partner, then the Product Terms for such Products shall be as 
stated in the Product Guide as of the date of the Order or purchase. 
 
(m) “Provider” means Quest Software Inc., with its principal place of business located at 20 Enterprise, Suite 100, Aliso Viejo, CA 92656. If an 
Order is placed through and approved by an Affiliate of Provider, then that Affiliate shall be the Provider under this Agreement. 
 
(n) “Software” means any and all software that is provided or made available to Customer under this Agreement as well as any new versions 
and releases of such software that are made available  to Customer pursuant to this Agreement, and, where applicable, all copies of the 
foregoing. Software includes On -Premises Software and SaaS Software (as defined in Appendix A Software License Terms), along with 
software that is delivered on an Appliance. 
 
(o) “Support Site ” means Provider’s website defining support, available  at https://support.quest.com/essentials/support-guide, and 
https://support.quest.com.   
 
(p) “Use” means Customer’s installation, deployment, access of or provision of access to, or operation of a Product. 
 
2. Ordering.  Customer may place an order for Products through (i) an ordering document signed by Customer and Provider (“Signed Order”), 
(ii) a Provider quotation referenced on a PO that states that it is governed exclusively by such quotation (“ Governing Quotation”), (iii) an order 
placed through the eStore, (iv) an order placed through a Partner, or (v) a Customer PO submitted to Provider (each of which is referred to herein 
as an “ Order”). Each Order shall be Customer’s irrevocable commitment to purchase and pay for the Products and/or Maintenance Services 
 
 
Effective 15 June 2023 CONFIDENTIAL Page 2 of 8 
 
  
  
stated in the Order and each Order  placed with Provider shall be subject to approval by Pr ovider in writing or by performance . Customer may 
place Orders for professional services and training under Provider’s then current professional services terms.   
3. Software License.  Subject to Customer’s compliance with the terms of this Agreement, Provider grants to Customer, and Customer accepts 
from Provider, a non-exclusive, non-transferable (except as otherwise set forth herein) and non-sublicensable license to Use the quantities of 
each item of Software licensed from Provider or a Partner within the parameters of the Product Terms associated with the applicable Software 
and License Type referenced in the Order and as described in Appendix A (a “License”). Except for MSP Licenses (as defined in Appendix A), 
Customer shall only Use the Software to support the internal business operations of itself and its worldwide Affiliates. 
4. Restrictions.   Customer may not, nor allow any third party to  (a) Use the Software except as licensed hereunder, (b) reverse engineer, 
decompile, or otherwise seek to access the source code of the Software, except to the extent these restrictions are prohibited by applicable law 
and then only upon advance written notice to Provider, ( c) copy, modify, create derivative works of,  or remove proprietary notices from  the 
Products or Documentation, (d) resell, sublicense, distribute or rent the Products or Documentation, (e) use the Software to provide a hosted or 
managed service to third parties, except for MSP Licenses, (f) use the Products or Documentation to create or enhance a competitive offering or 
for any other purpose which is competitive to Provider, or (g) conduct security or vulnerability tests of the Software, interfere with its operation or 
circumvent any access, licensing or copying restrictions. 
 
5. Proprietary Rights. Customer understands and agrees that (i) the Products are protected by copyright and other intellectual property laws 
and treaties, (ii) Provider, its Affiliates and/or its licensors own the copyright, and other intellectual property rights in the Products, (iii) the Software 
is licensed, and not sold, (iv) this Agreement does not grant Customer any rights to use Provider’s trademarks or service marks, and (v) Provider 
reserves any and all rights, implied or otherwise, which are not expressly granted to Customer in this Agreement.   
 
6. Title, Risk of Loss and Delivery.  Provider, its Affiliates and/or its licensors own the title to all Software. Title and risk of loss to an Appliance 
shall pass from Provider to Customer upon shipment (unless the Appliance is rented, leased or loaned to Customer) .  Delivery of or access to 
Products shall be by electronic download, access credentials, or FOB Shipping Point.  
 
7. Payment and Taxes. Customer agrees to pay to Provider (or, if applicable, Partner) the fees specified in each  Order, Customer will be 
invoiced promptly following delivery of, or granting of access to, the Products or prior to the commencement of any renewal Maintenance Period 
or renewed Software term.  Customer shall make all payments due to Provider in full within thirty (30) days from the date of each invoice or such 
other period (if any) stated in a Signed Order.  Provider reserves the right to charge Customer a late penalty of 1.5% per month (or the maximum 
rate permitted by law, whichever is less) for a ny amounts payable to Provider by Customer that are not subject to a good faith dispute and that 
remain unpaid after the due date until such amount is paid. Amounts payable under this Agreement shall be paid in full without set-off or deduction 
by the Customer, and such amounts shall not be subject to any other limitations or exclusions, whether under this Agreement or otherwise arising 
in law. 
 
The fees stated in an Order may not include taxes. If Provider is required to pay sales, use, property, GST, value-added, other taxes based on 
the purchase or use of Products or Maintenance Services provided under this Agreement, then such taxes shall be billed to and paid by Customer. 
This Section does not apply to taxes based on Provider’s income. 
 
8. Term and Termination.  
 
(a) Termination. This Agreement or the Licenses granted hereunder may be terminated by (i) mutual written agreement of Provider and 
Customer, (ii) either party for a material breach of this Agreement by the other party that the breaching party fails to cure to the non-breaching 
party’s reasonable satisfaction within thirty (30) days following its receipt of notice of the breach (“ Breach”), and (iii) Provider for a Breach by a 
Third Party User or MSP Client. 
 
(b) Effect of License Termination. Upon termination of this Agreement or expiration or termination of a License for any reason, all rights 
granted to Customer for the applicable Software shall immediately cease and Customer shall immediately: (i) cease using the applicable Software 
and Documentation, (ii) remove all copies, installations, and instances of the applicable Software from all Customer computers  and any other 
devices on which the Software was installed, and ensure that all applicable Third Party Users and Clients do the same, (iii) return the applicable 
Software to Provider together with all Documentation and other materials associated with the Software and all copies of any of the foregoing, or 
destroy such items, (iv) cease using the Maintenance Services associated with the applicable Software, (v) pay Provider or the applicable Partner 
all amounts due and payable up to the date of termination  and shall not be entitled to any refund , and (vi) give Provider a written certification, 
within ten (10) days, that Customer, Third Party Users and Clients, as applicable, have complied with all of the foregoing obligations.  
 
(c) Survival. Any provision of this Agreement that requires or contemplates continued performance after (i) termination of this Agreement, (ii) a 
termination or expiration of a License, or (iii) the expiration of a SaaS Term, is enforceable against the other party and their respective successors 
and assignees notwithstanding such termination or expiration, including, without limitation, the Restrictions, Export, Payment, Taxes, Effect of 
License Termination, Survival, Warranty Disclaimer, Indemnity, Limitation of Liability , Confidential Information, Compliance Verification, and 
General sections of this Agreement . Termination of this  Agreement or a License shall be without prejudice to any other remedies that the 
terminating party may have under law, subject to the limitations and exclusions set forth in this Agreement. 
 
9. Export. The Products and Maintenance Services are subject to the export control laws, rules, regulations, restrictions, sanctions and national 
security controls of the United States, Europe, and other applicable countries and regions ("Export Controls") and each party agrees to abide 
by the Export Controls.  Customer hereby agrees to use the Products  and Maintenance Services in accordance with the Export Controls, and 
 
 
Effective 15 June 2023 CONFIDENTIAL Page 3 of 8 
 
  
  
shall not Use, export, re-export, sell, lease or otherwise transfer the Products or any copy, portion or direct product of the foregoing in violation of 
the Export Controls.  Customer is solely responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses or authorizations relating to the Use, export, re-export, 
sale, lease or transfer of the Products and for ensuring compliance with the requirements of such licenses or authorizations.    
 
10. Maintenance Services. If ordered, Maintenance Services are provided in accordance with Provider’s then current Support Guide available 
on Provider’s Support Site, which describes the Maintenance Services, including support offering levels, severity levels, response times, and 
contact information. The time period during which Customer is entitled to receive Maintenance Services is a “Maintenance Period.”  
 
The Support Guide is incorporated in this Agreement and subject to change at Provider’s discretion; however, Provider will not materially reduce 
the level of technical support services provided during a paid support period. As part of the Maintenance Services Provider will (i) make available 
new releases and corrections of the Software when Provider makes them generally available to its supported customers at no additional license 
fee, and (ii) provide technical support for issues that are demonstrable in the currently supported release(s) of the Software. Maintenance Services 
fees are due and payable annually in advance of a support period. Except for non-perpetual Licenses (for which the Maintenance Period is equal 
to the duration of the License) and unless otherwise stated in the Order, each License includes an initial Maintenance Period  beginning on the 
date of the initial delivery of the Software following an Order and lasting for twelve (12) months thereafter.  
 
The Maintenance Period for perpetual Licenses will automatically renew for additional terms of 12 months, at the prices stated on a Maintenance 
Services renewal Quotation provided by Provider, unless the renewal has been cancelled by either party with at least sixty (60) days prior written 
notice (email is sufficient). Maintenance Services must be ordered for all copies of each licensed Product and may not be purchased for a subset 
of licenses of a Product only. The procedure and fees for reinstating Maintenance Services for Software after it has lapsed i s posted on the 
Support Site. 
 
11. Warranties and Remedies.   
 
(a) Software Warranty and Remed ies.  Provider warrants that, during the applicable Warranty Period,  the operation of the Software, as 
provided by Provider, will substantially conform to its Documentation (the “Software Warranty”). For On-Premises Software, the warranty shall 
be for ninety (90) days following the initial delivery of the Software pursuant to an Order; and for SaaS Software shall be the duration of the SaaS 
Term (the “Warranty Period”). 
 
Provided Customer notifies Provider of any breach of the foregoing warranty within the Warranty Period, Provider shall at its option (i) correct or 
provide a workaround for reproducible errors in the Software that caused the breach within a reasonable time considering the severity of the error 
and its effect on Customer or (ii) refund the license fees paid for the applicable nonconforming On-Premises Software in exchange for a return of 
such nonconforming On -Premises Software or provide a credit of the fees allocable to the period during which the SaaS Software was not 
operating in substantial conformance with the applicable Documentation. These are Customer’s sole and exclusive remedies and Provider’s sole 
obligation for any such breach of the Software Warranty. 
 
(b) Appliance Warranties. Appliances are warranted in accordance with the warranty document delivered with the Appliance and/or included 
on the hardware manufacturers’ website.  
 
(c) Warranty Exclusions. The warranties set forth in this section shall not apply to any non-conformance (i) that Provider cannot recreate after 
exercising commercially reasonable efforts to attempt to do so; (ii) caused by misuse of the applicable Product or by using the Product in a 
manner that is inconsistent with this Agreement or the Documentation; or (iii) arising from the modification of the Product by anyone other than 
Provider.  
 
(d) Warranty Disclaimer. THE EXPRESS WARRANTIES AND REMEDIES SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION OR IN A SIGNED ORDER OR 
GOVERNING QUOTATION ARE THE ONLY WARRANTIES AND REMEDIES PROVIDED BY PROVIDER HEREUNDER. TO THE MAXIMUM 
EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ALL OTHER WARRANTIES OR REMEDIES ARE EXCLUDED, WHETHER EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, ORAL OR WRITTEN, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCH ANTABILITY, INTEROPERABILITY, FITNESS FOR 
ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON -INFRINGEMENT, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, AND ANY WARRANTIES ARISING FROM USAGE OF 
TRADE OR COURSE OF DEALING OR PERFORMANCE. PROVIDER DOES NOT WARRANT UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR -FREE 
OPERATION OF THE PRODUCTS. 
 
(e) High-Risk Disclaimer. THE PRODUCTS ARE NOT FAULT-TOLERANT AND ARE NOT DESIGNED OR INTENDED FOR USE AND MAY 
NOT BE USED IN HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTS REQUIRING FAIL-SAFE PERFORMANCE, SUCH AS IN THE OPERATION OF NUCLEAR 
FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION OR COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL, WEAPONS SYSTEMS, LIFE SUPPORT 
MACHINES, OR ANY OTHER POTENTIALLY LIFE CRITICAL USES (COLLECTIVELY, “HIGH RISK ACTIVITIES”). PROVIDER SHALL NOT 
BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIMS BY CUSTOMER IN RESPECT OF OR WHICH RELATE DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY TO HIGH-RISK 
ACTIVITIES. 
 
12. Indemnity.    
 
(a) Provider Software Indemnity. Provider shall indemnify Customer from  any claim, suit, action, proceeding brought by a third party (a “Third 
Party Claim”) to the extent it is based on an allegation that the Software directly infringes any patent, copyright, trademark, or other proprietary 
right enforceable in the country in which Provider has authorized Customer to use the Software, including the country to which  the Software is 
delivered to Customer, or misappropriates a trade secret in such country.  Provider shall have no obligation hereunder to indemnify Customer as 
 
 
Effective 15 June 2023 CONFIDENTIAL Page 4 of 8 
 
  
  
described under this section against any Third Party Claim resulting from (1) Use of the Software other than as authorized by this Agreement, a 
Signed Order, or a Governing Quotation; (2)  a modification of the Software other than by Provider, (3) Customer’s Use of any release of the 
Software after Provider has provided a non-infringing update at no charge, or (4) Use of the Software in conjunction with other products, services, 
or data not supplied by Provider if the infringement would not have occurred but for such use. If, as a result of a Third Party Claim or an injunction, 
Customer must stop using any Software (the “Infringing Software”), Provider shall at its expense and option either (1) obtain for Customer the 
right to continue using the Infringing Software, (2) replace the Infringing Software with a functionally equivalent non-infringing product, (3) modify 
the Infringing Software s o that it is non -infringing, or (4) terminate the License for the Infringing Software and (A) for On -Premises Software, 
accept the return of the Infringing Software and refund the license fee paid for the Infringing Software, pro -rated over a sixty (60) mo nth period 
from the date of initial delivery of such Software following an Order, or (B) for SaaS Software, discontinue Customer’s right to access and use the 
Infringing  Software and refund the unused prorated portion of any license fees pre -paid by Custo mer for such Software. This section states 
Provider’s entire liability and its sole and exclusive indemnification obligations with respect to a Third Party Claim and Infringing Software.  
 
(b) Export Compliance Indemnity. Either party shall indemnify the other from and against a Third Party Claim arising from their own party’s 
violation of Section 9 (Export). 
  
(c) Customer Data Indemnity. Customer shall indemnify Provider against a Third Party Claim arising from its Customer Data responsibilities 
under Appendix A- Software as a Service.   
 
(d) Indemnification Obligations. Indemnification for a Third Party Claim shall exclusively consist of the following: indemnifying party shall (1) 
defend or settle the Third Party Claim at its own expense, (2) pay any judgments finally awarded against indemnified party under a Third Party 
Claim or any amounts assessed against indemnified party in any fines or settlements of a Third Party Claim, and (3) reimburse indemnified party 
for the reasonable administrative costs or expenses, including without limitation reasonable attorneys’ fees, it necessarily incurs in responding to 
the Third Party Claim. Indemnifying party’s obligations are conditioned upon indemnified party (i) giving prompt written notice of the Third Party 
Claim to the indemnifying party, (ii) permitting indemnifying party to retain sole control of the investigation, defense or settlement of the  Third 
Party Claim as long as such settlement shall not include a financial obligation on or admission of liability by indemnified party, and (iii) providing 
indemnifying party with cooperation and assistance as indemnifying party may reasonably request in connection with the Third Party Claim. 
 
13. Limitation of Liability.  
 
(A) EXCLUSION OF DAMAGES. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE STATED IN SUBSECTION (C) BELOW, IN NO EVENT SHALL CUSTOMER OR 
ITS AFFILIATES OR PROVIDER, ITS AFFILIATES OR SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR  (X) ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL LOSS OR DAMAGE OF ANY KIND OR (Y) LOSS OF REVENUE, LOSS OF ACTUAL OR ANTICIPATED PROFITS, LOSS 
OF BUSINESS, LOSS OF CONTRACTS, LOSS OF GOODWILL OR REPUTATION, LOSS OF ANTICIPATED SAVINGS, LOSS OF, DAMAGE 
TO OR CORRUPTION OF DATA, HOWSOEVER ARISING, WHETHER SUCH LOSS OR DAMAGE WAS FORESEEABLE OR IN THE 
CONTEMPLATION OF THE PARTIES. 
 
(B) LIABILITY CAP.  EXCEPT OTHERWISE STATED IN SUBSECTION (C) BELOW , THE MAXIMUM AGGREGATE AND CUMULATIVE 
LIABILITY OF CUSTOMER AND ITS AFFILIATES AND PROVIDER, ITS AFFILIATES AND SUPPLIERS, FOR DAMAGES UNDER THIS 
AGREEMENT, WHETHER ARISING IN OR FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), BREACH OF STATUTORY 
DUTY, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL BE THE FEES PAID AND/OR OWED (AS APPLICABLE) BY CUSTOMER OR ITS AFFILIATES FOR THE 
ON-PREMISES PRODUCTS THAT ARE THE SUBJECT OF THE BREACH.  
 
FOR MAINTENANCE SERVICES OR A PRODUCT SUBJECT TO RECURRING FEES  SUCH AS SAAS  SOFTWARE, THE MAXIMUM 
AGGREGATE AND CUMULATIVE LIABILITY SHALL BE THE ANNUALIZED AMOUNT PAID AND/OR OWED (AS APPLICABLE) FOR SUCH 
MAINTENANCE SERVICE OR PRODUCT DURING THE TWELVE (12) MONTHS IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE FIRST INCIDENT GIVING 
RISE TO THE BREACH.   
 
(C) EXCLUSIONS FROM LIABILITY CAP. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT SHALL EXCLUDE OR LIMIT A PARTY’S LIABILITY FOR : (I) 
ANY AMOUNTS DUE AND PAYABLE TO PROVIDER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT; (II) ANY BREACH OF THE RESTRICTIONS SECTION; (III) 
INDEMNITY OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE INDEMNITY SECTION; OR (IV) ANY LIABILITY TO THE EXTENT LIABILITY MAY NOT BE 
EXCLUDED OR LIMITED AS A MATTER OF APPLICABLE LAW. 
 
The waivers and limitations in this Limitation of Liability section apply regardless of the form of action, whether in contra ct, tort (including 
negligence), strict liability, breach of statutory duty or otherwise and will survive and apply even if any limited remedy in this Agreement fails of its 
essential purpose and even if a party has been advised of the possibility of such liabilities or failures. 
 
14. Confidential Information 
 
(a) Definition.  “Confidential Information” means information or materials disclosed by one party ( “Disclosing Party”) to the other party (  
“Receiving Party”) that are not generally available to the public and which, due to their character and nature, a reasonable person under like  
circumstances would treat as confidential, including, without limitation, financial, marketing, and pricing information, trad e secrets, know-how, 
proprietary tools, knowledge and methodologies, the Software (in source code and/or object code form), information or benchmark test results 
regarding the functionality and performance of the Software, any Software license keys provided to Customer, and the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement.   
 
 
 
Effective 15 June 2023 CONFIDENTIAL Page 5 of 8 
 
  
  
Confidential Information shall not include information or materials that (i) are generally known to the public, other than as a result of an unpermitted 
disclosure by the Receiving Party after the Effective Date; (ii) were known to the Receiving Party without an obligation of confidentiality prior to 
receipt from the Disclosing Party; (iii) the Receiving Party lawfully received from a third party without that third party’s breach of agreement or 
obligation of trust; or ( iv) are or were independently  developed by the Receiving Party without access to or use of the Disclosing Party’s 
Confidential Information 
 
(b) Obligations.  The Receiving Party shall (i) not disclose the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information to any third party, except as permitted 
in subsection (c) below, and (ii) protect the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information from unauthorized use or disclosure by exercising at least 
the same degree of care it uses to protect its own similar information, but in no event less than a reasonable degree of care.  The Receiving Party 
shall promptly notify the Disclosing Party of any known unauthorized use or disclosure of the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information and will 
cooperate with the Disclosing Party in any litigation brought by the Disclosing Party against third parties to protect its propr ietary rights.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, this section shall apply to all disclosures of the parties’ Confidential Information as of the Effective Date, whether or not 
specifically arising from a party’s performance under this Agreement. 
 
(c) Permitted Disclosures. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Receiving Party may disclose the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information 
without the Disclosing Party’s prior written consent to any of its Affiliates, directors, officers, employees, consultants, contractors or representatives 
(collectively, the “Representatives”), but only to those Representatives that (i) have a “need to know” in order to carry out the purposes of this 
Agreement or to provide professional advice in connection with this Agreement, (ii) are legally bound to the Receiving Party to protect information 
such as the Confidential Information under terms at least as restrictive as those provided herein, and (iii) have bee n informed by the Receiving 
Party of the confidential nature of the Confidential Information and the requirements regarding restrictions on disclosure an d use as set forth in 
this section.  The Receiving Party shall be l iable to the Disclosing Party for th e acts or omissions of any Representatives to which it discloses 
Confidential Information which, if done by the Receiving Party, would be a breach of this Agreement. Additionally, it shall not be a breach of this 
section for the Receiving Party to disclose the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information as may be required by operation of law or legal process, 
provided that the Receiving Party provides prior notice of such disclosure to the Disclosing Party unless expressly prohibited from doing so by a 
court, arbitration panel or other legal authority of competent jurisdiction. 
 
15. Data Protection.   
 
(a) Data Privacy. Each party shall comply with all laws and regulations applicable to the processing of personal data in connection with any 
transactions related to this Agreement, such as but not limited to, the California Consumer Privacy Act  as amended by the California Privacy 
Rights Act, the General Data Protection Regulation, or the UK Data Protection Act, including  any implementation act(s) related thereto, or any 
other applicable laws regulations and other legal requirements related to (a) privacy and data security, and (b) the use, collection, retention, 
storage, security, disclosure, transfer, disposal and other processing of personal data (“ Privacy Laws”). Each party is responsible for obtaining 
any necessary authorizations and consents prior to disclosin g personal data to the other party or to any third party. The terms “controller”, 
“personal data” and “processing” used in this section shall have the meaning set out in the applicable Privacy Laws. Either party may use personal 
data consisting of ordinary  business contact data (e.g., name, phone number, email address, etc.) in its capacity as a controller strictly in 
accordance with applicable Privacy Laws in the normal course of business but only for the purpose of administration of the pa rty’s business 
relationship and performance of their obligations under this Agreement.  
 
(b)  General Security . Details on Provider’s information security practices, data incident response policies, technical and organizational 
measures, and software development security practices are available at https://www.quest.com/legal/security.aspx (collectively “Security Site”). 
Customer agrees that Provider may modify its Security Site so long as it does not materially decrease the overall level of protection provided.   
 
16. License Verification.  
 
(a) Reporting. Customer shall maintain and use systems and procedures that allow Customer to accurately and completely track, document, 
and report Customer’s Use of each Product in the quantities and versions used  in compliance with the Product Terms  and this Agreement and 
allow Provider to audit the same (an “Audit”). Audits may be performed by Provider or its designated agents. Provider shall provide at least ten 
(10) days prior written notice to Customer before the start of an Audit and will conduct the Audit during normal business hours. Customer shall 
provide and will require its Clients and Third Party Users to provide their full cooperation and assistance with such audit and provide a ccess to 
the applicable records and computers.  
 
(b) Confidentiality. Prov ider agrees that any Customer information gathered during the performance of an audit shall be Customer’s 
Confidential Information under this Agreement.  Customer agrees that it will not require any further confidentiality or nondi sclosure agreements 
to be executed by Provider or its designated agents in connection with the Audit. Prior to the Audit, Provider shall ensure that its agents are 
subject to confidentiality obligations at least as protective as those set forth herein.   
 
(c) Excess Use. If an Audit indicates that Customer’s installations, deployment, access of or provision of access to, or operation of each Product 
exceeds the quantity of licenses owned or is otherwise not in compliance with the scope of the license granted (“Overuse”), then Customer shall 
pay for all Overuse quantities at Provider’s then current list price plus any interest on past due amounts and prior Maintenance Service fees. If 
the Overuse is more than five percent (5%) of Customer’s license entitlements, then Customer shall reimburse Provider for Provider’s reasonable 
cost of performing the Audit . Strict performance by Customer in accordance with this provision is an express condition to all or any licenses 
granted in this Agreement. 
 
 
 
Effective 15 June 2023 CONFIDENTIAL Page 6 of 8 
 
  
  
17. General.   
 
(a) Governing Law and Venue.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, 
without giving effect to any conflict of laws principles that would require the application of laws of a different state.  Any action seeking enforcement 
of this Agreement or any provision hereof shall be brought exclusively in the state or federal courts located in the State of Delaware. Each party 
hereby agrees to submit to the jurisdiction of such courts. The parties agre e that neither the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the 
International Sale of Goods, nor the Uniform Computer Information Transaction Act (UCITA) shall apply to this Agreement, rega rdless of the 
states in which the parties do business or are incorporated.   
 
(b) Assignment. Except as otherwise set forth herein,  Customer shall not, in whole or part, assign or transfer any part of this Agreement , the 
Licenses granted under this Agreement or any other rights, interest or obligations hereunder, whether voluntarily, by contract, by operation of law 
or by merger (whether that party is the surviving or disappearing entity), stock or asset sale, consolidation, dissolution, through government action 
or order, or otherwise without the prior written consent of Provider.  Any attempted transfer or assignment by Customer that is not permitted by 
this Agreement shall be null and void.   
 
(c) Severability. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held by a court of competent juri sdiction to be contrary to law,  such provision will 
be enforced to the maximum extent permissible by law to affect the intent of the parties and the remaining provisions of this Agreement will remain 
in full force and effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms of this Agreement that limit, disclaim, or exclude warranties, remedies or damages 
are intended by the parties to be independent and remain in effect despite any failure or unenforceability thereof. The parties have relied on the 
limitations and exclusions set forth in this Agreement in determining whether to enter into it. 
 
(d) Use by U.S. Government.  The Software is a “commercial item” under FAR 12.201. Consistent with FAR section 12.212 and DFARS section 
227.7202, any use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, disclosure or distribution of the Software or Documentation by the 
U.S. government is prohibited except as expressly permitted by the  terms of this Agreement. In addition, when Customer is a U.S. government 
entity, the language in Subsection (a)(ii) of the Infringement Indemnity  Section of this Agreement and  the Injunctive Relief Section of this 
Agreement shall not be applicable. 
 
(e) Notices. All notices provided hereunder shall be in writing and addressed to the legal department of the respective party or to such o ther 
address as may be specified in an Order or in writing by either of the parties to the other in accordance with this section. Except as may be 
expressly permitted herein, notices may be delivered personally, sent to an email address specified by the receiving party, sent via a nationally 
recognized courier or overnight delivery service, or mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid.  All notices, requests, demands or communications 
shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or, if sent by mail, four (4) days following deposit in the mail in accordance with this paragraph. 
Provider may also send operational notices via the SaaS Software, Documentation, or make available on the Support Site. 
 
(f) Disclosure of Customer Status. Provider may include Customer in its listing of customers and, upon written consent by Customer, 
announce Customer's selection of Provider in its marketing communications.  
 
(g) Waiver. Performance of any obligation required by a party hereunder may be waived only by a written waiver signed by an authorized 
representative of the other party, which waiver shall be effective only with respect to the specific obligation described therein. Any waiver or failure 
to enforce any provision of this Agreement on one occasion will not be deemed a waiver of any other provision or of such provision on any other 
occasion. 
 
(h) Injunctive Relief. Each party acknowledges and agrees that in the event of a material breach of this Agreement, including but not limited to 
a breach of the Software License, Restrictions or Confidential Information Sections of this Agreement, the non-breaching party shall be entitled 
to seek immediate injunctive relief, without limiting its other rights and remedies.  
 
(i) Force Majeure. Each party will be excused from performance for any period during which, and to the extent that, it is prevented from 
performing any obligation or service as a result of causes beyond its reasonable control, and without its fault or negligence, including without 
limitation, acts of God, strikes, lockouts, riots, acts of war, epidemics, pandemics, and third party utility or Internet failures. For added certainty, 
this section shall not operate to change, delete, or modify any of the parties’ obligations under this Agreement (e.g., payment), but rather only to 
excuse a delay in the performance of such obligations.  
 
(j) Equal Opportunity. Provider is a federal contractor and Affirmative Action employer (M/F/D/V) as required by the Equal Opportunity clause 
C.F.R. § 60-741.5(a). 
 
(k) Headings. Headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and do not affect the meaning or interpretation of th is Agreement. This 
Agreement will not be construed either in favor of or against one party or the other, but rather in accordance with its fair meaning. When the term 
“including” is used in this Agreement it will be construed in each case to mean “including, but not limited to.” 
 
(l) Legal Fees.  If any legal action is brought to enforce obligations related to payment, compliance verification, or a violation of intellectual 
property rights, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys’ fees, full costs and other collection expenses, in addition 
to any other relief it may be awarded.    
 
(m) Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the total agreement between the two parties regarding the subject matter covered herein and 
supersedes any other agreements, written, oral, expressed, or implied, including any confidentiality agreement between the parties. Unless there 
 
 
Effective 15 June 2023 CONFIDENTIAL Page 7 of 8 
 
  
  
is a prevailing signed Agreement between the Parties, all Orders are governed solely and exclusively by this Agreement and any additional or 
varying terms stated on a Signed Order or a Governing Quotation. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms 
contained in a Signed Order or Governing Quotation, the terms of a Signed Order or Governing Quotation shall control. For all other Orders, the 
terms of this Agreement shall exclusively control. Neither this Agreemen t, nor an Order, may be modified or amended except by a written 
agreement executed by a duly authorized representative of each party.  No other act, document, usage or custom shall be deemed to amend or 
modify this Agreement or an Order and Customer agrees that all additional or inconsistent terms that may be contained in any purchase order or 
other documentation submitted by Customer in connection with an Order are not applicable. Customer agrees that all of Customer’s licenses for 
such Product, regardless of license date, will be governed by the version of the Software Transaction Agreement and applicable Product Terms 
in effect on the date of the most recent license purchase. 
 
 
APPENDIX A:  SOFTWARE LICENSE TERMS 
 
(1) On-Premises Software. If Software is delivered to Customer for (i) Customer’s installation and use on its own equipment or (ii) pre-installed 
by Provider on an Appliance  (“On-Premises Software”), the License term shall be perpetual (unless otherwise stated on the Order) and shall 
also include the right to (i) make a reasonable number of additional copies of the On-Premises Software to be used solely for non -productive 
archival or passive disaster recovery purposes, provided such copies are kept in a secure location and are not used for production purposes 
unless the associated primary copy of the On-Premises Software is no longer being used for production purposes, and (ii) make and use copies 
of the Documentation as reasonably necessary to support Customer’s authorized users in their Use of the On-Premises Software. Each License 
for On-Premises Software shall only be installed by Customer in the country in which the On-Premises Software is initially delivered to Customer. 
 
(2) Software as a Service. If an Order provides Customer with a right to access and use Software installed on equipment hosted by Provider or 
its suppliers (“SaaS Software”), the License for such SaaS Software shall be granted for the duration of the term stated in the Order (the “SaaS 
Term”), as such SaaS Term may be extended by auto matic or agreed upon renewals . If any item of On-Premises Software to be installed on 
Customer’s equipment is provided in connection with SaaS Software, the License duration for such Software shall be for the corresponding SaaS 
Term, and Customer shall promptly install any updates to such Software as may be provided by Provider.  “SaaS Environment” means the 
systems to which Customer is provided access in connection with its use of the SaaS Software.  
 
(a) Availability.  Provider will make commercially reasonable efforts to make the SaaS Software available twenty -four hours a day, seven 
days a week except for scheduled maintenance, the installation of updates, those factors that are beyond the reasonable control of Provider, 
Customer’s failure to meet any minimum system requirements communicated to Customer by Provider, and any breach of the Agreem ent or 
this Addendum by Customer that impacts the availability of the SaaS Software. Provider shall provide reasonable advance notice to Customer 
of any scheduled maintenance.  Provider can limit or suspend Customer’s access to the SaaS Software if it is sufficiently probable that the 
continued use of the SaaS Software may result in harm to the SaaS Software, other Provider customers, or the rights of third parties in such a 
way that immediate action is required to avoid damages or Customer is in breach of the Agreement. If circumstances allow and if reasonably 
practicable, Provider will give Customer notice so that Customer may seek to promptly avoid the issue and avoid suspension.  
 
(b) Customer Data.  Customer represents and warrants that it (i) has all rights necessary to use any data, content or materials that Customer 
(including its users) submits or includes from third -party platforms to the SaaS Environment (“ Customer Data”) without violating third -party 
intellectual property, privacy or other rights and gr ants Provider the right to access, transmit, process and use Customer Data to provide and 
support the SaaS Software as set out in the Agreement, and (ii) will use industry -standard measures to avoid introducing viruses, malicious 
code or similar harmful ma terials into the SaaS Environment. Between the parties, Customer is responsible for the content and accuracy of 
Customer Data.   
 
(c)  Data Processing. If Provider processes any personal data on behalf of the Customer through the Customer’s use of the SaaS Software 
then Provider’s standard data processing addendum at https://www.quest.com/legal/dpa.aspx or such separate terms as mutually agreed in 
writing, will apply to such data processing and will become a part of this Agreement. For clarity, any data protection or security agreement 
relating to data processed under this Agreement will always be considered a part of this Agreement and not a stand-alone agreement.    
 
(d) Cooperation. Customer shall cooperate with  Provider’s reasonable investigation of SaaS Environment outages, security issues, and 
any suspected breach of this Software as a Service section.   
  
(3) MSP License. If an Order indicates that Software is to be used by Customer as a managed service provi der, Customer shall be granted a 
License to use such Software and the associated Documentation to provide  Management Services (a n “MSP License” ). “Management 
Services” include, without limitation, application, operating system, and database implementation, performance tuning, and maintenance 
services provided by Customer to its customers (each, a “Client” or an “MSP Client). If an Order indicates that an MSP License will be used to 
support a specific Client, Customer may not Use the MSP License to support any Client other than the Client named on the Order.  
 
(a) Customer Responsibilities .  Customer shall ensure that (i) each Client only uses the Software and Docu mentation as part of the 
Management Services provided to it by Customer, (ii) such use is subject to the restrictions and limitations contained in thi s Agreement, 
including, but not limited to those in the Restrictions and Export sections of this Agreement, and the applicable Order, and (iii) each Client 
cooperates with Provider during any compliance review that may be conducted by Provider or its designated agent. Customer agrees that the 
acts and omissions of its Clients in connection with their use of the Software and Documentation shall be deemed the acts and omissions of 
Customer. 
 
Page 8 of 8 
(b) Client Support. Customer shall be solely responsible for supporting its Client, including but not limited to, conducting all activities required
to install the Software and for providing any training to its Client and any system integrators regarding the installation, use and operation of the
Software.  Customer will provide Management Services to its Client in a manner that does not degrade the goodwill and reputation of Provider
or the Software and will not undertake any action that would impair or disrupt Provider's relationship with its customers or potential customers.
Customer will make no representations or warranties related to the Software in excess of Pr ovider’s representations or warranties contained
in this Agreement. At the conclusion of any Management Services engagement with a Client, Customer shall promptly remove any Software
installed on its Client’s computer equipment or require the Client to do the same.
(c) Perpetual MSP License Assignment. In the event Customer acquires a perpetual MSP License, Customer may assign the Software to
its Client for the Clients’ internal use, provided that Customer obtains Provider’s prior written consent for the assignment and the Client agrees
to be bound by Provider’s then current license agreement. Customer understands and agrees that Customer shall have no right t o charge a
fee to its Client(s) for such an assignment and that following such an assignment, Customer shall have no further rights to use the assigned
Software, and the applicable License shall terminate in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Any attempted transfer or assignment of
the Software to a Client in violation of the foregoing shall be null and void.
(4) Evaluation License. If an Order indicates that Software is to be used  by Customer for evaluation purposes , or if Software is otherwise
obtained from Provider for evaluation purposes, Customer shall be granted a License to Use such Software and the associated Documentation
solely for Customer’s own non-production, internal evaluation purposes (an “Evaluation License”). Each Evaluation License shall be granted
for an evaluation period of up to thirty (30) days from the date of delivery of the On-Premises Software or from the date that access is granted to
the SaaS Software , plus any extensions granted by Provider in writing (the "Evaluation Period"). There is no fee for an Evaluation License
during the Evaluation Period, however, Customer is responsible for any applicable shipping charges or taxes which may be incurred, and any
fees which may be associated with Use beyond the scope permitted herein. Customer will only be granted one Evaluation License per release of
any item of Software. Notwithstanding anything otherwise set forth in this Agreement, Customer understands and agrees that Evaluation Licenses
are provided “AS IS” and that Provider does not provide warranties or Maintenance Services for Evaluation Licenses.
(5) Freeware License.  If Customer downloads a freeware version of Software from a Provider website, the terms of Use of such Software shall
be governed by the applicable Freeware definition set forth in the Product Guide (a “ Freeware License”). Notwithstanding anything otherwise
set forth in this Agreement, Customer understands and agrees that Freeware Licenses are (i) provided “AS IS”, (ii) Provider d oes not provide
warranties or Maintenance Services for Fre eware Licenses, and (iii) Freeware Licenses are for internal use only and may not  be distributed to
any third party.
(6) Use by Third Parties. Customer may allow its services vendors, outsourcing providers, and contractors (each, a “Third Party User”) to Use
the Software and Documentation, provided that Customer ensures that (i) the Third Party User’s access to or use of the Softwa re and
Documentation is subject to the restrictions and limitations contained in this Agreement, including, but not limited to those in the Export Section,
and the applicable Order(s), (ii) the Third Party User cooperates with Provider during any compliance review that may be conducted by Provider
or its designated agent, and (iii) the Third Party User promptly removes any Softwar e installed on its computer equipment upon the completion
of the Third Party’s need to access or use the Software as permitted by this Section. Customer agrees that the acts and omiss ions of its Third
Party Users related to this Agreement, the Software, and Orders shall be deemed the acts and omissions of Customer.
(7) Open Source.  Software distributed to Customer (if any) may include third  party open source software (“ Open Source”) as listed in the
Documentation or by Provider upon request. If Customer elects to use the Open Source on a stand -alone basis, that use is subject to the
applicable Open Source license and not this Agreement.
End of Appendix A / End of Software Transaction Agreement
CITY OF CHEYENNE, WYOMING 
By:________________________________________________ Date ______________ 
Patrick Collins, Mayor 
Date ______________ 
ATTEST: 
By:________________________________________________ 