RESOLUTION NO. __________ 
 
ENTITLED: "A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE CHEYENNE BOARD OF 
PUBLIC UTILITIES TO EXECUTE A GRANT AGREEMENT WITH THE 
WYOMING OFFICE OF HOMELAND SECURITY FOR FEDERAL 
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY REHABILITATION OF HIGH 
HAZARD POTENTIAL DAMS  FUNDING AND TO AUTHORIZE THE 
DIRECTOR OF THE BOARD TO EXECUTE ALL RELATED 
DOCUMENTS." 
 
WHEREAS, Wyoming Statutes §§ 15-7-401 through 15-7-412 provides for cities or towns 
to establish  a Board of Public Utilities (BOPU) to manage, operate, maintain, and control 
municipal waterworks, sanitary sewer system and sewage disposal plants; 
 
WHEREAS, Cheyenne City Code, Section 2.68.010, establishes that BOPU has exclusive 
authority to manage, operate, maintain and control the Cheyenne Municipal Waterworks, Sanitary 
Sewage System and Sewage Disposal Plants of the City and to make all rules and regulations 
necessary for the safe, economical and efficient operation and maintenance of the above facilities; 
 
WHEREAS, BOPU has been awarded a grant pursuant to an agreement with the Wyoming 
Office of Homeland Security through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Federal 
Emergency Management Agency Fiscal Year 2024 Rehabilitation of High Hazard Potential Dams 
Grant Program (HHPD) 
 
WHEREAS, the HHPD Grant will allow BOPU to complete scoping and engineering 
design for the modifications of the principal and auxiliary spillways at the Upper Van Tassell Dam, 
also known as New North Crow (Project); 
 
WHEREAS, the Project cost estimate for analysis and other administrative costs is 
$310,000.00, which includes engineering, consulting and miscellaneous costs; 
 
WHEREAS, the Project meets the criteria and has been awarded a grant in the amount of 
$201,500.00; 
 
WHEREAS, BOPU has secured $50,375.00 from the Governor’s Infrastructure Matching 
Funds towards the Project that will serve as matching funds; 
 
WHEREAS, BOPU has budgeted $ 58,125.00 towards the Project that will serve as 
matching funds; 
 
WHEREAS, the awarded HHPD Grant funds shall only be used to cover costs incurred 
during the period ending on September 23, 2027; and 
 
WHEREAS, BOPU recognizes that the Project is necessary and that it is essential for the 
continued operation of the Upper Van Tassell Dam. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY 
OF CHEYENNE, WYOMING, that an agreement be signed between the City of Cheyenne Board 
of Public Utilities and Wyoming Office of Homeland Security for a grant through the U.S. 
Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency Fiscal Year 2024 
Rehabilitation of High Hazard Potential Dams Grant Program for an amount not to exceed two 
hundred one thousand five hundred dollars ($201,500.00) for project costs; and 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Director of the Board of Public Utilities is hereby 
designated as the authorized representative of the City of Cheyenne and is authorized to act on 
behalf of the City in all matters relating to the Grant Agreement and any related documents, 
including the execution of the Grant Agreement of any amendments to the Agreement. 
 
 
PRESENTED, READ AND ADOPTED THIS _______ DAY OF __________________, 
2026. 
 
 
__________________________________________  
Patrick Collins, Mayor 
 
(SEAL)  
 
 
ATTEST:  
 
____________________________________  
Kylie Soden, City Clerk 
 












Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
FY24 Fall HHPD
City of Cheyenne - Board of Public Utilities
POC: Brad Bowen, bbowen@cheyennebopu.org, 307-637-6460
SAA POC: Ashley Paulsrud, ashley.paulsrud@wyo.gov, 307-777-4907
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Project Location and Community Description: The City of Cheyenne Wyoming (City),
Board of Public Utilities (BOPU), owns, operates, and maintains a municipal water
supply reservoir known as Upper Van T assell, NID WY00007. The Upper Van T assell
Dam is located at North Crow Reservoir in far western Laramie County, Wyoming near
the Albany County, Wyoming border (41.2348, -105.2778). On April 28, 2022, the
Wyoming State Engineer’s Office (SEO) conducted an inspection of the associated high
hazard dam and rated the condition as POOR. The dam is not federally owned, it does
not produce hydroelectric power, nor is it a dam built under the authority of the Secretary
of Agriculture.
2. Summary of the Watershed Characteristics: Crow Creek is a 153 mile-long creek and
minor waterway of southeastern Wyoming and northern Colorado and is a tributary of
the South Platte River. Crow Creek is formed by the confluence of the South Fork,
Middle Fork, and North Fork of Crow Creek. All these tributaries of Crow Creek begin in
the Laramie Range in Albany and Laramie Counties. The headwaters (North and South
Branch) of the North Fork are dammed to form the North Crow Reservoir (Upper Van
T assell Dam). Additionally, the Middle Fork is also dammed for municipal water use. The
tributaries are vital water supplies for the City of Cheyenne's municipal water system.
The upper watershed of Crow Creek is represented by state lands, national forest lands,
and private lands surrounding the municipal water supply reservoirs. The reservoirs are
impacted by forest management, livestock grazing, intense recreation used, and
development for small acreage housing. The Crow Creek watershed as a whole is the
most populated watershed within the State of Wyoming. The watershed is a vital
element of the municipal water system for the City of Cheyenne.
3. Dam Deficiency(ices): Uncontrolled Seepage Above and Below T oe, Excessively
Corroded Outlet Pipe, Excessively Cracked and Spalled Spillway
On August 14, 2020, a preliminary evaluation of Upper Van T assell’s spillway system
determined the principal spillway was undersized and near the end of its serviceable life.
The upstream cutoff wall has known leakage issues. These findings along with SEO’s
condition rating of POOR, has elevated the need to replace and enlarge the principal
spillway and make other associated modifications to correct deficiencies and reduce
risks with this high hazard dam.
4. Description of all proposed activities/objectives: This project consists of two phases
necessary for future dam rehabilitation. Phase One is scoping in nature. Phase Two
Attachment A - Subgrant Project Scoping Application
Attachment A to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 1 of 3
includes engineering design for modification and rehabilitation of the principal and
auxiliary spillways. The outcome of this project will provide a basis for additional grant
applications to cover construction costs for rehabilitation of the HHPD.
PROJECT SCHEDULE (based on an award by the end of 2024)
January - February 2025 Complete FEMA environmental and historic
preservation compliance review
March 2025 Execute the funding agreement
April - June 2025 Request for proposals and contractor
selection
July - December 2025 Contractor oversight completion of Phase
One - safety evaluation and SQRA
January - December 2026 Contractor oversight and completion of Phase
Two - spillway systems engineering design
January 2027 Project completion and closeout for contract
and subaward
BOPU will provide necessary project and budget details to the State Administrative Agency
(SAA) to ensure compliance with quarterly Federal Financial Reports, semi-annual Performance
Progress Reports, and the final report to FEMA.
DETAILED COST ESTIMATE
Phase One - Safety Evaluation and SQRA $ 87,000
Phase Two - Spillway Systems Engineering Design $ 222,000
Project Signage $ 1,000
T otal Project Costs $ 310,000
Federal Portion (65%) $ 201,500
Non-federal Portion (35%) $ 108,500
BOPU has attached a letter of commitment for the non-federal cost share.
BUDGET NARRATIVE
The Phase One and Phase Two costs listed above are based on cost estimates provided by
engineering consultants; Phase One data was from 2020 and Phase Two data was from 2022.
The original cost estimates have been adjusted for inflation plus a 5% contingency. United
States Bureau of Labor Statistics, CPI values, were utilized for prior years and estimated
inflation was used for future years. The actual values used were: 3.6% (2021), 6.2% (2022),
4.8% (2023), 4.0% (2024 estimated), and 3.5% (2025 estimated).
Attachment A - Subgrant Project Scoping Application
Attachment A to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 2 of 3
PHASE ONE
In Phase One, BOPU will retain a professional engineering consultant with expertise in dams
and spillways to conduct a detailed dam safety evaluation and Semi-Quantitative Risk Analysis
(SQRA) for Upper Van T assell dam and spillways for an estimated cost of $87,000.
Phase One tasks include the following:
● Review available design, construction, inundation maps, steam gage flows, and other
dam and spillway information.
● Conduct an SQRA workshop with the dam owner and the SEO.
● Develop detailed descriptions of Potential Failure Modes (PFMs) ranked in order of
likelihood.
● Develop hydrologic loadings and rainfall distributions for various floods and the Probable
Maximum Precipitation (PMP).
● Develop life loss consequences based on two-dimensional dam breach and inundation
analysis for a sunny day breach, flood without breach, and a flood with breach.
● Create a report summarizing the findings and make recommendations for future dam
safety activities.
PHASE TWO
The safety evaluation and SQRA will be incorporated into the owner’s risk-informed analysis
and guide the owner’s decision-making process as to what future design and construction
projects are needed to improve their dam safety practices and rehabilitation investments. Phase
Two of this project will complete the engineering design and specifications for replacing and
modifying the spillway system for an estimated cost of $222,000.
Phase Two tasks include:
● Review of existing studies and evaluations, design and construction documents,
inundation maps, steam gauge flows, and other dam and spillway information.
● Conduct on-site observations of the existing conditions.
● Hold a project scoping meeting with BOPU and SEO staff.
● Complete hydrologic studies to determine what modifications and improvements are
needed to the spillway systems to allow Upper Van T assell dam and reservoir to meet
current standards and minimize risks associated with the continued operation of the
dam.
● Produce design documents for review by the BOPU and SEO staff at the 50%, 90%, and
100% stages.
● Produce estimates of probable construction costs for the spillway modifications at each
review stage.
SIGNAGE
During the project, BOPU will provide signage as necessary to meet all regulatory requirements
and ensure the successful completion of the project. Estimated signage costs not to exceed
$1,000.
Attachment A - Subgrant Project Scoping Application
Attachment A to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 3 of 3
Agreement Articles
Program: Fiscal Year 2024 Rehabilitation of High Hazard Potential Dams program
Recipient: STATE OF WYOMING
UEI-EFT: X7BTN16ZQSY9
DUNS number: 132720264
Award number: EMD-2024-GR-05002
Table of contents
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 1 of 15
Article
1
Assurances, Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, Representations, and
Certiﬁcations
Article
2
General Acknowledgements and Assurances
Article
3
Acknowledgement of Federal Funding from DHS
Article
4
Activities Conducted Abroad
Article
5
Age Discrimination Act of 1975
Article
6
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
Article
7
Best Practices for Collection and Use of Personally Identiﬁable Information
Article
8
Civil Rights Act of 1964 – Title VI
Article
9
Civil Rights Act of 1968
Article
10
Copyright
Article
11
Debarment and Suspension
Article
12
Drug-Free Workplace Regulations
Article
13
Duplicative Costs
Article
14
Education Amendments of 1972 (Equal Opportunity in Education Act) – Title IX
Article
15
E.O. 14074 – Advancing Eﬀective, Accountable Policing and Criminal Justice
Practices to Enhance Public Trust and Public Safety
Article
16
Energy Policy and Conservation Act
Article
17
False Claims Act and Program Fraud Civil Remedies
Article
18
Federal Debt Status
Article
19
Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving
Article
20
Fly America Act of 1974
Article
21
Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990
Article
22
John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2019
Article
23
Limited English Proﬁciency (Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI)
Article
24
Lobbying Prohibitions
Article
25
National Environmental Policy Act
Article
26
Nondiscrimination in Matters Pertaining to Faith-Based Organizations
Article
27
Non-Supplanting Requirement
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 2 of 15
Article
28
Notice of Funding Opportunity Requirements
Article
29
Patents and Intellectual Property Rights
Article
30
Procurement of Recovered Materials
Article
31
Rehabilitation Act of 1973
Article
32
Reporting of Matters Related to Recipient Integrity and Performance
Article
33
Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation
Article
34
Required Use of American Iron, Steel, Manufactured Products, and Construction
Materials
Article
35
SAFECOM
Article
36
Terrorist Financing
Article
37
Traﬃcking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (TVPA)
Article
38
Universal Identiﬁer and System of Award Management
Article
39
USA PATRIOT Act of 2001
Article
40
Use of DHS Seal, Logo and Flags
Article
41
Whistleblower Protection Act
Article
42
Environmental Planning and Historic Preservation (EHP) Review
Article
43
Applicability of DHS Standard Terms and Conditions to Tribes
Article
44
Acceptance of Post Award Changes
Article
45
Disposition of Equipment Acquired Under the Federal Award
Article
46
Prior Approval for Modiﬁcation of Approved Budget
Article
47
Indirect Cost Rate
Article
48
Pass-Through to Subrecipients
Article
49
Mitigation Plan Extraordinary Circumstances
Article
50
Revision of Budget and Scope of Work Package (formerly called “amendment
/workplan”)
Article
51
Eligible High Hazard Potential Dam Documentation
Article
52
Performance Goal
Article
53
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act Funded Projects
Article
54
Funding Hold: Detailed Cost Breakdown & Justiﬁcation Required
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 3 of 15
Article 1 Assurances, Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles,
Representations, and Certiﬁcations
I. Recipients must complete either the Oﬃce of Management and Budget (OMB)
Standard Form 424B Assurances – Non- Construction Programs, or OMB Standard
Form 424D Assurances – Construction Programs, as applicable. Certain
assurances in these documents may not be applicable to your program and the
DHS ﬁnancial assistance oﬃce (DHS FAO) may require applicants to certify
additional assurances. Applicants are required to ﬁll out the assurances as
instructed by the federal awarding agency.
Article 2 General Acknowledgements and Assurances
Recipients are required to follow the applicable provisions of the Uniform
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal
Awards in eﬀect as of the federal award date and located at 2 C.F.R. Part 200 and
adopted by DHS at 2 C.F.R. § 3002.10. All recipients and subrecipients must
acknowledge and agree to provide DHS access to records, accounts, documents,
information, facilities, and staﬀ pursuant to 2 C.F.R. § 200.337. I. Recipients must
cooperate with any DHS compliance reviews or compliance investigations. II.
Recipients must give DHS access to examine and copy records, accounts, and
other documents and sources of information related to the federal ﬁnancial
assistance award and permit access to facilities and personnel. III. Recipients must
submit timely, complete, and accurate reports to the appropriate DHS oﬃcials and
maintain appropriate backup documentation to support the reports. IV. Recipients
must comply with all other special reporting, data collection, and evaluation
requirements required by law, federal regulation, Notice of Funding Opportunity,
federal award speciﬁc terms and conditions, and/or federal awarding agency
program guidance. V. Recipients must complete the DHS Civil Rights Evaluation
Tool within thirty (30) days of receiving the Notice of Award for the ﬁrst award under
which this term applies. Recipients of multiple federal awards from DHS should only
submit one completed tool for their organization, not per federal award. After the
initial submission, recipients are required to complete the tool once every two (2)
years if they have an active federal award, not every time a federal award is made.
Recipients must submit the completed tool, including supporting materials, to
CivilRightsEvaluation@hq.dhs.gov. This tool clariﬁes the civil rights obligations and
related reporting requirements contained in these DHS Standard Terms and
Conditions. Subrecipients are not required to complete and submit this tool to DHS.
The evaluation tool can be found at https://www.dhs.gov/publication/dhs- civil-
rights-evaluation-tool. DHS Civil Rights Evaluation Tool | Homeland Security. The
DHS Oﬃce for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties will consider, in its discretion, granting
an extension to the 30-day deadline if the recipient identiﬁes steps and a timeline for
completing the tool. Recipients must request extensions by emailing the request to
CivilRightsEvaluation@hq.dhs.gov prior to expiration of the 30-day deadline.
Article 3 Acknowledgement of Federal Funding from DHS
Recipients must acknowledge their use of federal award funding when issuing
statements, press releases, requests for proposal, bid invitations, and other
documents describing projects or programs funded in whole or in part with federal
award funds.
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 4 of 15
Article 4 Activities Conducted Abroad
Recipients must coordinate with appropriate government authorities when
performing project activities outside the United States obtain all appropriate
licenses, permits, or approvals.
Article 5 Age Discrimination Act of 1975
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the Age Discrimination Act of
1975, Pub. L. No. 94-135 (codiﬁed as amended at 42 U.S.C. § 6101 et seq.), which
prohibits discrimination on the basis of age in any program or activity receiving
federal ﬁnancial assistance.
Article 6 Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Titles I, II, and III of the Americans
with Disabilities Act, Pub. L. No. 101-336 (1990) (codiﬁed as amended at 42 U.S.C.
§§ 12101– 12213), which prohibits recipients from discriminating on the basis of
disability in the operation of public entities, public and private transportation
systems, places of public accommodation, and certain testing entities.
Article 7 Best Practices for Collection and Use of Personally Identiﬁable Information
Recipients who collect personally identiﬁable information (PII) as part of carrying
out the scope of work under a federal award are required to have a publicly
available privacy policy that describes standards on the usage and maintenance of
the PII they collect. DHS deﬁnes PII as any information that permits the identity of
an individual to be directly or indirectly inferred, including any information that is
linked or linkable to that individual. Recipients may also ﬁnd the DHS Privacy
Impact Assessments: Privacy Guidance and Privacy Template as useful resources
respectively.
Article 8 Civil Rights Act of 1964 – Title VI
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, Pub. L. No. 88-352 (codiﬁed as amended at 42 U.S.C. § 2000d et seq.),
which provides that no person in the United States will, on the grounds of race,
color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the beneﬁts of,
or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal
ﬁnancial assistance. DHS implementing regulations for the Act are found at 6 C.F.R.
Part 21. Recipients of an award from the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) must also comply with FEMA’s implementing regulations at 44 C.F.R. Part
7.
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 5 of 15
Article 9 Civil Rights Act of 1968
Recipients must comply with Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, Pub. L. No.
90-284 (codiﬁed as amended at 42 U.S.C. § 3601 et seq.) which prohibits
recipients from discriminating in the sale, rental, ﬁnancing, and advertising of
dwellings, or in the provision of services in connection. therewith, on the basis of
race, color, national origin, religion, disability, familial status, and sex, as
implemented by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development at 24
C.F.R. Part 100. The prohibition on disability discrimination includes the
requirement that new multifamily housing with four or more dwelling units— i.e., the
public and common use areas and individual apartment units (all units in buildings
with elevators and ground-ﬂoor units in buildings without elevators)—be designed
and constructed with certain accessible features. (See 24 C.F.R. Part 100, Subpart
D.)
Article 10 Copyright
Recipients must aﬃx the applicable copyright notices of 17 U.S.C. §§ 401 or 402 to
any work ﬁrst produced under federal awards and also include an
acknowledgement that the work was produced under a federal award (including the
federal award number and federal awarding agency). As detailed in 2 C.F.R. §
200.315, a federal awarding agency reserves a royalty-free, nonexclusive, and
irrevocable right to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the work for federal
purposes and to authorize others to do so.
Article 11 Debarment and Suspension
Recipients must comply with the non-procurement debarment and suspension
regulations implementing Executive Orders (E.O.) 12549 and 12689 set forth at 2
C.F.R. Part 180 as implemented by DHS at 2 C.F.R. Part 3000. These regulations
prohibit recipients from entering into covered transactions (such as subawards and
contracts) with certain parties that are debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded
from or ineligible for participation in federal assistance programs or activities.
Article 12 Drug-Free Workplace Regulations
Recipients must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in Subpart B (or
Subpart C, if the recipient is an individual) of 2 C.F.R. Part 3001, which adopts the
Government- wide implementation (2 C.F.R. Part 182) of the Drug-Free Workplace
Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. §§ 8101-8106).
Article 13 Duplicative Costs
Recipients are prohibited from charging any cost to this federal award that will be
included as a cost or used to meet cost sharing or matching requirements of any
other federal award in either the current or a prior budget period. (See 2 C.F.R. §
200.403(f)). However, recipients may shift costs that are allowable under two or
more federal awards where otherwise permitted by federal statutes, regulations, or
the federal ﬁnancial assistance award terms and conditions.
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 6 of 15
Article 14 Education Amendments of 1972 (Equal Opportunity in Education Act) –
Title IX
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Title IX of the Education
Amendments of 1972, Pub. L. No. 92-318 (codiﬁed as amended at 20 U.S.C. §
1681 et seq.), which provide that no person in the United States will, on the basis of
sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the beneﬁts of, or be subjected to
discrimination under any educational program or activity receiving federal ﬁnancial
assistance. DHS implementing regulations are codiﬁed at 6 C.F.R. Part 17.
Recipients of an award from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
must also comply with FEMA’s implementing regulations at 44 C.F.R. Part 19.
Article 15 E.O. 14074 – Advancing Eﬀective, Accountable Policing and Criminal
Justice Practices to Enhance Public Trust and Public Safety
Recipient State, Tribal, local, or territorial law enforcement agencies must comply
with the requirements of section 12(c) of E.O. 14074. Recipient State, Tribal, local,
or territorial law enforcement agencies are also encouraged to adopt and enforce
policies consistent with E.O. 14074 to support safe and eﬀective policing.
Article 16 Energy Policy and Conservation Act
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the Energy Policy and
Conservation Act, Pub. L. No. 94-163 (1975) (codiﬁed as amended at 42 U.S.C. §
6201 et seq.), which contain policies relating to energy eﬃciency that are deﬁned in
the state energy conservation plan issued in compliance with this Act.
Article 17 False Claims Act and Program Fraud Civil Remedies
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C.
§§ 3729- 3733, which prohibit the submission of false or fraudulent claims for
payment to the Federal Government. (See 31 U.S.C. §§ 3801-3812, which details
the administrative remedies for false claims and statements made.)
Article 18 Federal Debt Status
All recipients are required to be non-delinquent in their repayment of any federal
debt. Examples of relevant debt include delinquent payroll and other taxes, audit
disallowances, and beneﬁt overpayments. (See OMB Circular A-129.)
Article 19 Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving
Recipients are encouraged to adopt and enforce policies that ban text messaging
while driving recipient-owned, recipient-rented, or privately owned vehicles when on
oﬃcial government business or when performing any work for or on behalf of the
Federal Government. Recipients are also encouraged to conduct the initiatives of
the type described in Section 3(a) of E.O. 13513.
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 7 of 15
Article 20 Fly America Act of 1974
Recipients must comply with Preference for U.S. Flag Air Carriers (a list of certiﬁed
air carriers can be found at: Certiﬁcated Air Carriers List | US Department of
Transportation, https://www.transportation.gov/policy/aviation-policy/certiﬁcated-
air-carriers-list)for international air transportation of people and property to the
extent that such service is available, in accordance with the International Air
Transportation Fair Competitive Practices Act of 1974, 49 U.S.C. § 40118, and the
interpretative guidelines issued by the Comptroller General of the United States in
the March 31, 1981, amendment to Comptroller General Decision B-138942.
Article 21 Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990
Recipients must ensure that all conference, meeting, convention, or training space
funded entirely or in part by federal award funds complies with the ﬁre prevention
and control guidelines of Section 6 of the Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990,
15 U.S.C. § 2225a.
Article 22 John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2019
Recipients, subrecipients, and their contractors and subcontractors are subject to
the prohibitions described in section 889 of the John S. McCain National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, Pub. L. No. 115-232 (2018) and 2 C.F.R. §§
200.216, 200.327, 200.471, and Appendix II to 2 C.F.R. Part 200. The statute – as
it applies to DHS recipients, subrecipients, and their contractors and subcontractors
– prohibits obligating or expending federal award funds on certain
telecommunications and video surveillance products and contracting with certain
entities for national security reasons.
Article 23 Limited English Proﬁciency (Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI)
Recipients must comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. §
2000d et seq.) prohibition against discrimination on the basis of national origin,
which requires that recipients of federal ﬁnancial assistance take reasonable steps
to provide meaningful access to persons with limited English proﬁciency (LEP) to
their programs and services. For additional assistance and information regarding
language access obligations, please refer to the DHS Recipient Guidance:
https://www.dhs.gov/guidance-published-help- department-supported-
organizations-provide-meaningful-access-people-limited and additional resources
on http://www.lep.gov.
Article 24 Lobbying Prohibitions
Recipients must comply with 31 U.S.C. § 1352 and 6 C.F.R. Part 9, which provide
that none of the funds provided under a federal award may be expended by the
recipient to pay any person to inﬂuence, or attempt to inﬂuence an oﬃcer or
employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an oﬃcer or employee of
Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any federal
action related to a federal award or contract, including any extension, continuation,
renewal, amendment, or modiﬁcation. Per 6 C.F.R. Part 9, recipients must ﬁle a
lobbying certiﬁcation form as described in Appendix A to 6 C.F.R. Part 9 or
available on Grants.gov as the Grants.gov Lobbying Form and ﬁle a lobbying
disclosure form as described in Appendix B to 6 C.F.R. Part 9 or available on
Grants.gov as the Disclosure of Lobbying Activities (SF-LLL).
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 8 of 15
Article 25 National Environmental Policy Act
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy
Act of 1969, Pub. L. No. 91-190 (1970) (codiﬁed as amended at 42 U.S.C. § 4321
et seq.) (NEPA) and the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) Regulations for
Implementing the Procedural Provisions of NEPA, which require recipients to use
all practicable means within their authority, and consistent with other essential
considerations of national policy, to create and maintain conditions under which
people and nature can exist in productive harmony and fulﬁll the social, economic,
and other needs of present and future generations of Americans.
Article 26 Nondiscrimination in Matters Pertaining to Faith-Based Organizations
It is DHS policy to ensure the equal treatment of faith-based organizations in social
service programs administered or supported by DHS or its component agencies,
enabling those organizations to participate in providing important social services to
beneﬁciaries. Recipients must comply with the equal treatment policies and
requirements contained in 6 C.F.R. Part 19 and other applicable statues,
regulations, and guidance governing the participations of faith- based organizations
in individual DHS programs.
Article 27 Non-Supplanting Requirement
Recipients of federal awards under programs that prohibit supplanting by law must
ensure that federal funds supplement but do not supplant non-federal funds that, in
the absence of such federal funds, would otherwise have been made available for
the same purpose.
Article 28 Notice of Funding Opportunity Requirements
All the instructions, guidance, limitations, scope of work, and other conditions set
forth in the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) for this federal award are
incorporated by reference. All recipients must comply with any such requirements
set forth in the NOFO. If a condition of the NOFO is inconsistent with these terms
and conditions and any such terms of the Award, the condition in the NOFO shall
be invalid to the extent of the inconsistency. The remainder of that condition and all
other conditions set forth in the NOFO shall remain in eﬀect.
Article 29 Patents and Intellectual Property Rights
Recipients are subject to the Bayh-Dole Act, 35 U.S.C. § 200 et seq. and applicable
regulations governing inventions and patents, including the regulations issued by
the Department of Commerce at 37 C.F.R. Part 401 (Rights to Inventions Made by
Nonproﬁt Organizations and Small Business Firms under Government Awards,
Contracts, and Cooperative Agreements) and the standard patent rights clause set
forth at 37 C.F.R. § 401.14.
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 9 of 15
Article 30 Procurement of Recovered Materials
States, political subdivisions of states, and their contractors must comply with
Section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, Pub. L. No. 89-272 (1965) (codiﬁed
as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act at 42 U.S.C. § 6962)
and 2 C.F.R. § 200.323. The requirements of Section 6002 include procuring only
items designated in guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at 40
C.F.R. Part 247 that contain the highest percentage of recovered materials
practicable, consistent with maintaining a satisfactory level of competition.
Article 31 Rehabilitation Act of 1973
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973, Pub. L. No. 93-112 (codiﬁed as amended at 29 U.S.C. § 794), which
provides that no otherwise qualiﬁed handicapped individuals in the United States
will, solely by reason of the handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied
the beneﬁts of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity
receiving federal ﬁnancial assistance.
Article 32 Reporting of Matters Related to Recipient Integrity and Performance
If the total value of any currently active grants, cooperative agreements, and
procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies exceeds $10,000,000 for
any period of time during the period of performance of the federal award, then the
recipient must comply with the requirements set forth in the government-wide
Award Term and Condition for Recipient Integrity and Performance Matters located
at 2 C.F.R. Part 200, Appendix XII, the full text of which is incorporated by
reference.
Article 33 Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation
For federal awards that equal or exceed $30,000, recipients are required to comply
with the requirements set forth in the government-wide award term on Reporting
Subawards and Executive Compensation set forth at 2 C.F.R. Part 170, Appendix
A, the full text of which is incorporated by reference.
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 10 of 15
Article 34 Required Use of American Iron, Steel, Manufactured Products, and
Construction Materials
Recipients of an award of Federal ﬁnancial assistance from a program for
infrastructure are hereby notiﬁed that none of the funds provided under this award
may be used for a project for infrastructure unless: (1) all iron and steel used in the
project are produced in the United States—this means all manufacturing
processes, from the initial melting stage through the application of coatings,
occurred in the United States; (2) all manufactured products used in the project are
produced in the United States—this means the manufactured product was
manufactured in the United States; and the cost of the components of the
manufactured product that are mined, produced, or manufactured in the United
States is greater than 55 percent of the total cost of all components of the
manufactured product, unless another standard for determining the minimum
amount of domestic content of the manufactured product has been established
under applicable law or regulation; and (3) all construction materials are
manufactured in the United States—this means that all manufacturing processes
for the construction material occurred in the United States. The Buy America
preference only applies to articles, materials, and supplies that are consumed in,
incorporated into, or aﬃxed to an infrastructure project. As such, it does not apply to
tools, equipment, and supplies, such as temporary scaﬀolding, brought to the
construction site and removed at or before the completion of the infrastructure
project. Nor does a Buy America preference apply to equipment and furnishings,
such as movable chairs, desks, and portable computer equipment, that are used at
or within the ﬁnished infrastructure project but are not an integral part of the
structure or permanently aﬃxed to the infrastructure project. Waivers When
necessary, recipients may apply for, and the agency may grant, a waiver from these
requirements. The agency should notify the recipient for information on the process
for requesting a waiver from these requirements. (a) When the Federal agency has
determined that one of the following exceptions applies, the awarding oﬃcial may
waive the application of the domestic content procurement preference in any case
in which the agency determines that: (1) applying the domestic content procurement
preference would be inconsistent with the public interest; (2) the types of iron, steel,
manufactured products, or construction materials are not produced in the United
States in suﬃcient and reasonably available quantities or of a satisfactory quality; or
(3) the inclusion of iron, steel, manufactured products, or construction materials
produced in the United States will increase the cost of the overall project by more
than 25 percent. A request to waive the application of the domestic content
procurement preference must be in writing. The agency will provide instructions on
the format, contents, and supporting materials required for any waiver request.
Waiver requests are subject to public comment periods of no less than 15 days and
must be reviewed by the Made in America Oﬃce. There may be instances where an
award qualiﬁes, in whole or in part, for an existing waiver described at “Buy
America” Preference in FEMA Financial Assistance Programs for Infrastructure |
FEMA.gov. Deﬁnitions The deﬁnitions applicable to this term are set forth at 2
C.F.R. § 184.3, the full text of which is incorporated by reference.
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 11 of 15
Article 35 SAFECOM
Recipients receiving federal ﬁnancial assistance awards made under programs that
provide emergency communication equipment and its related activities must comply
with the SAFECOM Guidance for Emergency Communication Grants, including
provisions on technical standards that ensure and enhance interoperable
communications. The SAFECOM Guidance is updated annually and can be found
at Funding and Sustainment | CISA.
Article 36 Terrorist Financing
Recipients must comply with E.O. 13224 and applicable statutory prohibitions on
transactions with, and the provisions of resources and support to, individuals and
organizations associated with terrorism. Recipients are legally responsible for
ensuring compliance with the E.O. and laws.
Article 37 Traﬃcking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (TVPA)
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the government-wide ﬁnancial
assistance award term which implements Traﬃcking Victims Protection Act of
2000, Pub. L. No. 106-386, § 106 (codiﬁed as amended at 22 U.S.C. § 7104). The
award term is located at 2 C.F.R. § 175.15, the full text of which is incorporated by
reference.
Article 38 Universal Identiﬁer and System of Award Management
Recipients are required to comply with the requirements set forth in the
government-wide ﬁnancial assistance award term regarding the System for Award
Management and Universal Identiﬁer Requirements located at 2 C.F.R. Part 25,
Appendix A, the full text of which is incorporated reference.
Article 39 USA PATRIOT Act of 2001
Recipients must comply with requirements of Section 817 of the Uniting and
Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and
Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA PATRIOT Act), which amends 18 U.S.C. §§
175–175c.
Article 40 Use of DHS Seal, Logo and Flags
Recipients must obtain written permission from DHS prior to using the DHS seals,
logos, crests, or reproductions of ﬂags, or likenesses of DHS agency oﬃcials. This
includes use of DHS component (e.g., FEMA, CISA, etc.) seals, logos, crests, or
reproductions of ﬂags, or likenesses of component oﬃcials.
Article 41 Whistleblower Protection Act
Recipients must comply with the statutory requirements for whistleblower
protections at 10 U.S.C § 470141 U.S.C. § 4712.
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 12 of 15
Article 42 Environmental Planning and Historic Preservation (EHP) Review
DHS/FEMA funded activities that may require an Environmental Planning and
Historic Preservation (EHP) review are subject to the FEMA EHP review process.
This review does not address all federal, state, and local requirements. Acceptance
of federal funding requires the recipient to comply with all federal, state and local
laws. DHS/FEMA is required to consider the potential impacts to natural and
cultural resources of all projects funded by DHS/FEMA grant funds, through its EHP
review process, as mandated by: the National Environmental Policy Act; National
Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended; National Flood Insurance Program
regulations; and any other applicable laws and executive orders. General guidance
for FEMA’s EHP process is available on the DHS/FEMA Website at:
https://www.fema.gov/grants/guidance-tools/environmental-historic. Speciﬁc
applicant guidance on how to submit information for EHP review depends on the
individual grant program and applicants should contact their grant Program Oﬃcer
to be put into contact with EHP staﬀ responsible for assisting their speciﬁc grant
program. The EHP review process must be completed before funds are released to
carry out the proposed project; otherwise, DHS/FEMA may not be able to fund the
project due to noncompliance with EHP laws, executive orders, regulations, and
policies. If ground disturbing activities occur during construction, applicant will
monitor ground disturbance, and if any potential archaeological resources are
discovered the applicant will immediately cease work in that area and notify the
pass-through entity, if applicable, and DHS/FEMA.
Article 43 Applicability of DHS Standard Terms and Conditions to Tribes
The DHS Standard Terms and Conditions are a restatement of general
requirements imposed upon recipients and ﬂow down to sub-recipients as a matter
of law, regulation, or executive order. If the requirement does not apply to Indian
tribes or there is a federal law or regulation exempting its application to Indian
tribes, then the acceptance by Tribes of, or acquiescence to, DHS Standard Terms
and Conditions does not change or alter its inapplicability to an Indian tribe. The
execution of grant documents is not intended to change, alter, amend, or impose
additional liability or responsibility upon the Tribe where it does not already exist.
Article 44 Acceptance of Post Award Changes
In the event FEMA determines that an error in the award package has been made,
or if an administrative change must be made to the award package, recipients will
be notiﬁed of the change in writing. Once the notiﬁcation has been made, any
subsequent requests for funds will indicate recipient acceptance of the changes to
the award. Please call FEMA Grant Management Operations at (866) 927-5646 or
via e-mail to: ASK-GMD@fema.dhs.gov if you have any questions.
Article 45 Disposition of Equipment Acquired Under the Federal Award
For purposes of original or replacement equipment acquired under this award by a
non-state recipient or non-state sub-recipients, when that equipment is no longer
needed for the original project or program or for other activities currently or
previously supported by a federal awarding agency, you must request instructions
from FEMA to make proper disposition of the equipment pursuant to 2 C.F.R.
section 200.313. State recipients and state sub-recipients must follow the
disposition requirements in accordance with state laws and procedures.
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 13 of 15
Article 46 Prior Approval for Modiﬁcation of Approved Budget
Before making any change to the FEMA approved budget for this award, you must
request prior written approval from FEMA where required by 2 C.F.R. section
200.308. For purposes of non-construction projects, FEMA is utilizing its discretion
to impose an additional restriction under 2 C.F.R. section 200.308(f) regarding the
transfer of funds among direct cost categories, programs, functions, or activities.
Therefore, for awards with an approved budget where the federal share is greater
than the simpliﬁed acquisition threshold (currently $250,000), you may not transfer
funds among direct cost categories, programs, functions, or activities without prior
written approval from FEMA where the cumulative amount of such transfers
exceeds or is expected to exceed ten percent (10%) of the total budget FEMA last
approved. For purposes of awards that support both construction and non-
construction work, FEMA is utilizing its discretion under 2 C.F.R. section 200.308(h)
(5) to require the recipient to obtain prior written approval from FEMA before
making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work. You must
report any deviations from your FEMA approved budget in the ﬁrst Federal
Financial Report (SF-425) you submit following any budget deviation, regardless of
whether the budget deviation requires prior written approval.
Article 47 Indirect Cost Rate
2 C.F.R. section 200.211(b)(15) requires the terms of the award to include the
indirect cost rate for the federal award. If applicable, the indirect cost rate for this
award is stated in the budget documents or other materials approved by FEMA and
included in the award ﬁle.
Article 48 Pass-Through to Subrecipients
Awards made to the State Authorized Agency (SAA) for HHPD carry additional
pass-through requirements. Pass- through is deﬁned as an obligation on the part of
the SAA to make funds available to eligible subrecipients. All pass-through entities
must comply with Section 2 C.F.R. 200.332 Requirements for pass-through entities.
Article 49 Mitigation Plan Extraordinary Circumstances
A Hold Payment will apply for the award that has a hazard mitigation plan that does
not include all dam risks. This is a corrective action to the original term of the award,
which allowed up to 12 months after the date FEMA approved the subrecipients
workplan to meet the local mitigation plan requirement as described in the Notice of
Funding Opportunity (NOFO). If a recipient fails to comply with the terms and
conditions of a federal award, FEMA may terminate the award in whole or in part. If
the noncompliance can be corrected, FEMA may ﬁrst attempt to direct the recipient
to correct the noncompliance. In the event the noncompliance is not able to be
corrected by imposing additional conditions or the recipient or subrecipient refuses
to correct the matter, FEMA might take other remedies allowed under 2 C.F.R. §
200.339. These remedies include actions to disallow costs, recover funds, wholly or
partly suspend, or terminate the award, initiate suspension, and debarment
proceedings, withhold further federal awards, or take other remedies that may be
legally available. For further information on termination due to noncompliance, see
the section on Termination Provisions in the NOFO.
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 14 of 15
Article 50 Revision of Budget and Scope of Work Package (formerly called
“amendment /workplan”)
Within 90 days of the notice of award, the State Authorized Agency must submit a
revision or Scope of Work package to FEMA for approval that describes the budget
and project scope for all work proposed, including identiﬁcation of all subrecipients,
in accordance with 2 C.F.R. § 200.308. The grant award is based on the recipient’s
Program Work Plan (Scope of Work package) and applicant eligibility for an
allocation under this program and does not convey approval of project scope of
work for subrecipients. Budget amounts over each recipient's allocation cannot be
funded, and budget amounts short of the allocation may require FEMA recovering
the diﬀerence between the allocation and budget amount.
Article 51 Eligible High Hazard Potential Dam Documentation
The State Authorized Agency (SAA) must submit a list of all eligible high hazard
potential dams in their state with the application. The SAA must submit oﬃcial
assurance statement (signed by the State Dam Safety Oﬃcer or Governor's
Authorized Representative) that all dams included on the list of eligible high hazard
potential dams are regulated by the state dam safety program and meet the HHPD
criteria for eligible high hazard potential dams (Source: 33 USC-467(4)(A)).
Article 52 Performance Goal
The objective of the HHPD grant is to provide ﬁnancial assistance for repair,
removal, or rehabilitation of eligible high hazard potential dams. Based on the
review of your application, FEMA will verify the claimed costs are consistent with
the stated program objective. By accepting this award, you certify that the total
Federal award amount comports to the to the total of all allowable costs incurred by
the recipient during this ﬁscal year, in keeping with the program’s objective. FEMA
will further assess the recipient’s performance against the program objectives
during the quarterly reporting cycles and the award closeout process outlined in the
Performance Measures section of the HHPD grant Notice of Funding Opportunity.
Article 53 Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act Funded Projects
Recipients of awards using Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act funding are
required to report during quarterly reporting cycles the project award details and
description, subaward project level location data, and the project status and
progress toward achieving dam risk reduction project outcomes.
Attachment B - Agreement Articles
Attachment B to the Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security 
and City of Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities 
Page 15 of 15

