IAPPROVED as to form onIy;~
Davfd Hopkfason at 11 lSam, ~eb 04 2026 J
City Contract No.
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
for
Repurposing of the Historic Pump House
This Professional Services Agreement (“Agreement”) is made and entered into by and
between the City of Cheyenne, located at 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001
(“City”), and TDS1, located at 1610 Pioneer Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, 82001 (“Consultant”).
This Agreement shall become effective upon the date of the last signature affixed hereto.
RECITALS
In consideration of the mutual covenants and obligations herein expressed, it is agreed by
and between the parties as follows:
1. SCOPE OF WORK
The Consultant agrees to provide services as described for the above-mentioned project, in
accordance with the Scope of Work attached hereto as Exhibit A, incorporated by reference
and expressly made a part hereof.
2. TIME OF PERFORMANCE
The work included in this Scope of Work will be completed by September 30th, 2027, as
stated in Exhibit A.
3. COMPENSATION
In consideration ofthe services to be performed pursuant to this Agreement, the Consultant
will bill the City and the City agrees to pay Consultant a not to exceed amount of
One Hundred Ninety-Eight Thousand Nine Hundred and Three Dollars ($198,903) as
stated in Exhibit A.
4. CONSULTANT RESPONSIBILITY
In providing services under this Agreement, the Consultant shall perform in a manner
consistent with that degree of care and skill ordinarily exercised by members of the same
profession currently practicing under similar circumstances. Upon notice to the Consultant,
the Consultant will, without additional compensation, correct those services not meeting
such a standard.
5. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS
The Parties agree that they will perform their obligations as provided in this Agreement in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances.
Page 1 of 7
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE
In compliance with the Drug-Free Workplace Act ofNovember 1988, the City ofCheyenne
has established an Alcohol and Controlled Substance Policy that pertains to alcohol and
drug usage by City Employees. All architects, engineers, and other consultants under
contract with City of Cheyenne, and their employees and sub-consultants, are required to
comply with the provisions ofthe City’s Alcohol and Controlled Substance Policy for drug
and or alcohol usage on City property or other sites occupied by the Consultant while
performing the duties and responsibilities of the Agreement. It is the responsibility of the
Consultant to familiarize themselves with the requirements of this policy and to inform all
their employees and sub-consultants of the requirements and ensure their compliance. If
the Consultant, their employees or sub-consultants are found in violation of this policy, the
Agreement may be terminated.
INDEMNIFICATION/HOLD HARMLESS
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Consultant shall indemnify the City of Cheyenne,
its officers, directors, partners, employees, and representatives, from and against losses,
damages, and judgments arising from claims by third parties, including reasonable
attorneys’ fees and expenses recoverable under applicable law, but only to the extent they
are found to be caused by a negligent act, error, or omission of Consultant or Consultant’s
officers, directors, members, partners, agents, employees, or subconsultants in the
performance of services under this Agreement.
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
The Consultant must provide proof of the following insurance coverages:
Commercial General Liability Insurance
For claims arising out of bodily injury, illness, or death, or from damage to or destruction
of property of others, including loss or use thereof, with minimum limits of $1,000,000 per
occurrence, $2,000,000 aggregate for the entire term of the Agreement.
Workers’ Compensation
Workers’ compensation coverage shall be in effect for the entire term of the Agreement,
as required by Wyoming law, for all employees or agents providing services under this
Agreement. Consultant shall provide the City with proof of workers’ compensation or
employer’s liability insurance coverage.
Professional Liability Insurance
The Consultant shall provide proof of professional liability insurance or errors and
omissions liability insurance in an amount not less than $500,000 to protect the City from
any and all claims arising from the Consultant’s negligence in the performance of duties
under this Agreement. The City prefers that this liability insurance coverage be provided
pursuant to an “occurrence” policy.
If this coverage is provided pursuant to a “claims made” policy:
Page 2 of 7
a. Consultant shall, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement,
provide the City with a certificate of insurance demonstrating that such
coverage is or shall be in effect at the time the Consultant begins the
provision of services under this Agreement; and
b. In the event the Consultant’s services extend into a future policy period, the
Consultant shall, prior to the policy expiration date, provide the City with a
new certificate of insurance demonstrating that such coverage is or shall be
in effect during all periods of time that Consultant will provide services
under this Agreement; and
c. Consultant shall maintain said “claims made” coverage for a period of five
(5) years following the last date that Consultant has provided services under
this Agreement; and
d. In the event the Consultant or the insurer terminates “claims made”
coverage prior to the expiration ofthe periods provided in subparagraphs a.,
b., or c. of this paragraph, the Consultant shall provide to the City advance
written notification ofthe termination of said coverage and shall provide the
City with an endorsement for an extended reporting period (“tail coverage”)
which shall be in effect for a period of time not less than five (5) years
following the last date that Consultant has provided services under this
Agreement.
Additional Insurance Information
The Consultant shall name the City of Cheyenne as an Additional Insured by
endorsement on its insurance policies and shall provide the City with a copy of the
endorsements. This requirement does not apply to workers’ compensation and professional
liability insurance policies.
Consultant shall provide the City with certificates of insurance acknowledging the above-
stated coverages prior to beginning any work under this Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that these policies are primary and not contributory. All policies
required under this Agreement shall be in effect for the duration of the Agreement. It shall
be an affirmative obligation upon Consultant to immediately notify in writing the city risk
manager, city clerk, and city attorney of any fact, circumstance, or occurrence that has
resulted in or may result in the cancellation of~ or substantive change to any insurance
coverage required by this Agreement, and failure to do so shall be construed to be a breach
of this Agreement.
If requested by the City, the Consultant shall provide the City with copies of insurance
policies and or policy endorsements listing the City of Cheyenne as an additional insured.
The City’s failure to request or review such policies, endorsements, or certificates shall not
affect the City’s rights or Consultant’s obligation hereunder.
Page 3 of 7
Any insurance company providing coverage under this Agreement shall have a minimum
A. M. Best rating of A- (excellent).
9. MINORITY AND DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES (49 C.F.R. Part 26)
All parties to this Agreement assure that no person will be excluded from participation in,
denied the benefits of, or otherwise discriminated against, in connection with the award
and performance of this Agreement on the grounds of age, race, color, disability, national
origin, or sex.
10. MONTHLY REPORT
With every monthly billing, Consultant shall provide the City Representative with a written
statement of the status of the work with respect to the Scope of Work, time sheets, and
work schedule. Failure to provide the required monthly report will delay processing of any
payment request until the report is submitted.
11. INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT
The Consultant shall function as an independent consultant for the purposes of this
Agreement. The Consultant shall assume sole responsibility for any debts or liabilities that
may be incurred by the Consultant in fulfilling the terms ofthis Agreement. Nothing in this
Agreement shall be interpreted as authorizing the Consultant or its agents or employees to
act as an agent or representative of or on behalf of the City or to incur any obligation of
any kind on the behalf of the City.
12. TAXES
The Consultant agrees to pay all valid taxes, excises, license fees, permit fees, bills, debts,
and obligations incurred by and in connection with its operations under this Agreement.
13. DEFAULT
Each and every term and condition in this Agreement shall be deemed to be a material
element of the Agreement. In the event either party should fail or refuse to perform
according to the terms of this Agreement, such party may be declared in default.
14. REMEDIES
In the event a party has been declared in default, such defaulting party shall be allowed a
period of fifteen (15) days within which to cure the default. In the event the default remains
uncorrected, the non-defaulting party declaring default may elect to:
a. Terminate the Agreement and seek damages, which damages shall not
exceed the contract amount; or
b. Treat the Agreement as continuing and require specific performance.
15. TERM AND TERMINATION
The term of this Agreement shall be from date of execution to September 30th, 2027. The
parties may by mutual written agreement renew or extend this Agreement.
Page 4 of 7
The City may, without cause, and upon thirty (30) days’ written notice to the Consultant,
terminate this Agreement in whole or in part at any time, for the City’s convenience. Upon
receipt of such notice, the Consultant shall:
a. Discontinue all services affected; and
b. Deliver to the City within five (5) days all data, drawings, specifications,
reports, estimates, summaries, and such other information and materials as
may have been accumulated by the Consultant in performing this
Agreement, whether completed or in process.
c. In the event oftermination for convenience, the City will pay the Consultant
for accepted work done and expenses incurred to the date of termination.
Such acceptance shall not be unreasonably withheld.
16. ADDITIONAL REMEDIES
In the event the Consultant fails to strictly perform in accordance with this Agreement, the
City may elect to correct the deficiencies and charge the Consultant. In the event of default
of any of the conditions by either party which shall require the party not in default to
commence legal or equitable action against the defaulting party each party shall bear its
own costs and expenses, including without limitation, attorney’s fees.
17. GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND VENUE
The construction, interpretation, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by
the laws of the State of Wyoming. The courts of the State of Wyoming shall have
jurisdiction over any action arising out of this Agreement and over the parties, and the
venue shall be the First Judicial District, Laramie County, Wyoming.
18. GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY
The City of Cheyenne, along with its officials and employees, does not waive its
governmental immunity by entering into this Agreement, except to the extent necessary for
the parties to pursue a contract action to clarify or enforce the written terms of the
Agreement. Furthermore, the City specifically retains all immunities and defenses
available to it as a sovereign or governmental entity pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 1-39-101, et
seq., and all other relevant state and federal law. Designations of venue, choice of law,
enforcement actions, and similar provisions should not be constructed as a waiver of
governmental immunity. The parties agree that any ambiguity in this Agreement shall not
be strictly construed, either against or for either party, except that any ambiguity as to
governmental or sovereign immunity shall be construed in favor of governmental
immunity.
19. MONITORING ACTIVITIES
The City shall have the right to monitor all activities related to this Agreement that are
performed by the Consultant or its sub-consultants. This shall include, but not be limited
to, the right to make site inspections at any time and with reasonable notice; to bring experts
and consultants on site to examine or evaluate completed work or work in progress; to
examine the books, ledgers, documents, papers, and records pertinent to this Agreement;
Page 5 of 7
and to observe personnel in every phase of performance of the related work.
20. OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS AND WORK PRODUCT
All deliverables by the Consultant, all work product of the Consultant, all notes,
calculations, memoranda, or any other documentation generated by the Consultant
pursuant to the scope of this Agreement, shall be the property of the City of Cheyenne and
shall be provided to the City of Cheyenne immediately upon request.
21. NON-DISCRIMINATION
The Consultant shall comply with the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Wyoming Fair
Employment Practices Act (Wyo. Stat. § 27-9-105, et seq.), the Americans With
Disabilities Act (ADA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 12101, et seq., and the Age
Discrimination Act of 1975 and any properly promulgated rules and regulations thereto,
and shall not discriminate against any individual on the grounds of age, sex, creed, color,
race, religion, national origin, ancestry, pregnancy or qualifying disability in connection
with the performance under this Agreement.
22. FORCE MAJEURE.
The performance of the Agreement by either party shall be subject to force majeure
including, but not limited to, acts of God, fire, flood, natural disaster, war or threat of war,
acts or threats ofterrorism, civil disorder, unauthorized strikes, governmental regulation or
advisory, recognized health threats as determined by the World Health Organization, the
Centers for Disease Control, or local government authority or health agencies (including,
but not limited to, the health threats of COVID-19, H1N1, or similar infectious diseases),
curtailment of transportation facilities, or other similar occurrence beyond the control of
the parties, where any of those factors, circumstances, situations, or conditions or similar
ones prevent, dissuade, or unreasonably delay the performance required by this Agreement.
The Agreement may be cancelled by either party, without liability, damages, fees, or
penalty, and any unused deposits or amounts paid shall be refunded, for any one or more
of the above reasons, by written notice to the other party.
23. PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION
The Consultant shall endorse, as required by law, plans and reports prepared under this
Agreement, and shall affix thereto his or her seal of professional registration, showing that
he or she is licensed to practice in the State of Wyoming, if necessary.
24. ENTIRETY OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement consisting of seven (7) pages, and Exhibit A consisting of seven (7) pages,
contain the entire understanding of the parties. There are no other terms or conditions,
written or oral, concerning or controlling this matter.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties to this Agreement, through their duly
authorized representatives, have executed this Agreement on the days and dates set out
below and certify that they have read, understood, and knowingly and voluntarily agreed
Page 6 of 7
to the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement. This Agreement may be executed in multiple
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall
constitute one and the same instrument.
City of Cheyenne
By:
(SEAL) Patrick Collins, Mayor
Attest:
Date:
Kylie Soden, City Clerk
Consultant
By:
Print Name:
Date:
Page 7 of 7
Exhibit A
Proposal for Professional Services for
CITY OF CHEYENNE
REPURPOSING OF THE HISTORIC PUMPHOUSE
I Cheyenne, Wyoming
January 14, 2026
City of Cheyenne
Community Recreation and Events Department
2101 O’NeiI Avenue
Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001
ATTN: Jason Sanchez — Director, Community Recreation & Events
RE: Proposal for Professional Design Services for City of Cheyenne
Repurposing of the Historic Pumphouse
Jason:
Thank you again for contacting our firm regarding the proposed project to prepare a design solution of
the repurposing of the historic Pumphouse. We are honored to have the opportunity to work with you
and your department and to be part of the Team to preserve this important historic structure.
Based on the fact that the proposed Police Department storage building will be a separate free
standing structure, we recommend that it be considered a separate project. We have not included it in
the scope covered by this proposal.
Following is a proposal for our services. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call me.
Thank you again
Randy ayers, AlA, LEED APB0~
Randy~tdsi.us
1610 Pioneer Avenue Cheyenne, Wyom~ng 82001 T) 307.775.9970 www.td&.us
Proposal for Professional Services for
Cheyenne Pumphouse Repurposing
2026.01.14
Page 2 of 7
SCOPE OF SERVICES
~ The general description of the Scope of Services for this project is as follows:
o Architectural services for the design and construction of renovating and remodeling of the
existing Cheyenne Pumphouse for the purpose of housing the City’s Clean & Safe
Department offices and equipment storage. The anticipated renovation will include
construction of restrooms in the north end of the building, with one office and a break room
constructed elsewhere in the building. The remainder of the existing structure will remain
open for vehicle and equipment storage.
o The metal building addition at the northeast corner of the building and the second floor
addition over the north end of the building will be removed to facilitate reconstruction of that
roof area.
o The project will also include investigation as to the viability of maintaining the existing metal
building addition on the east side of the Puniphouse. The metal building addition would
remain and would be renovated with new insulation, new metal siding and roofing and
interior metal liner panels. The purpose of the renovated metal building space would be to
provide additional equipment and vehicle storage space for the Clean & Safe program.
o The scope of work anticipates reuse of existing design arid documents previously prepared
for the proposed Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce offices at the Pumphouse. The scope of
this project will include the restoration and stabilization of the existing stone structure but will
not include preparation of a Nomination to the National Register of Historic Places. The
scope includes raising the existing floor in the Pumphouse as previously proposed. The floor
in the metal building addition would likely remain at its existing elevation, and there would be
a transition between the raised floor in the Stone building and the lower floor level in the
metal building addition. The scope of the mechanical work will include new HVAC for the
restrooms, offices and break room, as well as minimal overhead radiant heating for the
vehicle storage areas in the existing stone building and in the metal building addition if it
remains. Code required exhaust for the areas where vehicles are operating under their own
power will be included. Installation of a fire sprinkler system will be investigated.
~l’~ Estimated Project Budget:
o Design: Unknown
o Construction: $2,660,576
o Overall Budget: $3,098,830
-~ Project Delivery Method: Design-Bid-Build
~ Estimated Construction Duration: 365 days maximum
4~ More specifically the anticipated Scope of Services includes:
o Design Phase:
• Site Visits to Document Existing Conditions,
• Preparation of Design Documents
• Review (Zoom or MSTeams) Meeting(s) with Owner
o Bidding and Negotiation services
o Construction Ad ministration services
Owner’s Project Manager: Jason Sanchez — Director, Community Recreation & Events
TDSI 1610 Pioneer Avenue Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970 www.tdsi.us
Proposal for Professional Services for
Cheyenne Pumphouse Repurposing
2026.01.14
Page 3 of 7
LIST OF ANTICIPATED STAFF
~ The primary TDSi staff member(s) proposed for this project are as follows:
• Randy Byers, ALA, LEED AP BD+C Architect, TDSI Principal
• Stephanie Lowe, Associate AlA Historic Preservation Specialist
‘~. The following TDSI personnel may also be involved with this project:
• Clint Taylor, AlA, PE, LEED AP BD+C Architect, TDSi Associate
• Will Byers, Associate AlA Intern Architect, TDSi Associate
FORM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN OWNER AND ARCHITECT
~ The form of agreement between the Owner and Architect shall be:
• City of Cheyenne Professional Service Agreement
CONSULTANTS
CIVIL T H 2 2 N A Darci Hendon, PE, Principal
ENGINEER Theena Engineering
t N 6 I N E N I N 6 Cheyenne, Wyoming
STRUCTURAL ~. ~/MARTIN Jera Likely, PE, Senior Engineer
ENGINEER ‘ Martin/Martin WyomingCheyenne, Wyoming
~— — Justin Montgomery, PE,MECHANICAL II~ — Principal
ENGINEER —DESIGNPOINT DesignPoint Engineering
ENCINCC~,~G Cheyenne,Wyoming
ELECTRICAL ~‘ust5~g~ Mike Gust, PE, Principalrneenng... Gust EngineeringENGINEER
ELECTRICAL CONSULTING FIRM Cheyenne, Wyoming
If during the course of the project, the services of additional outside consultants are deemed
necessary, are requested by the Owner or are required by the authorities having jurisdiction
over the Project, such services will be considered a Reimbursable Expense. We will coordinate
with the Owner to add consultants to our team that are mutually agreeable to both the Owner
and our firm.
SCHEDULE
~. TDSi Proposal January 14, 2026
~ Execute Amendment to Owner/Consultant Agreement January 2026
~4’~ Design February 2026 — July 2026
~ Bidding I Negotiation August 2026 — September 2026
4~ Construction September 2026 — September 2027
TDS1 1610 Pioneer Avenue Cheyenne, Wyorring 82001 1)307.775.9970 www.tdsi.us
Proposal for Professional Services for
Cheyenne Pumphouse Repurposing
2026.01.14
Page 4 of 7
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES FEE
‘.k For this project we propose to provide the Architectural services described herein, for the
Stipulated Sum fee of:
• Basic Services
• Design Phases $132,965.00
• Bidding! Negotiation $9,231.00
• Construction Administration $56707.00
• TOTAL FEE $198,903.00
plus Reimbursable Expenses.
TDSi RATE SCHEDULE
HOURLY RATES
~ TDSI Hourly Rates are as follows:
Staff Member Rate Per Hour
o Randy Byers, AlA, LEED APBD~ — TDSi Principal, Archtect $ 215
o Clint Taylor, AlA, PE, LEED AP~°~ - TDSi Associate Principal, Architect $ 165
o Architect $ 155
o Will Byers, AlA Associate - TDSI Associate, Project Manager/Intern Architect $ 155
o Stephanie Lowe, Intern Architect/Historic Preservation Specialist $ 125
o Design Technology Specialist $ 115
Legal testimony will be invoiced at 2 times the above noted hourly rate;
Research and consultation as an Expert Witness, and time giving
depositions will be billed at 1.5 times the above noted hourly rate.
CONSULTANT SERVICES
~ Consultant fees and reimbursable expenses will be billed at cost plus 15% markup.
REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES
~ Expenses incurred in connection with the project will be billed at actual cost plus a 15% markup.
‘~ Examples of such expenses are:
o out of town travel and subsistence expenses;
o reproduction costs for documents for other than the Architect’s use or record;
o postage and shipping charges.
TDSi 1610 Pioneer Avenue Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970 www.tdsi.us
Proposal for Professional Services for
Cheyenne Pumphouse Repurposing
2026.01.14
Page 5 of 7
~ Mileage is billed at the current IRS rate plus a 15% markup.
Hourly Rates and Reimbursable Expenses Rates are subject to review and change on a
periodic basis, or as circumstances require.
INITIAL PAYMENT RETAINER
~ An Initial Payment Retainer will not be required for this project.
BILLING SCHEDULE
~ E-lnvoice Format -All invoices will be emailed to the Client, with an option for the Client to pay
online.
METHOD OF DISTRIBUTION OF BID DOCUMENTS
~ Bid documents shall be distributed via a digital plan room, City of Cheyenne OpenGov.com
Procurement portal, QuestCDN.com, or equal.
ADDITIONAL SERVICES
~ Additional Services will be invoiced at the Hourly Rates current at the time the services are
provided. If the professional services covered by this proposal have not been completed within
the stated duration noted, through no fault of the Architect, additional services shall apply.
Architect shall give written notice to the owner if additional services are anticipated, prior to
additional services occurring.
PRODUCTS OF SERVICE
-~ In general, the anticipated Products of Service include the following:
• At Completion of Design Phase:
• One (1) set of Digital Drawings
• One (1) set of Specifications
TDS1 1610 Pioneer Avenue Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775,9970 www.tdsi.us
Proposa for Professional Services for
Cheyenne Purnphouse Repurposing
2026.01.14
Page6of7
SERVICES NOT INCLUDED
-~ The Architect’s fees do not include the following:
• Preparation of Planning & Zoning applications, maps, etc. including annexation, Site
Plan Review, etc.
• Surveying
• Hazardous Material (Asbestos, Lead, Mold, etc.) Testing I Inspection, Abatement Design
or Abatement
• Environmental Investigations (Phase I or Phase II)
• Geotechnical Investigations
• Acoustical Design
• Interior Acoustic Design
• Sound Isolation Design
• Mechanical Noise & Vibration Control
• Landscape or Irrigation System Design
• Consultant other than those specifically listed above
• Special Consultants
• Furniture Fixtures & Equipment Design or Documents
• Preparation of documents for Approvals required by Governmental Agencies
• Preparation of:
• Site plan Review
• Engineering Plan Review
• Drainage Worksheet and/or Study
• Transportation Worksheet and/or Study
• Administrative Adjustment
• Variance
• Zone Change
• Replat
• Conditional Use Permit
• Off-site utility updates
• Changes to existing utilities on site
• Preparation of Nation Register of Historic Places Nomination
• Post Construction Services
• Manual Distribution of Bid Documents
• Plan Review Fees
• Building Permit Fees
• Printing, except as specifically noted herein
• Construction Testing Fees
• Specialty Inspections
• Modifications to the documents or repair detailing that are the result of contractor quality
control deficiencies
• Preparation of Color Board
• Models
• Presentation or Meetings with Government Officials, Financial Institutions, etc. except as
noted above
• Utility water, sewer, or natural gas piping further than 5 feet outside the building
including landscape irrigation
• Ground source heat pump system design including loop field design
• Fire sprinkler design
TDSi 1610 Pioneer Avenue Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970 www.tdsi.us
Proposal for Professional Servces for
Cheyenne Pumphouse Repurposing
2026.01.14
Page 7of7
• Energy modeling
• Life cycle cost analysis of multiple mechanical systems
• LEED Documentation or Registration of Certification Fees
• Commissioning of the mechanical systems
• Ground Vibration Testing and Recommendations
• Testing and analysis of ground borne environmental vibrations
• Exterior Sound Isolation Design
• Detailed Analysis of Environmental Noise (CADNA Model)
• Security Design
• Professional Liability Coverage beyond limits noted below
• Preparation of design or documents for other free-standing buildings
The services noted above may be requested as Additional Services.
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FROM OWNER
~k Documents required to be provided by the Owner include the following:
• none anticipated
INSURANCE
-~ Professional Liability Insurance:
• TDSi currently carries a Professional Liability insurance policy provided by CNA through
Victor Insurance Managers Inc. I Continental Casualty Company. The policy is a “claims-
made” policy with a maximum limit of liability of $1,000,000 per claim, with an aggregate
limit of $2,000,000 per year. Our firm has never had a claim against our policy. A
Certificate of Insurance will be provided upon written request.
~ General Business Liability Insurance:
• TDSi carries a General Business Liability policy provided by AMCO Insurance Company
and Allied Insurance Company of America. A Certificate of Insurance that enumerates
the various coverage limits will be provided upon written request.
TERM OF PROPOSAL
~ This proposal will be valid for 30 days.
Respectfully:
Randy Byers, Al
TDS1 President
for the firm
TDSi 1610 Pioneer Avenue Cheyenne, V~ioming 82001 T) 307.775.9970 www.tdsi.us