PLANNING &  
DEVELOPMENT  
2101 O’Neil Avenue 
Cheyenne, WY 82001 
(307) 637-6282
cheyennecity.org
MEMO 
To: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
From: Seth Lloyd, AICP - Senior Planner 
Subject: PLTA-25-10 Amending UDC 5.7.3 and 1.4.4 regarding Accessory Dwelling Units  
Date: January 12, 2026 
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Background  
The item for consideration is a UDC Text Amendment. The substance of this amendment was initiated 
by Councilman Mark Moody, but the language was crafted by Staff and modified by the Planning 
Commission. This is approved by Ordinance.    
The proposed Governing Body review schedule is as follows: 
• Introduction and Referral 1/12/2026
• Public Services Committee 1/20/2026
• Second reading 1/26/2026 
• Public Services Committee 2/2/2026
• Third and final reading 2/9/2026 
Planning Commission Recommendation  
The Planning Commission heard this item at their January 5, 2026 meeting and voted 5-0 to 
recommend the Governing Body approve the proposed text amendment with the following change: 
• 1.4.4.a “Accessory Dwelling” changed to clarify the list of ADU options were examples, not an
exhaustive list.
Planning Commission’s proposed changes are reflected in the attached ordinance. 
The Planning Commission Staff report is attached and has not been changed (Except that areas 
changed by the Planning Commission have been noted in green to attempt to reduce confusion when 
comparing the Planning Commission Staff Report to the Ordinance).  
Public Comment 
As of the creation of this memo (January 7, 2026), Staff has received multiple comments 
from the public on this project in the form of letters (attached). The project page on the website has 
received 91 views and no comments. 
Attachments: 
1. Ordinance
2. Planning Commission Staff Report
3. Letters from various entities:
a. Habitat for Humanity of Laramie County
b. Affordable Housing Task Force
c. Laramie County Community Partnership
d. Southeast Wyoming Builders Association
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: “AN ORDINANCE AMENDING  5.7.3 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS  
OF THE CHEYENNE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TO REMOVE 
OWNER-OCCUPANCY AND ADJUST PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR 
ACCESSORY DWELLINGS , AND MAKING CONFORMING 
AMENDMENTS TO THE DEFINITIONS OF AN ACCESSORY 
DWELLING AND SEMI -ATTACHED DWELLING UNDER 1.4.4 
DESCRIPTIONS OF USES OF LAND AND BUILDINGS.” 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1.  That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
to the Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC) that is the subject of this ordinance meets the 
review criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the UDC. 
 
Section 2.  That on January 5, 2025, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing, 
reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text amendment. 
 
Section 3.  That 5.7.3 Accessory Dwelling Units , of 5.7 Specific Use Standards, of 
Article 5 Zoning Regulations, of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code is hereby amended to 
read: 
 
5.7.3 Accessory Dwelling Units 
 
In districts where accessory dwelling units are allowed as permitted, administrative or conditional 
uses, they shall meet the following standards in addition to all other lot and building standards for 
the district. 
 
a. The accessory dwelling unit may be in the principal building or any permitted accessory 
building, however all applicable lot and building type standards for the district shall apply. 
b. Only one accessory dwelling unit is permitted per detached one-unit dwelling lot in any zoning 
district where accessory dwellings are allowed as permitted, administrative or conditional uses. 
Accessory dwelling units are prohibited on lots with multi -dwelling buildings, attached 
dwellings or semi-attached dwellings. 
c. The property owner must occupy either the principal unit or the accessory dwelling unit as 
their permanent residence. 
dc. After approval by the Development Office Director of an accessory dwelling unit pursuant to 
subsection (b) of this section, the property owner will record with the Laramie County real 
estate office a “Notice of ADU Regulations” that shall contain a legal description of the subject 
property. The “Notice of ADU Regulations” shall be in a form approved by the Development 
Office Director prior to filling. 
ed. In no case shall an accessory dwelling unit be more than 40 percent of the principal dwelling 
unit up to a maximum of 1,200 square feet. This limitation is in addition to all other lot and 
Page 2 of 3 
 
building standards applicable in the district. Square footage calculations, as contained herein, 
exclude any related garage, porch, or similar area. 
fe. The unit size limitations shall not apply to basement apartments. The size of a basement 
apartment may occupy the entire floor area of the existing basement. 
gf. The accessory dwelling unit shall not include any design elements on principal or accessory 
buildings that alter the character of the lot, building type or district in general. 
hg. An accessory building used for an Accessory Dwelling Unit shall be designed to preserve or 
complement the architectural design, style and appearance of the principal building. 
ih. One off-street parking space shall be provided in addition to that which is required for the 
principal dwelling, and it shall be located on a discrete portion of the lot. 
 
Section 4.  That 1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings, of 1.4 Interpretation, of 
Article 1 General Provisions, of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code is hereby amended, 
with the entire text of the section, as amended, set forth in full in Attachment A pursuant to Wyo. 
Stat. § 15-1-117, which attachment is incorporated herein by this reference and shall control in the 
event of any inconsistency. The amendments adopted by Attachment A are limited to the following 
residential use definitions: 
 
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”).  A Residential use in a detached building designed as two 
principal dwelling units. It may be designed as a “paired house,” matching the appearance of 
a house , or it may be designed as a “flat -over-flat,” matching the appearance of a small 
apartment building or townhouse. A duplex is may be situated on its own fee simple lot, but 
each unit of a side -by-side paired house may shall meet all requirements to  be platted on an 
two individual lot if party walls are used  lots. Two units in the same building in the form of 
“flat-over-flat” duplex shall be considered an Accessory Dwelling, not a Semi -attached 
Dwelling. 
 
Accessory Dwelling.   A separate dwelling unit that is associated with, incidental to, and 
subordinate to another dwelling unit as the principal use, and is located on the same lot as the 
principal dwelling (commonly referred to as “In-laws Quarters ” “Basement Apartment” or 
“Garage Apartment”). The Accessory Dwelling may take form s such as a stand-alone unit in 
an accessory building , a small unit added onto the principal building,  or a “flat -over-flat” 
duplex. 
 
Section 5.  Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any of the  remaining 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
 Section 6.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
Page 3 of 3 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
 
(SEAL) 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 1 of 14 
 
ATTACHMENT A 
 
Amended Section 1.4.4 
Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings 
Cheyenne Unified Development Code 
 
Section 4.  That 1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings, of 1.4 Interpretation, of 
Article 1 General Provisions, of the Cheyenne Unified Development Code is hereby amended to 
read: 
 
1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings 
 
This section contains general descriptions associated with the uses of land and buildings. It is 
organized according to categories of uses and specific types of uses within each category. These 
categories and types correspond to the Use Table in Article 5,  Zoning Regulations. Where a use 
appears to meet two or more descriptions or where a use is not described, the Director shall make 
a determination. If a use meets all of the characteristics of a use category and use type, or is so 
similar to a described us e type as to create no anticipated differential impact, the Director may 
interpret that the described use includes the additional use. In making this determination, the 
Director shall compare: (a) the intensity and scale of the use relative to the site; (b) the typical site 
and building designs associated with the use; (c) the functional or operational characteristics and 
the potential impacts of the use on adjacent property; and (d) the potential contribution of the use 
to the overall character of the district or districts in which the comparable use is allowed. All other 
uses which cannot be interpreted in this manner are different from the described uses, are not 
anticipated by these regulations, and may only be allowed by a zoning text amendment. 
 
a. Residential Uses.   The Residential use category is for all types of dwelling units used for 
permanent residence, including a variety of lot types, building types, and unit types, that may 
vary in the kind and classes of buildings based on the character of the neighborhood. 
 
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse”/”Rowhouse”).  A Residential use in a building designed 
with a series of attached principal dwelling units separated by a single common wall. Each 
unit is typically situated on its own fee simple lot where party walls are used, but buildings 
or grounds may be owned in common. Each unit has the same orientation and front facade, 
and has its own private entrance to the exterior of the structure. 
 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 2 of 14 
 
Detached Dwelling.  A Residential use in a detached building designed as a single principal 
dwelling unit and situated on its own fee simple lot. 
 
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”).  A Residential use in a detached building designed as 
two principal dwelling units. It may be designed as a “paired house,” matching the 
appearance of a house, or it may be designed as a “flat-over-flat,” matching the appearance 
of a small apartment building  or townhouse. A duplex is may be situated on its own fee 
simple lot, but each unit of a side-by-side paired house may shall meet all requirements to 
be platted on an two individual lot if party walls are used  lots. Two units in the same 
building in the form of a “flat-over-flat” duplex shall be considered an Accessory Dwelling, 
not a Semi-attached Dwelling. 
 
Cottage Lot.  A Residential use utilizing detached  dwellings, semi-attached dwellings, or 
attached dwellings designed to face a common area (typically  open space) with other 
shared facilities (such as  shared public street access, shared parking, shared  trash 
collection, etc.). Individual dwelling units may  be on fee simple lots, a condominium, or 
on one larger ownership parcel. A cottage lot is also known as “bungalow court” or “cottage 
court”. Cottage lots are subject to the provisions of UDC Section 6.6.5. 
 
Group Housing.  A residential use, Group Housing is the provision of in-home, 24-hour, 7-
days a week custodial  care for from 1 to 6 individuals living together as a  single 
housekeeping unit in a single‑family, detached  dwelling unit. This maximum number 
excludes staff. This use does not include a household where  custodial care is provided by 
a family member to  from 1 to 6 persons in a single -family, detached  dwelling unit. 
Custodial care includes the provision  of in -home personal assistance, housekeeping  
service, supervision, and limited medical assistance to a resident or residents. Examples of 
Group Housing include, but are not limited to, homes for elders and disabled or mobility - 
impaired persons, homes for rehabilitation from drugs or alcohol addiction, or homes for 
formerly incarcerated persons. The Group H ousing use is subject to the provisions of 
Section 5.7.5.d and e of the UDC. 
 
Dormitories.  A Residential use in a building that provides sleeping accommodations for a 
number of people. 
 
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”).  A Residential use in a building designed for more 
than two principal dwelling units and situated on a single fee simple lot. This building type 
includes a variety of variations based on the permitted building scale, including “stacked 
flats” (3-story/tri-plex), “six-plex” (paired stacked flats), or larger apartment buildings. 
 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 3 of 14 
 
Live/Work.  A primarily residential use in a building designed for two principal uses, where 
a portion is designed for residential dwelling use, and a portion is designed for a limited 
non-residential use to support the occupation or vocation of the resident of the dw elling 
unit. The non-residential portion is limited to the 1st story and less than 50% of the total 
floor area of the building. The building is situated on its own fee simple lot but may be 
attached or detached based on zoning district standards and context. 
 
Mixed-use Dwelling.  A Residential use in a building designed for a mix of uses with office 
or retail on the 1st story / street -front and residential uses on the upper stories where the 
dwelling units are not accessory to the non -residential uses. Mixed-use buildings may be 
either small - or large -scale, with larger scale buildings, depending on the context and 
zoning district standards, and typically being broken into multiple fee simple lots with party 
walls, but the dwelling units may be owned in fee simple, as condominiums, or apartments. 
 
Accessory Dwelling.  A separate dwelling unit that is associated with, incidental to, and 
subordinate to another dwelling unit as the principal use, and is located on the same lot as 
the principal dwelling (commonly referred to as “In-laws Quarters  ” “Basement 
Apartment” or “Garage Apartment”). The Accessory Dwelling may take form s such as a 
stand-alone unit in an accessory building , a small unit added onto the principal building,  
or a “flat-over-flat” duplex. 
 
Urban Loft Building.  A residential use in a building designed for more than two principal 
dwelling units and situated on a single fee simple lot. This building type contemplates a 
taller multifamily building, often with parking structured or at grade with the building 
above, located in a walkable, mixed use context.  
 
Manufactured housing parks.  An area of land under one fee ownership, where designated 
spaces for manufactured home are rented for use as a principal dwelling unit, and which 
may provide associated facilities for common use. 
 
b. Civic Uses.   The Civic use category includes uses serving a broad and general public  and 
community interest to enhance daily cultural, social or recreation opportunities for area 
landowners and residents. This category is based on the need of different kinds and classes of 
buildings in close proximity with other uses, which can be integrated in to these areas with the 
appropriate level of civic design. The Civic use category may contain uses that are either public 
and accessible to all citizens; common and accessible by rights associated with ownership; or 
private and accessible by membership or general association. 
 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 4 of 14 
 
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy) .  A Civic use that conducts 
organized services, assemblies, or programs on a periodic or occasional basis, primarily for 
the convenience, entertainment, education, and social or spiritual welfare of nearby 
residents. Neighborhood Assemblies typically have bu ildings and supporting facilities 
designed for a capacity of no more than 350 people for any one event. Common examples 
include meeting halls, neighborhood association club houses, or smaller neighborhood 
churches. 
 
Community Assembly (350 -1000 maximum occupancy) .  A Civic use that conducts 
organized services, assemblies, or programs on a periodic or occasional basis, primarily for 
the convenience, entertainment, education, and social or spiritual welfare for citizens in the 
general vicinity. Community Assemblies typically have buildings and supporting facilities 
designed for a capacity of no more than 1000 people for any one event. Common examples 
include community centers, museum, or large churches. [ For larger ass emblies see 
Entertainment, Venue]. 
 
Cemeteries.  A Civic use where land is used for the burial of the deceased, both human and 
animals, and dedicated for internment purposes, including columbaria, crematoria, 
mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the boundary 
of such cemetery. 
 
Primary and Secondary Schools.   A Civic use where buildings and facilities are used for 
the education and instruction of K through 12 students. 
 
Educational Facilities.   A Civic use where buildings and facilities are used for the 
education and instruction of post -secondary students, non -traditional students, or 
continuing education for adult or general population. 
 
Community Athletic Field.   A noncommercial facility for active outdoor recreation and 
organized sports, including a facility which is an accessory use to a school, but excluding 
any facility with lighted fields or permanent buildings for refreshment stands, locker rooms 
or shower facilities. 
 
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium.  A facility for active outdoor recreation and organized 
sports which includes lighted fields, permanent grandstands, or permanent buildings for 
refreshment stands, locker rooms or shower facilities. 
 
c. Service Uses.   The Service use category is for businesses engaged in the exchange of 
professional skills, advice, personal care or other resources, and the nature of the exchange 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 5 of 14 
 
generally requires frequent interactions with the clients, customers or patrons on the premises, 
and where lots or buildings may require access or exposure to the public-at-large. 
 
Service Business – Limited.  A Service use that primarily supports adjacent residential uses 
by providing daily services for the convenience of residents, and involving less than 3,000 
square feet of gross leasable area. Examples include post office, bank outlet, barber shop 
or beauty salon, tailor, or other similar services. 
 
Service Business – General.  A Service use that provides support for adjacent residential 
uses or businesses which may involve more than 3,000 square feet of gross leasable area. 
Examples include copy centers, large banks, or any other similar services that exceed the 
scale of Service Business – Limited. 
 
Assisted Living Facility / Nursing Home.  A Service use / institutional occupancy providing 
residential accommodations for 7 or more persons to meet the needs of the aging, semi -
dependent or dependent population in a residential environment, together with recreation 
and support services and facilities for the benefit of the residents and where any permanent 
on-site staff is accessory to the primarily residential use. On -site skilled nursing care or 
medical facilities may be provided. An Assisted Living Facility/Nursing Home use is 
subject to the provisions of Section 5.7.5 of the UDC. An Assisted Living facility/Nursing 
Home use, pursuant to this definition, does not include a Group Housing use or site. An 
Assisted Living Facility/Nursing Home operation may take place within a residential or a 
non-residential structure. 
 
Animal Care, Kennel.  A Service use where domestic animals are boarded, bred or sold as 
a primary business.  Animal Care, Hospital / Clinic. A Service use where animals are 
admitted for examination, treatment, or health care by a doctor of veterinary medicine, 
which may include kennels, runs or other accessory accommodations. 
 
Family Child Care Home (FCCH).   A Service use where preschool care and education is 
provided for up to 10 children within the owner’s primary residence. The owner’s infants, 
toddler and/or children ages three (3) to five (5) shall count toward the capacity. 
 
Family Child Care Center (FCCC).  A Service use where preschool care and education is 
provided for up to 15 children within the owner’s primary residence. The owner’s infants, 
toddler and/or children ages three (3) to five (5) shall count toward the capacity. 
 
Child Care Center (CCC).  A Service use where preschool care and education is provided 
for children on a regular basis not located in any person’s residence. 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 6 of 14 
 
 
Emergency Shelter.  A facility, which provides shelter or overnight accommodations and 
incidental support services for persons experiencing homelessness and/or families on a 
short-term basis. 
 
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility .  A Service use where facilities for indoor 
sports, entertainment, or similar recreation opportunities for participants and spectators are 
offered. Examples of uses include bowling alleys, pool halls, roller skating rinks, 
swimming pools, movie theaters, vid eo or similar gaming venues, racquetball courts, or 
fitness clubs. 
 
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility.   A Service use where facilities for outdoor 
sports, entertainment, or similar recreation opportunities for participants and spectators are 
offered. Examples include racetracks, driving ranges, music performance venues, or other 
outdoor entertainment venues. 
 
Entertainment, Venue.  A Service use where music concerts, floor shows or other forms of 
entertainment, performances or presentations by persons are provided indoors for guests or 
the general public, which may include accessory dining, bar, and similar refreshment 
services. Exam ples include concert halls, theatrical performance art centers, dinner 
theaters, other food or beverage -serving establishments providing live entertainment 
venues, banquet halls, or auditoriums. 
 
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation Services—Other.  A Service use primarily engaged 
in the operation of indoor or outdoor entertainment, amusement and recreation services not 
elsewhere classified, such as off -track betting, indoor or outdoor shooting range, 
amusement parks, or similar sports or recreation venues. 
 
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast.   A Service use where up to six guest rooms are rented, 
generally for short -term occupancy for sleeping, together with limited facilities for the 
accommodations of guests in a home-like atmosphere. 
 
Lodging, Hotel or Motel.   A Service use where six or more guest rooms are rented, 
generally for short-term occupancy for sleeping, together with incidental meeting rooms, 
restaurants and recreation facilities for the primary benefit of the guests. 
 
Medical Care, Clinic.   A Service use where physicians, dentists, or other health care 
professionals are associated for the purpose of carrying on their professions. A health clinic 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 7 of 14 
 
may include a dental or medical laboratory, after hours emergency care, but it may not 
include in-patient care or operating rooms for major surgery. 
 
Medical Care, Office.   A Service use where  physicians, dentists, or other health care 
professionals carrying on their professions. A medical office may include a dental or 
medical laboratory, but may not include in -patient care or operating rooms for major 
surgery and may not be open for after-hours emergency care. 
 
Medical Care, Hospital.  A Service use providing health services, primarily for inpatients, 
and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an integral part of the 
institution such related facilities as laboratories, outpatient departments, training facilities, 
central service facilities and staff offices. 
 
Mini Storage.  A Service use where a building or group of buildings in a controlled-access 
and fenced compound that contains varying sizes(s) of individual, compartmentalized and 
controlled-access stalls or lockers for the storage of a customer’s goods or wares. Mini 
Storage may include individual units accessed from inside of a building offered for rent or 
lease for the storage of personal property. It may also include parking areas for the storage 
of vehicles, trailers, recreational vehicles, boats, snow mobiles and other similar items as 
an accessory use. Outdoor storage, or the storage of junk, explosives, or flammable 
materials and other noxious or dangerous materials are specifically prohibited. 
 
Storage, Yard.  A Service use where exterior yards are leased for the outdoor storage of 
large-item personal property such as boats or recreational vehicles. 
 
d. Employment Uses.  The Employment use category is for businesses engaged in administrative, 
clerical, and professional operations and support, where products or services are of the nature 
that generally, when compared to Retail Use Types, do not require daily on -premise 
interactions with the clients, customers or patrons, and where lots and buildings are not 
primarily designed to maximize exposure to the public-at-large. 
 
Home Occupation.  A business which is carried on entirely within a legal or legal non -
conforming dwelling or allowed accessory building, and which is clearly incidental and 
secondary to the use of the premises as a dwelling. 
 
Office - Limited.  An Employment use which is not an accessory to another use, but limited 
individual units of gross leasable area are less than 3,500 square feet, and where each owner 
or tenant typically employs less than 20 employees on premises. Examples include small-
scale professional service offices such as accountants, architects, insurance, law, real estate, 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 8 of 14 
 
or other similar businesses which can operate within the unit square footage and employee 
limits of this category. 
 
Office - General.  An Employment use where individual units of gross leasable area are 
between 3,500 and 20,000 square feet, and where each owner or tenant typically employs 
between 20 and 100 employees on premises. Examples include large professional service 
offices such as  accountants, architects, insurance, law, real estate, or other similar 
businesses which exceed the Office - Limited category, or other moderate size business or 
corporate employment operations. 
 
Major Office or Office Complex.   An Employment use where individual units of gross 
leasable area may be more than 20,000 square feet in a single building or group of 
buildings, and each owner or tenant may typically employ more than 100 employees on 
premises. Examples include major professional service firms or large corporate offices. 
 
e. Commercial Uses.   The Commercial use category is for businesses engaged in the 
exchange of merchandise for general consumers, and nature of the exchange generally requires 
frequent interactions with the clients, customers or patrons on the premises, where lots or buildings 
are primarily designed for exposure to the public-at-large. 
 
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k).   A Commercial use primarily engaged in the 
small-scale sale of household merchandise and general consumer products and involving 
less than 2,000 square feet of gross leasable area. Convenience Retail / Corner Store uses 
are characterized by target market ar eas of less than 1/4 mile radius for most of its on -
premise sales or are associated accessory to an employment or service business. 
 
Neighborhood Retail (<5K).  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the small-scale sale 
of household merchandise and general consumer products and involving less than 5,000 
square feet of gross leasable area. Neighborhood retail uses are characterized by a target 
market area of less than ½ mile radius for most of its on premise sales. 
 
General Retail (5K - 25K).  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the sale of household 
merchandise, specialty merchandise, and consumer products and involving between 5,000 
and 25,000 square feet of gross leasable area. General Retail uses are characterized by a 
target market area of less than 1 mile radius for most of its on-premise sales. 
 
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K).  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the sale of 
household merchandise, specialty merchandise or general consumer products and 
involving between 25,000 and 100,000 square feet of gross leasable area. Large -scale 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 9 of 14 
 
Retail uses are characterized by a target market area that may be greater than 1 mile radius 
for the on-premise component of its sales. 
 
Warehouse Retail (> 100K).  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the sale of household 
merchandise, specialty products, general consumer products, or wholesale products and 
involving greater than 100,000 square feet of gross leasable area. Warehouse Retail uses 
are characterized by a target market area that may be more than 1 mile radius for most of 
its sales. 
 
Grocery Store (<45K).  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of a broad range of 
food products and limited household products for consumption off premises, although 
some limited areas may be dedicated to the on -premise sale and consumption of food. A 
grocery store involves  less than 45,000 square feet of gross leasable area and is 
characterized by a target market of less than 1-mile radius. 
 
Supermarket (> 45K).   A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of a broad range of 
food and household products for consumption off premises, although some limited areas 
may be dedicated to the on-premise sale and consumption of food. A supermarket typically 
involves more than 45,000 square feet of gross leasable area and is characterized by a target 
market of greater than 1-mile radius. 
 
Outdoor Sales, Limited.  The limited display of merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior 
private area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted Commercial use. This display 
is further limited by the following:  (1) it only occurs during regular business hours and is 
brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent to less than 10% of the entire merchandise area of 
the Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sales or events lasting no longer than 
one-week at a time with at least 4 weeks between consecutive events. 
 
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal.  The limited display of merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior 
private area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted Commercial use. This display 
is further limited by the following:  (1) it only occurs during regular business hours and is 
brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent to less than 20% of the entire merchandise area of 
the Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sales or events lasting no longer than 
one month at a time with at least 2 months between consecutive events. 
 
Outdoor Sales, Event  or Display Area.  The display of merchandise on a sidewalk or an 
exterior private area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted Commercial use that 
does not meet the limitations of Limited or Seasonal Outdoor Sales, and which may require 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 10 of 14 
 
areas to be designed and dedicated for display when part of the permanent operations of an 
interior retail business. Examples include lumber yards and garden centers. 
 
Outdoor Sales.   The display and sale of merchandise where the primary business is 
generated by merchandise displayed permanently and year round on an exterior portion of 
the site. Examples include automobile sales and implement sales. 
 
Bars.  A Commercial use primarily engaged in serving alcoholic beverages for 
consumption on-premises. Any food or entertainment services are generally secondary or 
accessory to the business. 
 
Liquor Store.  A Commercial use engaged primarily in the retail sale of alcoholic beverages 
for consumption off -premises. The sale of food or accessory beverage supplies are 
generally secondary or accessory to the business. 
 
Automobile Service Repair.   A Commercial use engaged in the repair, maintenance, 
condition, detailing, or cleaning of motor vehicles and including the accessory sales of 
lubricants, parts, or accessories. Services also include any modification, assembly or 
painting of motor vehicles and repair of internal combustion engines. 
 
Automobile Service Station – Limited.  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, 
and may include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair services, or maintenance 
services. This use is limited to no more than 2 fuel pump islands and no more than 8 fueling 
stations. 
 
Automobile Service Station – General.  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, 
and may include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair services, or maintenance 
services, or accessory Convenience Retail. This use is limited to no more than 4 fuel pump 
islands and no more than 16 fueling stations. 
 
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale.  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of 
fuel, and may include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair services, or 
maintenance services, or accessory Convenience Retail. This use may have more than 4 
fuel pump islands and more than 16 fueling stations. 
 
Food Service – Limited (< 2K).  Any Commercial use engaged in the preparation and retail 
sale of food and beverages for consumption on -site and including less than 2,000 square 
feet of seating area. 
 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 11 of 14 
 
Food Service – General (2K – 4K).  Any Commercial use engaged in the preparation and 
retail sale of food and beverages for consumption on-site and including between 2,000 and 
4,000 square feet of seating area. 
 
Food Service – Large-scale (> 4k).  Any Commercial use engaged in the preparation and 
retail sale of food and beverages for consumption on site and including more than 4,000 
square feet of seating area. 
 
f. Industrial Use Category.   The Industrial use category is for businesses engaged in 
manufacturing, fabrication, warehousing, processing, wholesale or disposal of goods, products 
and component parts, and services related to these businesses. These uses typically belong in 
a special district due to their inability to blend with the uses from other use categories, except 
when occurring at the smallest scale. 
 
Data Center.  A use consisting of buildings or structures specifically designed or modified 
to house networked computers and data and transaction processing equipment and related 
infrastructure support equipment, including power and cooling equipment. A data center 
may be used to provide data and transaction processing services, outsource information 
technology services and/or computer equipment colocation services. A data center may also 
include buildings or structures that support the operation of the dat a center including 
retrofit buildings, warehousing for logistics, independent network buildings, buildings for 
support staff, and emergency generators. A Data Center shall not include activities which 
consistently produce noise discernable at the property line. Should a Data Center produce 
noise discernable at the property line, it shall be classified as an Industrial use. 
 
Limited Industrial.  An Industrial use where small -scale activities produce no byproducts 
such as smoke, odor, dust or noise discernable from the outside of the building in which it 
is located. Individual facilities typically occupy less than 10,000 square feet of gross 
leasable area and distribution and deliveries are commonly made by general consumer 
delivery services, requiring no significant truck access. A retail, showroom, or service 
component is often associated with the use. Examples include artist studios, metal and 
wood shops, arts and crafts manufacturing, small appliance or machine repairs, or other 
small-scale assembly of finished parts or products from previously prepared materials. 
 
Moderate Industrial.  An Industrial use where byproducts such as smoke, odor, dust or 
noise are not discernable from outside of the building in which it is located. Distribution 
and deliveries can occur from general consumer delivery services or limited commercial 
truck access. Examples include research labs or facilities, small electronics or computer 
assembly and manufacturing, furniture assembly. 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 12 of 14 
 
 
General Industrial.  An Industrial use where byproducts such as smoke, odor, dust or noise 
are not discernable from beyond the property boundary. Operations may require 
commercial vehicle access for distribution and deliveries. Examples include non -animal 
food processing, comm ercial warehouses or wholesale distribution centers or energy 
industry services. 
 
Industrial.  An Industrial use capable of producing significant byproducts discernable from 
outside the building and property including noise, odors, or other potentially offensive 
materials. Operations may require substantial commercial vehicle access for distribution  
and deliveries. Examples include food-processing involving animals (large-scale), metal or 
chemical manufacturing, and data centers which consistently produce noise discernable at 
the property line. 
 
Limited Outdoor Storage.  A use where less than 50% of the lot is used to store equipment 
and other materials customarily used in the operations associated with the principal use of 
the property in an unenclosed area. 
 
Outdoor Storage.  A use not classified as Limited Outdoor Storage where property is used 
to store equipment, vehicles, or other materials in an unenclosed area. 
 
Impoundment Yards.   An industrial use where a government agency establishes and 
operates a fenced yard or enclosed area where storage of vehicles seized by, and in the 
custody of, the government agency, are stored for retrieval by the vehicle owner or are sold 
by proper means by the agency. 
 
Salvage Yards.  An Industrial use where materials are extracted from unusable equipment, 
structures, or vehicles and stored for future use or resale. 
 
Junk Yards.  An Industrial use where waste or used material are bought, sold, exchanged, 
stored or processed for disposal. 
 
Pet Crematory.  An Industrial use where land and buildings are used for the preparation 
and processing of deceased domestic animals. 
 
Air Cargo Terminals.  An Industrial use where land and buildings are used for the storage 
of airplanes, airplane cargo or other facilities associated with air transportation or air 
shipping. 
 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 13 of 14 
 
Aircraft Sales, Repair, Service, Storage.   An Industrial use where land and buildings are 
used for keeping inventory related to aircraft sales or for the storage and maintenance of 
aircraft. 
 
Railroad Yards and Maintenance Buildings.   An Industrial use where land and buildings 
are used for the storage of rail cars, rail cargo or other facilities associated with rail 
transportation or rail shipping. 
 
g. Public Service Uses.  The Public Service use category is for businesses or government entities 
engaged providing technical and operational services that serve the general public and 
community interest to enhance general health, safety, welfare and convenience for landowners 
and residents, and that serve interests beyond the specific site or facility. This category is based 
on the need of different kinds and classes of buildings in close proximity with other uses, which 
can be buffered from the adjacent a reas they serve with the appropriate site design, or 
alternatively which can be located in special purpose districts and still serve the public interest. 
 
Commercial or Public Parking Facility.   A Public Service use where land and buildings 
are used for hourly or daily parking of passenger vehicles that serves other uses, sites and 
buildings in the vicinity. The parking services may be owned by the government or owned 
and operated as a business. 
 
Government Facility.  A facility or area of land controlled and/or operated by a government 
entity to aid in providing a service to the citizens under the jurisdiction of that entity. 
 
Military.  A Public Service use where land and buildings are used for operations of the 
United States Armed Forces. 
 
Recycling Services.  A Public Service use where land and buildings are used for the public 
drop-off, storage, and packaging of recyclable materials. Processing may occur on site, or 
materials may be shipped to other industrial sites for further processing. 
 
Transportation Facilities.   A Public Service use engaged in the business of offering 
transportation services to the public, such as airport terminals, bus stations, train stations, 
taxi stations, parking garages, bicycle depots or similar facilities for common storage 
personal vehicles or common boarding of public vehicles. 
 
Utility Stations.  A Public Service use where land is used for the concentrated location of 
fixed equipment necessary to serve adjacent areas with utility service, including other 
accessory buildings and facilities essential to the operation of the equipment. 
 
Attachment A – Amended Section 1.4.4 
Page 14 of 14 
 
 
h. Agriculture Uses.  The Agriculture use category is for uses that are commonly associated with 
an agrarian or rustic lifestyle, and which demand little or no public infrastructure or services. 
 
General Agriculture.  The production of grain, animals, food and fiber; the science and art 
of farming and ranching; and the work of cultivating the soil, producing crops and raising 
livestock. General Agriculture specifically excludes concentrated feeding operations where 
swine are confined, fed and maintained for 45 consecutive days or more in any 12 -month 
period. 
 
Limited Agriculture.  The production of grain, animals, food and fiber on a small scale 
where any impacts on potential adjacent property from storage, operations, and equipment 
can be internalized into the site or buffered from abutting areas, typically not occurring on 
lots or parcels larger than 10 acres. 
 
Agricultural Equipment and Supply.  An Agriculture use where the land and buildings are 
used for retail sales of equipment and materials used for agricultural-related land uses, and 
accessory servicing of agriculture equipment. 
 
Agriculture Product Sales / Farmers Market.  An Agriculture use where land and buildings 
are used for the retail sale of agricultural products and operated without any additional or 
permanent site facilities than are otherwise associated with agriculture use. Road side 
stands, truck sales, or barn sa les are examples of such uses, however the intensity and 
frequency of such sales shall be so that no additional parking, roads, structures, 
warehouses, or other storage facilities are necessary on the site. 
 
Arenas and Show Barns.   An Agriculture use where the land and buildings are used for 
show or sale of livestock, and where the public can attend these and other related activities. 
 
Commercial Stables.   An Agriculture use where land and buildings are used for the 
business of boarding horses, donkeys, mules, burros, llamas or other similar equine 
animals. 
 
Nurseries, Landscaping.  An Agriculture use to grow plants of any kind for transplanting 
to another location or for sale as live plants rather than as crops, including the sale of related 
equipment and supplies. 
 
1 | Page  
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF CHEYENNE PLANNING COMMISSION 
JANUARY 5, 2026 
STAFF REPORT 
REQUEST: 
A Text Amendment amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) 
5.7.3 Accessory Dwelling Units with conforming amendments to UDC 
1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings 
CASE NUMBER: PLTA-25-10  
PURPOSE: To allow ADUs without required owner occupancy and with more 
parking flexibility. Also to clarify associated definitions. 
PREPARED BY: Seth Lloyd, AICP, Senior Planner, Planning and Development  
 
 
RECOMMENDED MOTION: 
Move to recommend the Governing Body approve text amendments to the Unified Development Code 
5.7.3 Accessory Dwelling Units and 1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings as outlined in this 
staff report and recommended by staff, noting the amendments meet the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
BACKGROUND: 
The City’s Unified Development Code (UDC) was adopted by the Governing Body on January 23, 2012, by 
Ordinance Number 3943 with an effective date of April 30, 2012.  The Unified Development Code is the 
regulatory document carrying out the vision of PlanCheyenne and is reviewed annually pursuant to UDC 1.1.7 
[Annual Review Requirement] to determine if any particular standard or regulation is timely, relevant and 
adequately addresses current market conditions. In addition to the annual review, the City Council, Planning 
and Development Director, and City Engineer are authorized under UDC 2.4.1.b to bring forward text 
amendments on their own initiative.  
 
The proposed text amendments are to the accessory dwelling unit (ADU) portion of the UDC. ADUs are 
currently allowed via administrative use approval in any zone district where single-family homes are permitted. 
Any ADU application must meet the standards in UDC 5.7.3, which include requirements such as what lots they 
are allowed on, size, design, parking, and a requirement for owner-occupancy. 
 
The City receives an average of about 3 ADU applications a year under current code requirements. City Staff 
does receive many inquiries a year about adding a second unit on a single-family home property, but if the 
proposed result will not be owner-occupied, the property must meet the standards for a Semi-attached 
Dwelling. In the definitions section of the UDC, a flat-over-flat duplex is clearly considered a possible option for 
a Semi-attached Dwelling, but the standards for Semi-attached Dwelling lot types in UDC 5.1.5 only really 
appropriately address side-by-side duplexes. Semi-attached Dwellings are allowed as a permitted use in all 
zones that allow Accessory Dwellings except AG, AR, and RR. 
 
PLTA-25-10   January 5, 2026 
2 | Page  
  
The recommendations of various housing proponents encourage the allowance of ADUs on all single-family 
properties (which Cheyenne already does), and also recommends not requiring off-street parking or owner 
occupancy to establish ADUs (which Cheyenne does not). Part of the housing legislation in Montana requires 
larger communities to allow ADUs and does not allow those communities to restrict ADUs to owner occupancy 
or to require parking. 
 
While Cheyenne Staff has long been aware of issues surrounding ADUs in the community, proposing formal 
changes to the UDC was low on Staff’s priority list. However, due to the prior research and discussion on ADUs 
in Cheyenne, when a City Council member requested Staff move forward changes to ADU regulations, Staff 
was ready to discuss and bring forward formal amendments. 
 
Under the current zoning code (where owner-occupancy is required) the Chief Building official has been lenient 
on ADUs, considering them ‘separate kitchens in one dwelling’ as opposed to ‘two dwellings’. The Building 
code gives more latitude to home owners working on their own homes, and such an interpretation is in line 
with that latitude.  
 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT: 
The proposed amendments remove owner-occupancy requirements, give more flexibility to meeting required 
parking, and clarify the zoning requirements associated with flat-over-flat duplexes. A few other minor 
technical changes are also included. 
 
Changes to owner occupancy and clarifying the definition of “flat-over-flat” will give more properties the ability 
to have ADUs. However, by removing owner-occupancy as a zoning requirement, the Building department will 
need to treat ADU applications as ‘two units’. When Staff contacted building departments in Montana, they 
were informed by those officials that they treated all ADUs the same as a flat-over-flat duplexes for the 
purposes of compliance with building code. 
 
Changes to parking gives more flexibility on how to meet required parking, including a third stall on a 
driveway, or on-street parking, where a lot has sufficient street frontage (such as a corner lot). 
 
Specific Text of the Proposed Amendment: 
 
5.7.3 Accessory Dwelling Units 
In districts where accessory dwelling units are allowed as permitted, administrative or conditional uses, 
they shall meet the following standards in addition to all other lot and building standards for the district.  
a. The accessory dwelling unit may be in the principal building or any permitted accessory building, 
however all applicable lot and building type standards for the district shall apply. 
b. Only one accessory dwelling unit is permitted per detached one-unit dwelling lot in any zoning 
district where accessory dwellings are allowed as permitted, administrative or conditional uses. 
Accessory dwelling units are prohibited on lots with multi-dwelling buildings, attached dwellings or 
semi-attached dwellings. 
c. The property owner must occupy either the principal unit or the accessory dwelling unit as their 
permanent residence. 
dc. After approval by the Development Office Director of an accessory dwelling unit pursuant to 
subsection (b) of this section, the property owner will record with the Laramie County real estate 
office a “Notice of ADU Regulations” that shall contain a legal description of the subject property. The 
“Notice of ADU Regulations” shall be in a form approved by the Development Office  Director prior to 
filling. 
PLTA-25-10   January 5, 2026 
3 | Page  
  
ed. In no case shall an accessory dwelling unit be more than 40 percent of the principal dwelling unit 
up to a maximum of 1,200 square feet. This limitation is in addition to all other lot and building 
standards applicable in the district. Square footage calculations, as contained herein, exclude any 
related garage, porch, or similar area. 
fe. The unit size limitations shall not apply to basement apartments. The size of a basement apartment 
may occupy the entire floor area of the existing basement. 
gf. T he accessory dwelling unit shall not include any design elements on principal or accessory 
buildings that alter the character of the lot, building type or district in general.  
hg. An accessory building used for an Accessory Dwelling Unit shall be designed to preserve or 
complement the architectural design, style and appearance of the principal building.  
ih. O ne off- street parking space shall be provided in addition to that which is required for the 
principal dwelling, and it shall be located on a discrete portion of the lot. 
 
1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings 
… 
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”). A Residential use in a detached building designed as two principal 
dwelling units. It may be designed as a “paired house,” matching the appearance of a house, or it may 
be designed as a “flat-over-flat,” matching the appearance of a small apartment building or 
townhouse. A duplex is may be situated on its own fee simple lot, but each unit of a side-by-side 
paired house may shall meet all requirements to be platted on an two individual lots if party walls are 
used. Two units in the same building in the form of “flat-over-flat” duplex shall be considered an 
Accessory Dwelling, not a Semi-attached Dwelling. 
… 
Accessory Dwelling. A separate dwelling unit that is associated with, incidental to, and subordinate to 
another dwelling unit as the principal use, and is located on the same lot as the principal dwelling 
(commonly referred to as “In-laws Quarters Basement Apartment” or “Garage Apartment”). The 
Accessory Dwelling may take the form of a stand-alone unit in an accessory building, a small unit 
added onto the principal building, or a “flat-over-flat” duplex. 
 
ANALYSIS OF CONFORMANCE WITH REVIEW CRITERIA: 
Review of a UDC text amendment shall be measured by the following three (3) criteria of Section 2.4.1.d:  
 
1. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:  
“The amendment is in accordance with general goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan, or is 
necessary to address an emerging issue not anticipated in the Comprehensive Plan and is not 
inconsistent with the plan.” 
 
PlanCheyenne specifically addresses accessory dwelling units in Policy 2.5.B – this policy 
encourages distribution of workforce housing throughout the community, including utilizing 
“smaller-scale, non-traditional forms of housing, such as cottage lots and accessory dwelling 
units, that can be readily integrated into established neighborhoods.” 
 
PlanCheyenne also encourages mixing of housing types and sizes in a neighborhood, and 
accessory dwelling units are a way to add diversity of housing types and sizes to a neighborhood. 
Plan Cheyenne encourages housing diversity to allow for people who are in a variety of life stages 
to live in the same area. 
 
 
 
PLTA-25-10   January 5, 2026 
4 | Page  
  
However, PlanCheyenne encourages high-quality neighborhoods, the stabilization of 
neighborhoods, and monitoring infill development over time to ensure standards are balanced in 
their ability to protect desirable neighborhood characteristics while not discouraging 
reinvestment. Current ADU regulations require new detached ADUs to be built in a way that 
reflects the neighborhood character. Monitoring ADU applications to confirm ADUs are not 
creating an undue influence in any one neighborhood may be necessary. 
 
When PlanCheyenne was adopted in 2014, housing pressures faced by Cheyenne were not nearly 
as great are they as today. Although PlanCheyenne lends plenty of support to housing choice, 
workforce housing, and workforce housing, the need for housing is more of an emerging issue and 
the text amendment is consistent with the plan.  
  
2. STATE STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS:  
The amendment is consistent with the Wyoming Statutes, and specifically the Municipal Planning and 
Zoning statutes. (The following Articles are all listed verbatim from Wyoming State Statute) 
 
From ARTICLE 6 – ZONING of TITLE 15 CITIES AND TOWNS: 
WY 15-1-601. Regulations; scope and purpose; uniformity within authorized districts; to follow 
plan; objectives. 
(a) The governing body of any city or town, by ordinance, may: 
(i) Regulate and restrict the: 
…. 
(E) Location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry, residence or other 
purposes. 
Assessment: This amendment proposes modifying the Unified Development Code to change 
regulations regarding residences, which is authorized by state statute. 
 
3. HEALTH, SAFETY, AND PUBLIC WELFARE:  
“The amendment promotes the general health, safety and public welfare.” 
 
This amendment would promote the general health, safety and public welfare of Cheyenne. The 
amendment will give more flexibility to housing and clarify areas of code that may be ambiguous .  
 
REVIEW: 
Staff sent the text amendment to the City Building Office, City Fire Prevention, and the County Assessor 
for review. The Building Office commented on how ADU applications are treated with required owner 
occupancy versus how they would be treated without. Staff’s discussion with building departments in 
other communities has shown that the Cheyenne Building Office’s proposed interpretation would be 
consistent with national trends and standards. The City Fire Prevention Office concurred with the Building 
Office. The County Assessor acknowledged the potential change to process and will make appropriate 
adjustments if the changes pass. 
 
PUBLIC NOTICE AND PUBLIC COMMENTS RECEIVED: 
Although projects have public notice and the opportunity for public comments, projects are required to 
be approved or denied based on the review criteria (listed above). Public comments relevant to the review 
criteria may assist the review and discussion on the application. 
 
PLTA-25-10   January 5, 2026 
5 | Page  
  
Staff reviewed prior ADU applications for any trends in builders who make ADUs, and  found no trend – 
each ADU was a unique project. As far as Staff can tell, there are no ‘ADU specialist’ builders. Staff has 
discussed the potential ADU changes with general builders, and have received no negative feedback.  
  
The public was given notice of the project in the following ways: 
• Legal Notice in the Wyoming Tribune Eagle published on December 20, 2025 
• Internet Posting on connect.cheyennecity.org on December 1, 2025. 
 
As of the publication of the Staff Report (December 29, 2025), Staff has received no inquires or comments 
from the public on this project. The project page on the website has received 78 views and no comments. 
Staff reviewed prior ADU applications for any trends in builders who make ADUs, and found no trend –  
each ADU was a unique project. As far as Staff can tell, there are no ‘ADU specialist’ builders. Staff has 
discussed the potential ADU change with general builders, and have received no negative feedback.  
 
CONCLUSION: 
Staff is satisfied that the application meets the review criteria set forth in UDC 2. 4.1.d. 
 
ALTERNATIVES: 
1. Recommend approval of the Text Amendment as submitted by the applicant (Staff 
Recommendation).  
2. Recommend approval of the Text Amendment subject to conditions or modifications.  
3. Recommend denial of the Text Amendment based on findings of denial. The Planning 
Commission must conclude that the project does not meet at least one of the review criteria. As 
part of the motion, findings for denial must be stated. 
4. Postpone the Text Amendment until issues identified during the meeting can be resolved. 
 
General Information Regarding Alternatives: 
 
If the Commission acts contrary to staff’s recommendation or recommends conditions of approval, the 
Commission shall cite specific reasons (based on the review criteria) for their recommendation. 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION: 
Staff recommends approval of text amendments to the Unified Development Code 5.7.3 Accessory 
Dwelling Units and 1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings as outlined in this staff report and 
recommended by staff, noting the amendments meet the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
Attachment: 
1. Habitat Letter of Support 
 

 
 
Honorable Mayor Collins and Esteemed Cheyenne City Council 
2101 O’Neil Ave. 
Cheyenne, WY  82001 
 
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) recommendation 
 
The Mayor’s Taskforce on Affordable Housing in Cheyenne has unanimously voted to 
support changes to local requirements governing owner occupancy on properties with 
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs).  We believe this reform advances our community’s 
goals around housing affordability and supply. 
 
Cheyenne faces a significant housing shortage—approximately 1,400 homes, or 3% of 
our entire housing stock (AEI Housing Center). This shortage drives up prices, 
squeezes families out of homeownership, and increases rent burdens for workers. 
Without action, these pressures will continue to displace residents and strain our local 
economy. 
 
Allowing non-owner occupied properties with ADUs aligns with strategies our city has 
pursued to restore affordability. According to the Strong Foundations Playbook 
produced by the US Chamber of Commerce, enabling non-owner occupied ADUs could 
add over 25 new ADUs annually. These homes provide naturally affordable options for 
families, seniors, and workers, while making better use of existing infrastructure. 
 
Our hope is that these changes will: 
• Encourage development and permitting of ADUs. 
• Expand housing choices for residents at all income levels. 
• Promote sustainable development by using land more efficiently. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
We urge decision-makers to adopt these reforms promptly. By legalizing non-owner 
occupied ADUs, Cheyenne can take another step toward closing its housing gap and 
preserving the character and livability of our community. 
 
 
____________________________ 
Adele Gardner 
Chair, Mayor’s Taskforce on Affordable Housing 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
 


RE: ADU UDC Amendment 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
Dec 17, 2025 
To Whom It May Concern: 
This letter is being submitted to support changes to local requirements governing owner occupancy 
on properties with Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs).  The Southeast Wyoming Builders Association 
(SEWBA) believes this reform advances our community’s goals around housing affordability and 
supply. 
Cheyenne and Wyoming face a significant housing shortage. According to the WCDA’s 2024 
Housing Needs Assessment, 20,700-38,600 units are needed statewide to meet current and future 
demand, and between 4,386 and 7,266 needed for Laramie County. This shortage drives up prices, 
squeezes families out of homeownership, and increases rent burdens for workers. Without action, 
these pressures will continue to displace residents and strain our local economy. 
Allowing non-owner occupied properties with ADUs aligns with strategies our city has pursued to 
restore affordability, and also aligns with the WCDA’s Statewide Housing Strategic Plan, specifically 
category 3 of the plan: Reduce Regulatory and Land Use Barriers to New Housing Development. 
These homes provide naturally affordable options for families, seniors, and workers, while making 
better use of existing infrastructure. 
Our hope is that these changes will: 
● Encourage development and permitting of ADUs. 
● Expand housing choices for residents at all income levels. 
● Promote sustainable development by using land more efficiently. 
We urge decision-makers to adopt these reforms promptly. By legalizing non-owner occupied ADUs, 
Cheyenne can take another step toward closing its housing gap and preserving the character and 
livability of our community. 
Thank you for your consideration. 
Sincerely, 
Sam Weinstein 
Sam Weinstein, President, SEWBA 
 