 
2101 O’Neil Ave. · Cheyenne · Wyoming  
Phone 307.63 8.438 5  
www.plancheyenne.org  
 
 
MEMO  
TO: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
FROM: Jennifer Corso – Senior Planner, Cheyenne MPO 
DATE: December 30, 2025 
SUBJECT: Professional Services Agreement for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
______________________________________________________________________________ 
 
The Cheyenne MPO is excited to begin the planning process to study the East Allison Rd 
Corridor.  
 
A Request for Qualifications was advertised on the PlanCheyenne website and the Wyoming 
Tribune Eagle on September 20, 2025. We received seven proposals. Stantec was selected as the 
best qualified. 
 
This contract is not-to-exceed the amount of $199,514.44. 
 
The East Allison Road Corridor Study will evaluate roadway, drainage, utility, and multimodal 
needs along East Allison Road in South Cheyenne. The study area extends from South Greeley 
Highway (US 85) to the existing west end of East Allison Road in the Niobrara Industrial Park, a 
total of approximately 0.9 miles. 
 
The study is divided into two phases, with Phase 1 advanced to ~30% design for greater 
accuracy at the US-85 gateway, and Phase 2 delivered at ~10% conceptual level with centerline 
survey. The study will also include a review of a potential roundabout at the East Allison Road & 
Avenue C intersection. 
 
Please reach out to me directly if you have any questions regarding this contract.  I can be reached at 637-
6280 and jcorso@cheyennempo.org. 
 
 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 1 of 21 
City Contract # __________ 
MPO Contract # 187468 
 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
for the 
EAST ALLISON ROAD CORRIDOR STUDY 
 
PREAMBLE 
 
 THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this  _____ day of _____________, 2026, 
by and between the City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization, hereinafter 
referred to as the “MPO”, located at 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 304, Cheyenne, WY 82001, and 
Stantec Consulting Services Inc , hereinafter referred to as “ Consultant”, located at 7000 
Yellowstone Rd Suite 230, Cheyenne, WY 82009. The City of Cheyenne is acting as the agent of 
the MPO for contract administration and as the MPO’s Fiscal Manager in accordance with Contract 
#6111. 
 
AGREEMENT 
In consideration of the mutual covenants and obligations herein expressed, it is agreed by 
and between the parties as follows: 
 
1. SCOPE OF WORK. The Consultant agrees to provide services as described for the above-
mentioned project, in accordance with the Scope of W ork attached hereto as Exhibit A, 
incorporated by reference and expressly made a part hereof. 
 
2. TIME OF PERFORMANCE. The work included in this Scope of Work will be completed 
in accordance with the Project Schedule attached hereto as Exhibit B, incorporated by 
reference and expressly made a part hereof. Any extensions in the project schedule shall be 
agreed upon in writing by the parties. 
 
3. COMPENSATION. In consideration of the services to be performed pursuant to this 
Agreement, the Consultant will bill the MPO and the MPO agrees to pay Consultant a total 
cost-not-to-exceed amount of  one hundred ninety-nine thousand five hundred fourteen 
dollars and 44 cents ($199,514.44), in accordance with the fee schedule provided in Exhibit 
C, which is attached to this Agreement, incorporated by reference, and expressly made a 
part hereof. The amount of all such payments shall be based upon the Consultant’s progress, 
verified by the MPO, in completing the work as described in Exhibits A, B, and C. Final 
payment shall be made following acceptance of the work by the MPO. Original quality 
reproductions of all designs, plans, reports, specifications, drawings, and other services 
rendered by the Consultant shall become the sole property of the MPO and shall be 
delivered to the MPO, immediately upon their preparation to the extent the MPO has 
satisfied its p ayment obligations to the Consultant. The MPO may withhold a portion of 
any payment otherwise due until any claims, disputes, or deficiencies related to the 
Consultant’s work are resolved. 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 2 of 21 
 
4. CONSULTANT RESPONSIBILITY. The Consultant shall be responsible for the 
professional quality, technical accuracy, timely completion of drawings and other services 
rendered by the Consultant and its sub -consultants and shall, without additional 
compensation, promptly remedy and correc t any errors, omissions, or other deficiencies, 
except to the extent that such errors, omissions or other deficiencies arise from the digital 
data created by Cheyenne/Laramie County Cooperative Geographic Information System 
(CLCCGIS). 
 
In providing services under this Agreement, the Consultant shall perform in a manner 
consistent with that degree of care and skill ordinarily exercised by members of the same 
profession currently practicing under similar circumstances. Upon notice to the Consultant 
and by mutual agreement between the parties, the Consultant  will, without additional 
compensation, correct those services not meeting such a standard. 
 
5. GIS MAPS AND DIGITAL DATA. If the Consultant uses any maps, coverages, images, 
or other digital data created by the CLCCGIS for the project specified in Exhibit A, the 
Consultant agrees to return or destroy that information once the project is complete. 
Consultant agrees not to reuse or sell any GIS maps or data that were provided as a 
professional courtesy and to minimize the cost of the project. 
 
6. GIS DATA LIMITATION AND DISCLAIMED LIABILITY . GIS data is collected 
primarily for use by the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County. Any unauthorized use of 
the data is at the risk of the user.  
 
7. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE . In compliance with the Drug -Free Workplace Act of 
November 1988, the City of Cheyenne has established an Alcohol and Controlled 
Substance Policy that pertains to alcohol and drug usage by City employees. All architects, 
engineers, and other consultants under contract with City of Cheyenne, and their employees 
and sub-consultants, are required to comply with the provisions of the City ’s Alcohol and 
Controlled Substance Policy for drug and/or alcohol usage on City property or other sites 
occupied by the Consultant while performing the duties and resp onsibilities of the 
Agreement. It is the responsibility of the Consultant to familiarize themselves with the 
requirements of this policy and to inform all their employees and subconsultants of the 
requirements and ensure their compliance. If the Consultant, their employees, or sub -
consultants are found in violation of this policy, the Agreement may be terminated. 
 
8. INDEMNIFICATION/HOLD HARMLESS. The Consultant agrees to indemnify, hold 
harmless and defend the City from and against any and all liabilities, claims, penalties, 
forfeitures and suits, and the cost and expenses incident thereto, including reasonable 
attorney’s fees, which may hereafter arise as a result of death or bodily injury to any person, 
destruction or damage to any property, contamination of or adverse effects on the 
environment, or any violation of governmental laws, regulations or orders to the ext ent 
caused by (1) the Consultant’s breach of any term or provision of this Agreement; or (2) 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 3 of 21 
any negligent or wrongful act, error or omission by the Consultant, or its employees or sub-
consultants in the performance of this Agreement. The Consultant acknowledges that it 
may incur a financial obligation to the City pursuant to the terms of this paragraph. 
 
9. INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS. The Consultant must provide proof of the following 
insurance coverages: 
 
Commercial General Liability Insurance. For claims arising out of bodily injury, illness 
or death, or from damage to or destruction of property of others, including loss or use 
thereof, with minimum limits of $1,000,000 per occurrence, $2,000,000 aggregate for the 
entire term of the Agreement. 
 
 Business Automobile Insurance. Including owned, non -owned and hired vehicles with 
minimum limits for bodily injury and property damage of $1,000,000 per accident for the 
entire term of the Agreement. 
 
 Workers’ Compensation. Workers’ compensation coverage shall be in effect for the entire 
term of the Agreement, as required by Wyoming law, for all employees or agents providing 
services under this Agreement. Consultant shall provide the City with proof of workers’ 
compensation or employer’s liability insurance coverage. 
 
Professional Liability Insurance . The Consultant shall provide proof of professional 
liability insurance or errors and omissions liability insurance in an amount not less than 
$500,000 to protect the City from any and all claims arising from the Consultant ’s 
negligence in the performance of duties under this Agreement. The City prefers that this 
liability insurance coverage be provided pursuant to an “occurrence” policy.  
 
If this coverage is provided pursuant to a “claims made” policy: 
A. Consultant shall, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, provide the 
City with a certificate of insurance demonstrating that such coverage is or shall be 
in effect at the time the Consultant begins the provision of se rvices under this 
Agreement; 
 
B. In the event the Consultant ’s services extend into a future policy period, the 
Consultant shall, prior to the policy expiration date, provide the City with a new 
certificate of insurance demonstrating that such coverage is or shall be in effect 
during all periods of time that Consult ant will provide ser vices under this 
Agreement; 
 
C. Consultant shall maintain said “claims made” coverage for a period of five (5) years 
following the last date that Consultant has provided services under this Agreement; 
and  
 
D. In the event the Consultant or the insurer terminates “claims made” coverage prior 
to the expiration of the periods provided in subparagraphs a., b., or c. of this 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 4 of 21 
paragraph, the Consultant shall provide to the City advance written notification of 
the termination of said coverage and shall provide the City with an endorsement for 
an extended reporting period (“tail coverage”) which shall be in effect for a period 
of time not less than five (5) years following the last date that Consultant has 
provided services under this Agreement. 
 
 Additional Insurance Information. The Consultant shall name the City of Cheyenne and 
the MPO as an Additional Insured  by endorsement on its insurance policies, with the 
exception of workers’ compensation and professional liability insurance and shall provide 
the City with a copy of the endorsements. 
 
Consultant shall provide the City with certificates of insurance acknowledging the above -
stated coverages prior to beginning any work under this Agreement. 
 
It is understood and agreed that these policies are primary and not contributory. All policies 
required under this Agreement shall be in effect for the duration of the Agreement. It shall 
be an affirmative obligation upon Consultant to immediately notify in writing the city risk 
manager, city clerk, and city attorney of any fact, circumstance, or occurrence that has 
resulted in or may result in the cancellation or substantive cha nge of any insur ance 
coverage required by this Agreement, and failure to do so shall be construed to be a breach 
of this Agreement. 
 
If requested by the City, the Consultant shall provide the City with copies of insurance 
policies and/or policy endorsements listing the City of Cheyenne as an additional insured. 
The City’s failure to request or review such policies, endorsements, or certificates shall not 
affect the City’s rights or Consultant’s obligation hereunder. 
 
Any insurance company providing coverage under this Agreement shall have a minimum 
A. M. Best rating of A- (excellent). 
 
10. MPO REPRESENTATIVE. Prior to commencement of work, the MPO will designate in 
writing an MPO Representative who shall make, within the scope of his/her authority, all 
necessary decisions regarding the project. All requests for contract interpretations, field 
orders, contract modifications, change orders, and other clarification or instruction shall be 
directed to the MPO Representative. 
 
11. MONTHLY REPORT. With every monthly billing, Consultant shall provide the MPO 
Representative with a written statement of the status of the work with respect to the Scope 
of Work, time sheets, and work schedule. Failure to provide the required monthly report 
will delay processing of any payment request until the report is submitted. 
 
12. APPROV AL OF PLANS. The MPO ’s approval of drawings, designs, plans, 
specifications, reports, and incidental work or materials shall not in any way relieve the 
Consultant of responsibility for the technical accuracy of the work. The MPO ’s approval 
or acceptance of, or payment for, any of the services shall not be construed to operate as a 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 5 of 21 
waiver of any of the MPO ’s rights under this Agreement or any of its legal rights under 
statute or common law arising out of the performance of this Agreement. 
 
13. GOVERNMENTAL/SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY. The State of Wyoming, the Wyoming 
Department of Transportation ( WYDOT), the City of Cheyenne, and Laramie County, 
along with their officials and employees, do not waive their sovereign or governmental 
immunity by entering into this Agreement, and the MPO does not waive governmental 
immunity, except to the extent necessary for the parties to pursue a contract action to clarify 
or enforce the written terms of the agreement, and each specifically retains all immunities 
and defenses available to them as sovereigns or governmental entities pursuant to 
Wyo. Stat. § 1-39-101, et seq., and all other state law. Designations of venue, choice of law, 
enforcement actions, and similar provisions should not be constructed as a waiver of 
sovereign or governmental immunity. The parties agree that any ambiguity in this 
Agreement shall not be strictly construed, either against or for either party, except that any 
ambiguity as to governmental or sovereign immunity shall be construed in favor of 
sovereign or governmental immunity.  
 
14. NO GOVERNMENT OBLIGATION TO THIRD PARTIES.  
 
No Obligation by the Federal Government. 
 
A. The Consultant acknowledges and agrees that, notwithstanding any concurrence by 
the Federal Government in or approval of the solicitation or award of the underlying 
contract, absent the express written consent by the Federal Government, the Federal 
Government is not a party to this Agreement and shall not be subject to any 
obligations or liabilities to the Consultant, or any other party (whether or not a party 
to that contract) pertaining to any matter resulting from the underlying contract. 
 
B. The Consultant agrees to include the above clause in each subcontract financed in 
whole or in part with Federal assistance provided by the Federal Transit 
Administration (FTA). It is further agreed that the clause shall not be modified, 
except to identify the sub-consultant who will be subject to its provisions. 
 
15. PROGRAM FRAUD AND FALSE OR FRAUDULENT STATEMENTS AND 
RELATED ACTS. 
 
A. The Consultant acknowledges that the provisions of the Program Fraud Civil 
Remedies Act of 1986, as amended, 31 U.S.C. § 3801, et seq ., and U.S. DOT 
regulations, “Program Fraud Civil Remedies,” 49 CFR Part 31, apply to its actions 
pertaining to this Project. Upon execution of the underlying contract, the Consultant 
certifies or affirms the truthfulness and accuracy of any statement it has made, it 
makes, it may make, or causes to be made, pertaining to the underlying contract or 
the FTA assisted project for  which this contract work is being performed. In 
addition to other penalties that may be applicable, the Consultant further 
acknowledges that if it makes, or causes to be made, a false, fictitious, or fraudulent 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 6 of 21 
claim, statement, submission, or certification, the Federal Government reserves the 
right to impose the penalties of the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986 on 
the Consultant to the extent the Federal Government deems appropriate. 
 
B. The Consultant also acknowledges that if it makes, or causes to be made, a false, 
fictitious, or fraudulent claim, statement, submission, or certification to the Federal 
Government under a contract connected with a project that is financed in whole or 
in part with Federal assistance originally awarded by FTA under the authority of 49 
U.S.C. § 5307, the Government reserves the right to impose the penalties of 18 
U.S.C. § 1001 and 49 U.S.C. § 5307(n)(1) on the Consultant, to the extent the 
Federal Government deems appropriate. 
 
C. The Consultant agrees to include the above two clauses in each sub -contract 
financed in whole or in part with Federal assistance provided by FTA. It is further 
agreed that the clauses shall not be modified, except to identify the sub -consultant 
who will be subject to the provisions. 
 
16. FEDERAL CHANGES.  Consultant shall at all times comply with 49 CFR Part 18 and 
all applicable FTA regulations, policies, procedures , and directives  including, without 
limitation, those listed directly or by reference in the Agreement (Form FTA MA (18), dated 
October 2011) between consultant and FTA, as they may be amended or promulgated from 
time to time d uring the term of this Agreement.  Consultant’s failure to so comply shall 
constitute a material breach of this Agreement. 
 
17. INCORPORATION OF FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (FTA) TERMS. 
FTA Circular 4220.1F 
 
Applicability:  The incorporation of FTA terms applies to all contracts. 
The preceding provisions include, in part, certain Standard Terms and Conditions required 
by DOT, whether or not expressly set forth in the preceding contract provisions. All 
contractual provisions required by DOT, as set forth in FTA Circular 4220.1F, are  hereby 
incorporated by reference. Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, all FTA 
mandated terms shall be deemed to control in the event of a conflict with other provisions 
contained in this Agreement. The Consultant shall not perform any act, fail to perform any 
act, or refuse to comply with any City of Cheyenne requests which would cause City of 
Cheyenne to be in violation of the FTA terms and conditions. 
 
18. PRIV ACY ACT. (5 U.S.C. § 552) 
 
Applicability:  The Federal Privacy Act requirements flow down to each third-party 
Consultant and their contracts at every tier.  
The following requirements apply to the Consultant and its employees that administer any 
system of records on behalf of the Federal Government under any contract: 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 7 of 21 
A. The Consultant agrees to comply with, and assures the compliance of its employees 
with, the information restrictions and other applicable requirements of the Privacy 
Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. § 552a. Among other things, the Consultant agrees to obtain 
the expr ess consent of the Federal Government before the Consultant, or its 
employees operate a system of records on behalf of the Federal Government. The 
Consultant understands that the requirements of the Privacy Act, including the civil 
and criminal penalties for violations of that Act, apply to those individuals involved, 
and that failure to comply with the terms of the privacy Act may result in 
termination of the underlying contract. 
 
B. The Consultant also agrees to include these requirements in each sub -contract to 
administer any system of records on behalf of the Federal Government financed in 
whole or in part with Federal assistance provided by FTA. 
 
19. WYOMING DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION REQUIRED TERMS. 
  
The below General Provisions shall also apply to all subconsultants engaged by the 
Consultant: 
 
A. Administration of Federal Funds.  The Consultant agrees its use of the funds 
awarded herein is subject to the Uniform Administrative Requirements of 2 CFR 
Part 200, et seq.; any additional requirements set forth by the federal funding 
agency; all applicable regulations published in the Cod e of Federal Regulations; 
and other program guidance as provided to it by WYDOT. 
 
B. Amendments. Any changes, modifications, revisions or amendments to this 
Agreement which are mutually agreed upon by the parties to this Agreement shall 
be incorporated by written instrument, executed by all parties to this Agreement. 
 
C. Applicable Law, Rules of Construction, and Venue.  The construction, 
interpretation and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of 
the State of Wyoming without regard to conflicts of law principles. The terms 
“hereof,” “hereunder,” “herein,” and words of similar import, are intended to refer 
to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision or part. The courts 
of the State of Wyoming shall have jurisdiction over this Agreement and the parties. 
The venue shall be the First Judicial District, Laramie County, Wyoming. 
 
D. Assignment Prohibited and Agreement Shall Not be Used as Collateral. Neither 
party shall assign or otherwise transfer any of the rights or delegate any of the duties 
set out in this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party. The 
Consultant shall not use this Agreement, or any portion thereof, for colla teral for 
any financial obligation without the prior written permission of WYDOT. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 8 of 21 
E. Auditing and Accounting. The Consultant shall make available to the Cheyenne 
MPO their accounting records for progress and post -performance audits when 
deemed necessary by the Cheyenne MPO. 
 
F. Availability of Funds.  Each payment obligation of the Cheyenne MPO is 
conditioned upon the availability of government funds which are appropriated or 
allocated for the payment of this obligation and which may be limited for any 
reason including, but not limited to, congressiona l, legislative, gubernatorial, or 
administrative action. If funds are not allocated and available for the continued 
performance of the Agreement, the Agreement may be terminated by the Cheyenne 
MPO at the end of the period for which the funds are available. The Cheyenne MPO 
shall notify the Consultant at the earliest possible time of the services which will or 
may be affected by a shortage of funds. No penalty shall accrue to the Cheyenne 
MPO in the event this provision is exercised, a nd the Cheyenne MPO shall not be 
obligated or liable for any future payments due or for any damages as a result of 
termination under this section. 
This provision shall not be construed to permit the Cheyenne MPO to terminate this 
Agreement to acquire similar services from another party. 
 
G. Independent Consultant.  The Consultant shall function as an independent 
consultant for the purposes of this Agreement. The Consultant shall assume sole 
responsibility for any debts or liabilities that may be incurred by the Consultant in 
fulfilling the terms of this Agreement. N othing in this Agreement shall be 
interpreted as authorizing the Consultant or its agents or employees to act as an 
agent or representative of or on behalf of the MPO or to incur any obligation of any 
kind on the behalf of the MPO. 
 
H. Notices. All notices arising out of, or from, the provisions of this Agreement shall 
be in writing either by regular mail or delivery in person at the addresses provided 
under this Agreement. 
 
I. Prior Approval. This Agreement shall not be binding upon either party, no services 
shall be performed under the terms of this Agreement, and the Wyoming State 
Auditor shall not draw warrants for payment on this Agreement until this 
Agreement has been reduced to writing, a pproved as to form by the Office of the 
Attorney General, and approved by the Governor of the State of Wyoming, or his 
designee, if required by Wyo. Stat. § 9-2-1016(b)(iv). 
 
J. Severability. Should any portion of this Agreement be judicially determined to be 
illegal or unenforceable, the remainder of the Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect, and either party may renegotiate the terms affected by the severance. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 9 of 21 
K. Taxes. The Consultant agrees to pay all valid taxes, excises, license fees, permit 
fees, bills, debts and obligations incurred by in connection with its operations under 
this Agreement. 
 
L. Third-Party Beneficiary Rights. The parties do not intend to create in any other 
individual or entity the status of third -party beneficiary, and this Agreement shall 
not be construed so as to create such status. The rights, duties, and obligations 
contained in this Agreement shall opera te only between the parties to this 
Agreement and shall inure solely to the benefit of the parties to this Agreement. The 
provisions of this Agreement are intended only to assist the parties in determining 
and performing their obligations under this Agreement. 
 
20. FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
The below General Provisions shall also apply to all subconsultants engaged by the 
Consultant. 
 
A. ASSUMPTION OF RISK .  The Consultant shall assume the risk of any loss of 
state or federal funding, either administrative or program dollars, due to the 
Consultant’s failure to comply with state or federal requirements. The Cheyenne 
MPO shall notify the Consultant of any state or federal determination of 
noncompliance. 
 
B. ACCESS TO RECORDS.  The Cheyenne MPO and its representatives shall have 
access to any books, documents, papers, electronic data, and records of the 
Consultant which are pertinent to this Agreement. 
 
C. BREACH OF AGREEMENT.  The Consultant agrees to provide all professional 
services as required by the terms, conditions, provisions, and obligations of this 
Agreement. Failure by the Consultant to perform as required by the terms, 
conditions, provisions, or obligations of this Agreement shall constitute a breach of 
contract. The Cheyenne MPO shall consider a Consultant’s failure to perform as a 
material breach of contract when it can be determined that the terms, conditions, 
provisions, or obligations of the Agreement will not be completed and the Cheyenne 
MPO will incur additional cost, lost opportunity, or additional time to obtain the 
same or equal Agreement deliverables. A material breach may result in remedies 
as the Cheyenne MPO deems appropriate, which may include, but are not limited 
to: 
 
(i) Termination as provided in SECTION 20 – FEDERAL GENERAL 
PROVISIONS, SECTION V – TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT; 
(ii) Withholding monthly progress payments; 
(iii) Assessing damages/sanctions; 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 10 of 21 
(iv) Disqualifying the Consultant from future solicitations; and/or 
(v) Legal remedy. 
 
D. LIMITATIONS ON LOBBYING ACTIVITIES .  By signing this Agreement, 
the Consultant certifies and agrees that, in accordance with P.L. 101-121, payments 
made from federal appropriated funds shall not be utilized by the Consultant or its 
subconsultants in connection with lobbing member(s) of Congre ss, or any federal 
agency in connection with the award of a federal appropriated fund, Agreement, 
cooperative agreement or loan. 
 
E. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS .  The Consultant shall keep informed of and 
comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations in the 
performance of this Agreement. 
 
F. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.   
 
(i) The Consultant shall not engage in providing consultation or representation 
of clients, agencies, or firms which may constitute a conflict of interest 
which may result in a disadvantage to the Cheyenne MPO or a disclosure 
which may adversely affect the interests of the Cheyenne MPO . The 
Consultant shall notify the Cheyenne MPO  of any potential or actual 
conflicts of interest, including financial or other personal interests, arising 
during the course of the Consultant’s performance under this Agreement. 
This Agreement may be terminated in the event a conflict of interest arises. 
Termination of this Agreement will be subject to a mutual settlement of 
accounts. In the event this Agreement is terminated under this provision, the 
Consultant shall take steps to ensure that all files, evidence, evaluations, and 
data are provide to the Cheyenne MPO or its designee. This provision does 
not prohibit or affect the Consultant’s ability to engage in consultations, 
evaluations, or representation under agreement with other agencies, firms, 
facilities, or attorneys so long as no conflict exists. 
 
(ii) A conflict of interest may be considered a material breach of this 
Agreement.  In the event the Agreement is terminated under this provision, 
the Consultant shall take steps to insure that all files, evidence, evaluation, 
and data are provided to the Cheyenne MPO or its designee. 
 
(iii) A material breach under this section may result in remedies as provided in 
SECTION 20 – FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS , SECTION C – 
BREACH OF AGREEMENT. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 11 of 21 
G. DETERMINATION OF ALLOWABLE COSTS.  The Consultant shall assure, 
prior to submittal of periodic progress payments, that all costs are in accordance 
with federal cost principals as provided in 48 CFR 31. Failure by the Consultant to 
carry out these requirements may be a material breach of this Agreement, which 
may result in remedies as provided in SECTION 20 – FEDERAL GENERAL 
PROVISIONS, SECTION C – BREACH OF AGREEMENT. 
 
H. DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE ASSURANCE .  The 
Consultant or subconsultant shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color, 
national origin, or sex in the performance of this Agreement. The Consultant shall 
carry out applicable requirements of 49 CFR 26 in all subconsultant contract 
documents. Failure by the Consultant to carry out these requirements may be a 
material breach of this Agreement, which may result in remedies as provided in 
SECTION 20 – FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION C – BREACH 
OF AGREEMENT. 
 
I. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACTS.  The Consultant agrees all activities under 
this Agreement shall comply  with the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the 
National Environmental Policy Act, and other related provisions of federal 
environmental protection laws, rules or regulations. 
 
J. ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.  The Consultant shall be responsible for assuring 
that professional services provided under this Agreement are accurate and without 
mistakes or omissions. The Consultant shall endeavor to perform services in a 
manner consistent with that degree of care and skill ordinarily exercised by 
members of the same profession currently practicing under similar circumstances. 
The Cheyenne MPO shall notify the Consultant at the earliest possible time of the 
professional services which require corrective action and the Consultant, by mutual 
agreement with the Cheyenne MPO  and without additional compensation, shall 
correct those services.  Failure by the Consultant to carry out these requirements 
may be considered, in the sole discretion of the Cheyenne MPO, a material breach 
of this Agreement, which may result in remedies as provided in SECTION 20 – 
FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS , SECTION C – BREACH OF 
AGREEMENT. 
 
K. HUMAN TRAFFICKING.  As required by 22 U.S.C. § 7104(g), and 2 CFR Part 
175, this Agreement may be terminated without penalty if a private entity that 
receives funds under this Agreement: 
 
(i) Engages in severe forms of trafficking in persons during the period of time 
that the award is in effect; 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 12 of 21 
(ii) Procures a commercial sex act during the period of time that the award is 
in effect; or 
(iii) Uses force labor in the performance of the award or subawards under the 
award. 
 
L. KICKBACKS.  The Consultant certifies and warrants that no gratuities, kickbacks, 
or contingency fees were paid in connection with this Agreement, nor were any 
fees, commissions, gifts, or other considerations made contingent upon the award 
of this Agreement. If the Co nsultant breaches or violates this warranty, the 
Cheyenne MPO may, at its discretion, terminate this Agreement without liability to 
the Cheyenne MPO , or deduct  from the agreed upon price or consideration, or 
otherwise recover, the full amount of any commission, percentage, brokerage, or 
contingency fee. 
 
M. MANDATORY DISCLOSURES .  The Consultant shall disclose, in a timely 
manner, in writing, to the Cheyenne MPO all violations of federal criminal law 
involving fraud, bribery, or gratuity violations potentially affecting this award. 
Failure to make required disclosures can result in remedies for non -compliance 
including suspension or debarment. 
 
N. MONITORING ACTIVITIES .  The Cheyenne MPO  shall have the right to 
monitor all activities related to this Agreement that are performed by the Consultant 
or its subconsultants. This shall include, but not be limited to, the right to make site 
inspections at any time and with reasonable notice; to bring experts and consultants 
on site to examine or evaluate completed work or work in progress; to examine the 
books, ledgers, documents, papers, and records pertinent to this Agreement; and to 
observe personnel in every phase of performance of the Agreement-related work. 
 
O. NO FINDER’S FEES.  No finder’s fee, employment agency fee, or other such fee 
related to the procurement of this Agreement, shall be paid by either party. 
 
P. NONDISCRIMINATION.  The Consultant shall comply with the Civil Rights 
Act of 1964, the Wyoming Fair Employment Practices Act (Wyo. Stat. § 27-9-105, 
et seq.), the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), 42 U.S.C. § 12101, et seq., 
and the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 and any properly promulgated rules and 
regulations thereto and shall not discriminate against any individual on the grounds 
of age, sex, color, race, religion, national origin, or disability in connection with the 
performance under this Agreement. Federal law requires the Consultant to include 
all relevant provisions of this Agreement in every subconsultant awarded over ten 
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) so that such provisions are binding on each 
subconsultant. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 13 of 21 
Q. OWNERSHIP AND RETURN OF DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION .  
The Cheyenne MPO  is the official custodian and owns all documents, data 
compilations, reports, computer programs, photographs, data, and other work 
provided to or produced by the Consultant in the performance of this Agreement. 
Upon termination of services, for any reason , the Consultant agrees to return all 
such original and derivative information and documents to the Cheyenne MPO in a 
useable format. In the case of electronic transmission, such transmission shall be 
secured. The return of information by any other means shall be by a parcel service 
that utilizes tracking numbers. 
 
R. PATENT OR COPYRIGHT PROTECTION, AND RIGHTS IN DATA .  The 
Consultant recognizes that certain proprietary matters or techniques may be subject 
to patent, trademark, copyright, license, or other similar restrictions, and warrants 
that no work performed by the Consultant or its subconsultants shall violate any 
such restriction. The Consultant shall defend and indemnify the Cheyenne MPO for 
any infringement or alleged infringement of such patent, trademark, copyright, 
license, or other restrictions. 
 
Copyrighting or other exclusions placed on any documents or materials developed 
by the Consultant, its sublets, agents or assigns under this Agreement are 
prohibited. 
 
Data produced, furnished, acquired, or used in meeting the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement shall be available to the Cheyenne MPO , WYDOT and/or the 
federal funding agency with unlimited rights. Data means all recorded information, 
regardless of form, to include both technical – scientific or technical nature - and 
computer software information. It does not include information relate d to 
administration of the Agreement such as financial, cost or pricing, or management 
information. Unlimited rights mea ns that the Cheyenne MPO , State or federal 
agency has the right to use, disclose, reproduce, and distribute the data in any 
manner and for any purpose, and to permit others to also have unlimited rights. 
Meanings and uses described in SECTION P – NONDISCRIMINATION are 
superseded and/or supplemented by 48 CFR 52.227-14. 
 
S. PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION.  The Consultant shall endorse, if required 
by law, plans and reports prepared under this Agreement, and shall affix thereto his 
or her seal of professional registration, showing that he or she is licensed to practice 
in the State of Wyoming. 
 
T. PUBLICITY.  Any publicity given to the projects, program or services provided 
herein, including, but not limited to, notices, information, pamphlets, press releases, 
research, reports, signs, and similar public notices in whatever form, prepared by 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 14 of 21 
or for the Consultant and related to the services and work to be performed under 
this Agreement, shall identify the Cheyenne MPO , WYDOT, and the federal 
funding agency as the sponsoring agencies and shall not be released without prior 
written approval of the Cheyenne MPO. 
 
U. SUSPENSION AND DEBARMENT.  By signing this Agreement, the Consultant 
certifies that neither it nor its principals/agents are presently debarred, suspended, 
proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from 
participation in this transaction or from receiving federal financial or non-financial 
assistance, nor are any of the participants involved in the execution of this 
Agreement suspended, debarred, or voluntarily excluded by any federal department 
or agency in accordance with Executive Order 12549 (Debarment and Suspension), 
2 CFR Part 180, or are on the debarred, or otherwise ineligible,  vendors lists 
maintained by the federal government. Further, the Consultant agrees to notify the 
Cheyenne MPO by certified mail should it or any of its principals/agents become 
ineligible for payment, debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded from receiving 
federal funds during the term of this Agreement. Failure by the Consultant to carry 
out these requirements may be a material breach of this Agr eement, which may 
result in remedies as provided in SECTION 20 – FEDERAL GENERAL 
PROVISIONS, SECTION C – BREACH OF AGREEMENT. 
 
V. TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT.  The Cheyenne MPO may terminate all or 
part of the Agreement, without cause, upon thirty (30) days written notice. The 
Agreement may be terminated by the Cheyenne MPO immediately for cause if the 
Cheyenne MPO determines that the Consultant has failed to perform as required by 
the terms, conditions, provisions, or obligations of the Agreement – Termination 
for Cause or Breach – or the Cheyenne MPO determines that termination is in the 
public’s best interest – Termination on Public’s Behalf/Convenience. In either 
event, compensation shall be made to the Consultant based upon the progress of the 
work performed prior to termination. 
 
Work performed shall be defined as the deliverables specified in the Agreement 
and accepted by the Cheyenne MPO, and not the labor hours billed. The ownership 
of the work completed or partially completed at the time of such termination or 
abandonment shall be retained by the Cheyenne MPO. 
 
The Cheyenne MPO  shall notify the Consultant, in writing, of Agreement 
termination. 
 
W. TITLE VI ASSURANCES FOR NON -DISCRIMINATION.  The Consultant 
agrees to comply with the requirements of the nondiscrimination clauses as 
described in the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Order 1050.2. 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 15 of 21 
 
X. ADMINISTRATION OF FEDERAL FUNDS.  The Consultant agrees its use of 
the funds awarded herein is subject to the Uniform Administrative Requirements 
of 2 CFR Part 200,  et seq.; any additional requirements set forth by the federal 
funding agency; all applicable regulations published in the Code of Federal 
Regulations; and other program guidance as provided to it by the Cheyenne MPO. 
 
Y. COPYRIGHT LICENSE AND PATENT RIGHTS .  The Consultant 
acknowledges that the federal grantor, the State of Wyoming, WYDOT, and the 
Cheyenne MPO reserve a royalty -free, nonexclusive, unlimited, and irrevocable 
license to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use, and to authorize others to use, for 
federal and state government purposes: (1) the copyright in any work developed 
under the Agreement; and ( 2) any rights of copyright to which the Consultant 
purchases ownership using funds awarded under this Agreement. Th e Consultant 
must consult with the Cheyenne MPO regarding any patent rights that arise from, 
or are purchases with, funds awarded under this Agreement. 
 
Z. FEDERAL AUDIT REQUIREMENTS.  The Consultant agrees that if it expends 
an aggregate amount in excess of the amount set forth in 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart 
F in federal awards during its fiscal year, it must undergo an organization -wide 
financial and compliance single audit. The Consultant  aggress to comply with the 
audit requirements of the U.S. General Accounting Office Government Auditing 
Standards and Audit Requirements of 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F. If findings are 
made which cover any part of this Agreement, the Consultant shall provide one (1) 
copy of the audit report to WYDOT and to the Cheyenne MPO and require the 
release of the audit report by its auditor be held until adjusting entries are disclosed 
and made to the Cheyenne MPO’s records. 
 
AA. NON-SUPPLANTING CERTIFICATION.  The Consultant herby affirms that 
federal appropriated funds shall be used to supplement exiting funds, and shall not 
replace (supplant) funds that have been appropriated for the same purpose. The 
Consultant should be able to document that any reduction in non-federal resources 
occurred for reasons other than the receipt or expected receipt of federal funds 
under this Agreement. 
 
BB. PROGRAM INCOME .  The Consultant shall not deposit federal appropriated 
funds in an interest bearing account without prior approved of WYDOT. Any 
income attributable to the appropriated funds distributed under this Agreement 
must be used to increase the scope of the program  or returned to the Cheyenne 
MPO. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 16 of 21 
CC. APPLICABILITY OF APPENDIX II TO 2 CFR PART 200 .  This Agreement 
has been funded, in whole or in part, with Award of Federal funds and is bound by 
the federal contract provisions required by the Uniform Guidance Appendix II of 2 
CFR Part 200 (the Federal Contract Provisions), incorporated herein by this 
reference. In the event of a conflict between the Federal General Previsions section 
of this Agreement, or any attachments or exhibits incorporated herein, and the 
Federal Contract Provisions, the Federal Contract Provisions shall control. Failure 
to comply with the Federal Contract Provisions shall constitute an event of default 
under this Agreement. If such a default remains uncured five (5) calendar days 
following the termination of a thirty (30) -day prior written notice period, the 
Cheyenne MPO may terminate this Agreement. This remedy will be in addition to 
any other remedy available to the State of Wyoming, WYDOT, and the Cheyenne 
MPO under this Agreement, at law, or in equity. 
 
(In addition to the Federal General Provisions listed above, additional provisions 
available from WYDOT shall be used in all consultant contracts which utilize 
Federal Transit Administration funding.) 
 
DD. CONSULTANT PAYMENTS AND RETAINAGE. Periodic progress payments 
will be made for work satisfactorily completed based on invoice submittals to the 
Cheyenne MPO. 
 
All agreements shall include provisions that require the consultant to make prompt 
payment to subconsultants within thirty (30) calendar days from receipt of payment 
from the Cheyenne MPO (49 CFR 26.29). These provisions will advise the 
consultant to be prepared, if requested, to provide documentation that payment has 
been made for work satisfactorily completed by a subconsultant.  These provisions 
will also notify the consultant that failure to make prompt payment may be 
addressed by the Cheyenne MPO as presented in the written procedures in 
SECTION 21 – BREACH OF AGREEMENT. 
 
The Cheyenne MPO may withhold retainage from payments, including final 
payment, if specified in the agreement. 
 
EE. AGREEMENT ADMINISTRATION .  The agreement for consultant services 
will identify the representative for the Cheyenne MPO as the primary contact 
through which the consultant will coordinate all phases of agreement work, terms 
and conditions. The Cheyenne MPO representative will: 
 
(i) Monitor the consultant’s work and acceptability of work, in compliance 
with the agreement. 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 17 of 21 
(ii) Monitor the consultant’s work progress – work performed versus agreement 
completion date – in compliance with the agreement. 
 
(iii) Ensure the consultant’s labor hours and fees are in accordance with the 
agreement and the percent of the contract total being invoiced is 
commensurate with the progress of the work. 
 
(iv) Address consultant correspondence and resolve administrative issues. 
 
(v) Monitor the consultant and subconsultant(s) for compliance, if required by 
the Agreement. 
 
(vi) Administer breach of agreement, when required, consistent with procedures 
presented in below SECTION 21 – BREACH OF AGREEMENT. Consult 
with the WYDOT grant administrator before initiating procedures leading 
to breach of agreement. 
 
(vii) Close-out agreement when all work deliverables have been accepted and all 
consultant billings have been accepted. 
 
The Cheyenne MPO will maintain a correspondence file for each consultant 
services agreement, documenting all aspects of the selection, negotiation, and 
administration processes. The Cheyenne MPO will retain such records for at least 
three (3) years following agreement completion or termination. 
 
21. BREACH OF AGREEMENT 
 
A. Administrative Written Procedures .  Consultant agreements will incorporate 
Federal General Provisions regarding breach of agreement consistent with 23 CFR 
172 and 2 CFR 200. These Regulations require written procedures to address 
contractual, legal, and administrative remedies including sanc tions and penalties 
where consultants breach agreement terms, conditions, provisions, or obligations. 
For purposes of these written procedures, the Agreement terms, conditions, 
provisions, or obligations will be referred to as Agreement Services. 
 
Numerous Federal General Provisions will be administered using these written 
procedures. For purposes of administering consultant agreements, breach of 
agreement may result when analyzing a consultant’s professional services under 
any of the following Federal General Provisions: 
 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 18 of 21 
SECTION 20 – FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
SECTION C.  BREACH OF AGREEMENT 
SECTION F.  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST  
SECTION G.  DETERMINATION OF ALLOWABLE COSTS 
SECTION H.  DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE ASSURANCE 
SECTION J.  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS 
SECTION K.  HUMAN TRAFFICKING 
SECTION U.  SUSPENSION AND DEBARMENT 
 
The consultant’s responsibility to make prompt payment to subconsultants will be 
administered through these written procedures, as required by SECTION DD – 
CONSULTANT PAYMENTS AND RETAINAGE and the consultant agreement. 
 
B. Contractual Remedy.  Contractual remedy is provided when the above provisions 
are physically incorporated, or incorporated by reference, into an executed 
Agreement. Additionally, contractual remedy requires the physical incorporation 
of SECTION 2 0 – FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION V – 
TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT. 
 
C. Legal Remedy .  Legal remedy is provided by the physical incorporation of 
SECTION 2 0, FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION E – 
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS and enforcement of the Agreement as governed by 
the laws of the State of Wyoming. 
 
D. Administrative Procedures, Sanctions, and Penalties.  Cheyenne MPO concerns 
with consultant performance and/or adherence to Agreement Services will most 
often be resolved through the coordination and resolution efforts as outline in 
SECTION EE – AGREEMENT ADMINISTRATION  of this document.  The 
authorized representative/ primary contact of the Cheyenne MPO should document 
all administrative issues and subsequent resolutions, from start to completion of the 
Agreement. 
 
There may be an occurrence when a cooperative and acceptable resolution cannot 
be reached between the Cheyenne MPO and the Consultant. At those occurrences, 
the Cheyenne MPO will typically make the determination that the Consultant has 
failed to perform Agreement-required acceptable work, has failed to progress in the 
performance of Agreement Services, or has not and will not comply with General 
Provisions. When that determination concludes that the Agreement Services cannot 
be completed and the Cheyenne MPO will incur additional cost, lost opportunity, 
or additional time to obtain the same or equal Agreement deliverables, the threshold 
for a material breach of agreement has been reached and will invoke SECTION 20, 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 19 of 21 
FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION 21 – BREACH OF 
AGREEMENT and the resultant remedies, including SECTION 20, FEDERAL 
GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION V – TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT. 
 
Any Cheyenne MPO  determination that the Consultant has failed to perform 
Agreement-required acceptable work, has failed to progress in the performance of 
Agreement Services, or has not and will not comply with General Provisions will 
need to be supported by the Cheyenne MPO documentation of monitoring activities 
as allowed by SECTION 20, FEDERAL GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION N 
– MONITORING ACTIVITIES. Issues concerning the Consultant’s billing of 
allowable costs should be evaluated in accordance with SECTION 20, FEDERAL 
GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION B – ACCESS TO RECORDS. 
 
The threshold for a material breach of agreement requires that the Consultant has 
failed to perform Agreement Services and that the Cheyenne MPO has or will incur 
additional cost, lost opportunity, or additional time to obtain the same or equal 
Agreement deliverables. Both represent a high threshold to assure an acceptable 
outcome and, as a result, the Cheyenne MPO representative through monitoring 
activities must identify and document unresolved issues early in the Agreement, 
before either the Consultant or the Cheyenne MPO has incurred substantial cost or 
time. All unresolved issues should be promptly addressed, either reaching 
resolution, arrivi ng at reasonable penalties/sanctions, or concluding breach of 
agreement with the resultant remedies, including SECTION 2 0, FEDERAL 
GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION V – TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT. 
 
Penalties and/or sanctions typically available to the Cheyenne MPO  would be 
structured as 1) compensatory damages, 2) specific performance, or 3) termination. 
 
Damages, based on additional cost or time incurred by the Cheyenne MPO, could 
be quantified and pursued. Damages, based on lost opportunity incurred by the 
Cheyenne MPO, may be more difficult to quantify. Lost opportunity could include 
Cheyenne MPO delays in the delivery of supplemental work or successor 
agreements for work , or delay in the year of project construction and the related 
increased construction costs. Other lost opportunities may be identified and 
quantified. 
 
Specific performance would require the Consultant to pursue Agreement Services, 
with adjustment to allowable costs. Specific performance would be used as a 
remedy, either prior to or for breach of agreement, if the work required by the 
Agreement required special expertise, is an emergency, or is only available from a 
single or restricted number of firms. In those cases, damages would not suffice to 
place the Cheyenne MPO in as good a position as it would have been had the breach 
not occurred. 
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 20 of 21 
 
Termination of the Agreement is presented in SECTION 2 0, FEDERAL 
GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION V – TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT. 
The Cheyenne MPO may terminate the Agreement, and either pursue restitution or 
not pursue restitution. Restitution, as a remedy, means that the Cheyenne MPO is 
put back in the position it was in prior to the breach; without restitution, the 
Agreement is terminated with both the Consultant and the Cheyenne MPO  no 
longer under any Agreement obligation. 
 
22. DEFAULT. Each and every term and condition in this Agreement shall be deemed to be a 
material element of the Agreement. In the event either party should fail or refuse to perform 
according to the terms of this Agreement, such party may be declared in default. 
 
23. ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.  In the event the Consultant fails to strictly perform in 
accordance with this Agreement, the MPO may elect to correct the deficiencies and charge 
the Consultant. In the event of default of any of the conditions by either party which shall 
require the party not in default to commence legal or equitable action against the defaulting 
party each party shall bear its own costs and expenses, including without limitation, 
attorney’s fees.  
 
24. ENTIRETY OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement consisting of  twenty-one (21) pages, 
Exhibit A consisting of eight (8) pages, Exhibit B consisting of one (1) page, and Exhibit C 
consisting of two (2) pages respectively, for a total of thirty-two (32) pages; and the Federal 
Contract Provisions, represent the entire and integrated Agreement between the parties and 
shall supersede all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, whether written or 
oral. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency betwe en the language of this Agreement 
and the language of any attachment or document incorporated by reference, the language 
of this Agreement shall control  this matter. Time is of the essence hereof.  Any timing 
extension shall be approved in writing by both parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[SIGNATURES ON FOLLOWING PAGE] 
  
 
Professional Services Agreement 
for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Page 21 of 21 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties to this Agreement, through their duly authorized 
representatives, have executed this Agreement on the days and dates set out below and certify that 
they have read, understood, and knowingly and voluntarily agreed to the term s and conditions of 
this Agreement. This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be 
deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
 
 
      Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization  
 
      By: ______________________________________ 
       Patrick J. Collins, Chairman 
       MPO Policy Committee 
 
      Date: _____________________________________ 
 
 
 
      City of Cheyenne 
              
      By: ______________________________________ 
(SEAL)                      Patrick Collins, Mayor 
 
Attest:____________________________ Date: _____________________________________ 
 Kylie Soden, City Clerk 
 
 
Consultant 
 
By: ______________________________________ 
 
 
Print Name: _______________________________ 
 
 
                                                                        Date: _____________________________________ 
 
 
 
  
 
Stantec Consulting Services Inc. 
7000 Yellowtail Road, Suite 230 
Cheyenne  WY   82 009  
 
December 4, 2025 
Christopher Yaney 
Director 
Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Room 304 
Cheyenne, WY 82001 
RE: East Allison Road Corridor Study 
  
Dear Christopher, 
Stantec is pleased to provide the Scope of Work associated with professional services to complete the 
above referenced project. Also see the attached AVI Proposal for additional Scope of Work associated with 
this project. 
BACKGROUND 
In support of the East Allison Road Reconstruction Project (South Greeley Highway to Avenue C) identified 
in the City’s 2026-2029 Transportation Improvement Program for fiscal year 2027, the Cheyenne MPO is 
conducting a corridor study to analyze multimodal mobility, traffic demand, safety, stormwater drainage, 
access management, and roadway infrastructure for the corridor.  
The corridor will be evaluated in three (3) segments which will each have distinct improvement strategies 
and will be addressed independently as part of the overall corridor strategy: 
Segment 1:  East Allison Road from South Greely Hig hway (US 85) east to Avenue C. 
Segment 2:  East Allsion Road from Avenue C east to  the current west end of the improved Allison Road 
in Niobrara Industrial Park 
Segment 3:  Existing Allison Road section from a cu l-de-sac on the west end of Allison Road in the 
Niobrara Industrial Park, connecting to College Drive (WYO 212). Only the intersection of 
Allison Road and Energy Drive and Allsion Road and College Drive will be analyzed for LOS. 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ANALYSIS 
Stantec will review the relevant existing studies and development actions and make recommendations that 
incorporate and remain aligned with these studies. Plans, reports, and data that are relevant to this study 
include:  
• Existing traffic volumes 
• Existing operational data 
• Existing safety data (Crash data from the City and  WYDOT) 
• Pavement conditions 
"EXHIBIT A"
December 4, 2025 
Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization 
Page 2 of 5 
Reference: East Allison Road Corridor Study 
 
  
 
 
• Existing roadway geometry 
• Existing surface drainage patterns 
• City of Cheyenne Unified Development Code 
• Laramie County Land Use Regulations 
• Connect 2050 Long-Range Transportation Plan, Cheye nne MPO 2025-2026 
https://www.plancheyenne.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/Connect-2050_Draft-Final-
Report_10.24.2025.pdf  
• Safe Streets for All Comprehensive Safety Plan, Ch eyenne MPO 2025-2026 
• Safe Routes to School, Cheyenne MPO 2025 https://www.plancheyenne.org/wp-
content/uploads/2025/09/01-Cheyenne-SRTS-08152025-REDUCED.pdf  
• Transportation Improvement Program 2026-2029, Chey enne MPO 2025 
https://www.plancheyenne.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/THE-TIP_26_29.pdf  
• Available ArcGIS electronic data 
STORMWATER DRAINAGE NEEDS 
Utilizing PCSWMM, Stantec will assess the existing surface drainage and flooding issues along the 
corridor. Stantec will use the information from this assessment to identify and recommend two (2) 
stormwater outfall locations to discharge into Allison Draw. The right-of-way impacts and construction 
feasibility for recommended drainage infrastructure will be addressed as part of this task. 
PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT 
We will develop and conduct a public involvement campaign involving residents, landowners, developers 
and project stakeholders to obtain public input. We will follow the Cheyenne MPO Public Participation Plan 
in addition to all items listed below.  
• Conduct stakeholder meetings to gain perspective a nd obtain feedback. 
• Look for Steering Committee involvement for guidan ce throughout the project. 
• Provide digital copies of the draft and final plan s for review on the Cheyenne MPO webpage. 
• Hold public meetings during a minimum of two (2) p hases of the project, early in the process, and 
after a preliminary report has been drafted for public involvement. As part of this process we will 
provide an open public comment period to solicit input both at the meeting and for a minimum of 
two (2) weeks thereafter. 
MEETING REQUIREMENTS 
1. Kickoff meeting with Project Steering Committee (virtual) 
2. Monthly coordination call with Project Steering Committee (virtual) 
"EXHIBIT A"
December 4, 2025 
Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization 
Page 3 of 5 
Reference: East Allison Road Corridor Study 
 
  
 
 
3. Pre-public meeting No. 1 to review public meetin g content with Steering Committee (virtual) 
4. Public Meeting No. 1 (in person) 
5. Pre-public meeting No. 2 to review public meetin g content with Steering Committee (virtual) 
6. Public Meeting No. 2 (in person) 
7. Presentation to MPO Technical Advisory Committee  (virtual) 
8. Presentation to MPO Policy Committee (virtual) 
9. Presentation to Laramie County Planning Commissi on (in person or virtual) 
10. Presentation to Laramie County Commissioners (i n person or virtual) 
CONCEPTUAL ROADWAY DESIGN OPTIONS 
As part of this task Stantec will evaluate multimodal options such as sidewalk, bike lanes and shared-use 
paths, access management strategies, safety and capacity improvements, and drainage design options for 
surface conveyance and outfalls. Stantec assumes no more than two (2) alternatives associated with the 
conceptual road design task will be completed. 
Segment 1:  30% preliminary design package to inclu de roadway alignment, preliminary drainage and 
utility design, right-of-way strip maps, multimodal facilities and alternatives for the US-
85/East Allson Road intersection and the Avenue C/East Allison Road intersection. 
The 30% design package will include:  
- Proposed horizontal and vertical alignments (WB-6 7 Design Vehicle)  
- Proposed roadway typical sections  
- Grading quantities (unclassified excavation and t opsoil)  
- Hydrologic Analysis (10 year – 2 hour storm & 100  year – 2 hour storm) and subsequent 
hydraulics design (10 year Minor Event & 100 year Major Event (operational evaluation)) 
- Deliverables for the 30% Design will be in 11” x 17” PDF format and include: 
Title Sheet 
Typical Roadway Sections 
Plan & Profile Sheets 
Storm drainage design sheets 
Preliminary Earthwork Quantities 
Traffic Tech Memo 
Drainage Tech Memo 
Segment 2:  10% concept design package including ce nterline survey, conceptual roadway layout, 
multimodal connections, drainage strategy, and tie-ins to existing the Allison Road in the 
Niobrara Industrial Park area. 
The 10% design package will include:  
"EXHIBIT A"
December 4, 2025 
Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization 
Page 4 of 5 
Reference: East Allison Road Corridor Study 
 
  
 
 
- Proposed horizontal and vertical alignments (WB-6 7 Design Vehicle)  
- Proposed roadway typical sections  
- Deliverables for the 10% Design will be in 11” x 17” PDF format and include: 
Title Sheet 
Typical Roadway Sections 
Plan & Profile Sheets 
Segment 3:  Analyze the Level of Service (LOS) for the intersections of Allison Road and Energy Drive 
and Allison Road and College Drive. No design options will be completed for this section. 
PLANNING LEVEL COST ESTIMATES 
After the Concept Roadway Design Options are vetted, Stantec will complete planning level cost estimates 
for each option. Stantec will utilize bid tabs for recently completed projects in and around Cheyenne from 
both the City of Cheyenne and WYDOT. 
DELIVERABLES 
Specific deliverables are expected to include the following:  
1. Complete East Allison Road Corridor Study report  with plans for each segment as discussed 
above.  
2. Displays for staff, steering and/or public meeti ngs including maps, boards, handouts, surveys, and 
sign-in sheets. These will be available as electronic copies to the MPO to review at a minimum of 4 
business days prior to meetings. 
3. Summary of all public meetings and steering comm ittee meetings to be produced within two weeks 
after closing the public survey for each event. 
4. A memo document will be included with every invo ice, including a summary of work completed 
during that period, anticipated tasks for the next month and any impacts to the schedule. 
5. Electronic copies of all documents, images, phot os, shapefiles, maps, draft and final plans. 
6. Two (2) hard copies of the completed plan. 
ASSUMPTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS: 
1. It is assumed that all advertisement fees and ot her associated advertisement costs will be invoiced 
directly to the Cheyenne MPO and is not included in our fee estimate provided for the above scope 
of work. 
  
"EXHIBIT A"
December 4, 2025 
Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization 
Page 5 of 5 
Reference: East Allison Road Corridor Study 
 
  
 
 
We greatly appreciate this opportunity and look forward to working with the Cheyenne MPO on this project. 
Regards, 
STANTEC CONSULTING SERVICES INC. 
 
 
 
 
Ben Weaver   PE, PLS, PTOE, RSP2I  
Senior Transportation Engineer/Land Surveyor 
Phone: (307) 683-4160 
Ben .Weaver @Stantec.com  
Jill Rosselott  PE  
Senior Civil/Transportation Engineer 
Phone: (307) 683-5992 
Jill.Rosselott@Stantec.com  
Attachment:  AVI’s Work Scope 
“Exhibit B” – Schedule 
“Exhibit C” - Fee 
"EXHIBIT A"

 
East Allison Road Corridor Study  
December 4, 2025 
Page 1 of 3 
25.189 
 
Ben Weaver, PE, PLS, PTOE, RSP2I December 4, 2025 
Senior Transportation Engineer/Land Surveyor 25.189  
Stantec 
7000 Yellowtail Rd, Suite 230 
Cheyenne, WY 82009 
VIA EMAIL: ben.weaver@stantec.com   
RE: PROPOSAL FOR THE EAST ALLISON ROAD CORRIDOR STU DY (UPDATED) 
Dear Ben,  
AVI is pleased to submit the following proposal for engineering, planning, and surveying 
services to assist Stantec in the delivery of a successful corridor study for the City of Cheyenne 
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO). AVI’s proposed scope of work and fee for the 
project are below and listed in the format included in the RFQ: 
PROJECT MANAGEMENT  
This task will include management and administrative items associated with AVI’s scope of the 
work including all necessary progress reports, updated project schedules, invoices, and general 
correspondence. This task will also include the AVI project manager’s attendance of the project 
kickoff meeting, monthly progress meetings (12 anticipated), external coordination meetings 
and presentation of the final study to the MPO Technical Advisory Committees and MPO Policy 
Committee.  
Fee for this Task – $9,740.48 
TASK 1: EXISTING CONDITIONS ANALYSIS  
Topographic Surveying & Utility Investigations  – AVI will provide existing conditions 
surveying and mapping of the corridor in line with the MPO’s expected level of detail as listed in 
the RFQ.  
Segment 1: East Allison Rd from South Greeley Hwy (US 85) to Avenue C (approximately 0.55 
miles)  – AVI will perform a detailed ground topographic survey of all existing ground 
features/topography from right of way line to right of way line and 50 feet in each direction at 
all intersections. Ground topography outside of the existing right of way will be supplemented 
by City/County aerial contours and incorporated into the ground survey data. Any aerial 
contours used as a supplement to the ground survey will extend 50 feet beyond the existing 
right of way lines.  In addition to the collection of ground features, AVI will call for 811 utility 
locates and utilize any available mapping data provided by buried utility providers necessary to 
provide utility mapping at a accuracy level of Quality Level C as defined by ASCE 38-22 Standard 
Guideline for Investigating and Documenting Existing Utilities.  
"EXHIBIT A"
 
East Allison Road Corridor Study  
December 4, 2025 
Page 2 of 3 
25.189 
 
Segment 2: East Allison Rd from Avenue C to the west end of improved Allison Rd in the Niobrara 
Industrial Park (approximately 0.35 miles)  – AVI will not complete any ground surveying thru this 
segment but will utilize City/County aerial mapping and maps provided by utility providers 
necessary to compile the existing conditions thru this segment. 
Segment 3: Existing East Allison Rd section from the cul-de-sac on the west end of Allison Rd in the 
Niobrara Industrial Park to College Dr (approximately 0.70 miles) – AVI will not complete any 
ground surveying thru this segment but will utilize City/County aerial mapping and maps 
provided by utility providers necessary to compile the existing conditions thru this segment. 
Once all survey data is collected/processed and combined with all available data provided by 
others, AVI will provide deliverable files in AutoCAD Civil 3D (latest release) that will include all 
existing ground conditions collected and compiled, all applicable aerial maps, and a point codes 
list of all surveyed features.  
Fee for this Task – $13,561.46 
TASK 2: STORMWATER DRAINAGE NEEDS  
AVI is not scoped to provide services as part of this Task.  
Fee for this Task – $0.00 
TASK 3: PUBLIC STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT  
Public Open House Attendance – AVI will  provide available technical staff to support Stantec 
during the two (2) planned public open houses. AVI will make available 2-3 staff members for 
each public open house and this effort will include one (1) preparatory informational meeting 
ahead of each open house for staff members in attendance.   
Fee for this Task – $9,866.14 
TASK 4: CONCEPTUAL ROADWAY DESIGN OPTIONS  
Existing Utility Improvement Options  – In support of the conceptual roadway design efforts 
completed by Stantec, AVI will coordinate with existing utility providers (gas, electric, 
communication, water, sewer, ect…) on necessary relocation/improvement needs impacted with 
the preferred roadway design options and provide a narrative of recommendations in the final 
study.  
Fee for this Task – $3,486.08 
TASK 5: RIGHT OF WAY IDENTIFICATION AND PHASING  
Existing Right of Way Delineation – AVI will  lay out existing right of way thru a combination of 
found surveyed boundary corners during the ground surveying efforts supplemented with 
information obtained from recorded plats along the limits of the corridor. In addition, AVI will 
also provide a narrative of recommended survey work to be completed along the corridor with 
future design implementation projects.  
"EXHIBIT A"
 
East Allison Road Corridor Study  
December 4, 2025 
Page 3 of 3 
25.189 
 
Right of Way Phasing – In collaboration with the project steering committee and Stantec’s 
design team, AVI will provide right of way recommendations and phasing options along the 
corridor that will be implemented into the final study.  
Fee for this Task – $8,715.20 
TASK 6: PLANNING  LEVEL COST ESTIMATES  
Utility Improvements and Right of Way Acquisitions Cost Estimates  – Thru AVI’s proposed 
utility relocation/improvement scope and right of way acquisition/phasing efforts, AVI will 
provide planning level cost estimates to include with the overall project cost estimates.  
Fee for this Task – $1,021.68 
AVI’s Total Fee for this Project – $46,391.04 
CLOSURE  
AVI has reviewed the Subconsultant Agreement attached provided by Stantec and has no 
reservations or objections to the provisions outlined in said agreement.  
If you concur in all the foregoing and wish to direct us to proceed with the services, please have 
authorized persons enter pertinent information for Stantec in the Subconsultant Agreement 
ready for AVI to sign and execute. We will commence services only after we have received a fully 
executed agreement and a Notice to Proceed has been issued by Stantec. Fees and times stated 
in this Agreement are valid for sixty (60) days after the date of this letter. 
We appreciate the opportunity to provide professional services to Stantec and the Cheyenne 
MPO and are ready to begin work as soon as you are given the Notice to Proceed by the 
Cheyenne MPO which is anticipated sometime in early 2026. Please contact me if you have any 
questions. 
Respectfully Submitted  
AVI PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION 
 
 
 
Jake Wilson, PE  
Jr. Principal 
1103 Old Town Lane | Cheyenne, Wyoming 82009 | 307.637.6017 
avi@avipc.com | www.avipc.com  
Attachment: 
F.  AVI PC 2026 WYDOT Approved Negotiated Rates 
G.  AVI PC Fee Proposal Summary 
"EXHIBIT A"
  
 
  
 
“EXHIBIT B ” 
SCHEDULE:   
 
 
 Project Manager 
 Roadway/Traffic Lead 
 Roadway/Traffic 
Support 
 Concept Road Design 
Lead 
 Concpet Road Design 
Support 
 Concept Road Design 
Support 
 Pavement Condition 
Lead 
 Public Engagment Lead 
 Cost Estimation/QAQC 
Lead 
 Admin 
 PIR 
 Mileage 
 Per Diem 
 GSA Hotel Rate 
 AVI 
 Name  Weaver, Ben  Edington, Victoria  Hypnarowski, 
Brent  Cho, Joanne  Bonnet, Benjamin  Alden, Davis  Jadou n, Fadi  Polacek, Joseph  Rosselott, Jill  Clark, K at  Ruiz, Colleen 
 Billing Level  Level 13  Level 14  Level 13  Level 11  Level 10  Level 10  Level 14  Level 09  Level 14  Level 08  L evel 16 
 Project Billing Rate (T&M) $190.65 $196.16 $181.96 $154.10 $137.10 $137.10 $232.52 $1 19.83 $208.51 $92.83 $282.12 $0.73 $51.00 $132.00 $1.00 
 Total Units (T&M) 152 80 80 80 95 120 30 80 160 2 2 1,300 4 2 46,291.04 
 Fee (T&M) $28,978.80 $15,692.80 $14,556.80 $12,328.00 $13,024.50 $ 16,452.00 $6,975.60 $9,586.40 $33,361.60 $185.66 $564.24 $949.00 $204.00 $264.00 $46,291.04 
 Task Name  Units  Hours  Labour  Expense  Subs  To tal 
East Allison Road Corridor Study 152 80 80 80 95 120 30 80 160 2 2 1,300 4 2 46,391.04 881 $151,706. 40 $1,417.00 $46,391.04 $199,514.44 
Project Management 96 48 2 2 148 $29,060.78 $29,060.78 
Project Management Subconsultant 9,740.48 $9,740.48 $9 ,740.48 
Existing Conditions Analysis 80 80 50 30 240 $44,080.20 $44,080.20 
Traffic Volumes, Operations, & Safety Data 80 80 160 $3 0,249.60 $30,249.60 
Pavement Conditions and Roadway Geometry 30 30 $6,975. 60 $6,975.60 
Surface Drainage Patterns & Deficiencies 50 50 $6,855. 00 $6,855.00 
Existing Utility Conditions Analysis 13,561.46 $13,56 1.46 $13,561.46 
Stormwater Drainage 45 45 $6,169.50 $6,169.50 
Public & Stakeholder Engagement 56 80 52 1,300 4 2 188 $31,105.32 $1,417.00 $32,522.32 
Public & Stateholder Engagement Subconsultant 9,866. 14 $9,866.14 $9,866.14 
Conceptual Roadway Design Options 80 120 200 $28,780.00 $28,780.00 
Conceptual Utility Design 3,486.08 $3,486.08 $3,486.08
Right-of-Way Identification & Phasing 8,715.20 $8,715 .20 $8,715.20 
Planning-Level Cost Estimates 40 40 $8,340.40 $8,340.40
Planning-Level Cost Estimates Subconsultant 1,021.68 $1,021.68 $1,021.68 
QAQC 20 20 $4,170.20 $4,170.20 
"EXHIBITC" FEE 
Billing rates are calculated on base wage x overhead multiplier of 2.546, FCCM of 0.006 and 15% profit.
Wyoming Rates - WYDOT 
AVI FEE PROPOSAL SUMMARY for East Allison Road Corridor Study 
Estimated Sub-totals 
Description 
Hrs. $ Hrs. $ Hrs. $ Hrs. $ Hrs. $ Hrs. $ Hrs. $ Hrs. $
Project Management 66 8,428.86 $          - $                  - $                  10 950.30 $             6 361.32 $             - $                  - $                  - $                  9,740.48 $                         
Task 1 Existing Conditions Analysis 22 2,809.62 $          24 2,164.08 $          - $                  - $                  - $                  24 3,826.56 $          24 2,164.08 $          32 2,597.12 $          13,561.46 $                       
Task 2 Stormwater Drainage Needs - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                                 
Task 3 Public Stakeholder Engagement 32 4,086.72 $          26 2,344.42 $          30 3,435.00 $          - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  9,866.14 $                         
Task 4 Conceptual Roadway Design Options 16 2,043.36 $          16 1,442.72 $          - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  3,486.08 $                         
Task 5 Right of Way Identification and Phasing 40 5,1 08.40 $          40 3,606.80 $          - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  8,715.20 $                         
Task 6 Planning Level Cost Estimates 8 1,021.68 $          - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  - $                  1,021.68 $                         
$46,391.04 
184 23,498.64 $      106 9,558.02 $        30 3,435.00 $        10 950.30 $           6 361.32 $           24 3,826.56 $        24 4,328.16 $        64 2,597.12 $        46,391.04 $                     TOTAL 
 Cost Not To Exceed Professional Land Surveyor (AD) Surveyor (Non-Regist ered) (CC) Surveyor (Non-Registered) (AK) Accounting/Administration (RE) Administration (SP) Registered Engineer, PE (MC) Registered Engineer, PE (JW) Non-Registered Engineer (CA) 
$90.17 $81.16 $95.03 $60.22 $159.44 
Task 
$127.71 $90.17 $114.50 
"EXHIBIT C"
Billing rates are calculated on base wage x overhead multiplier of 1.966 and 12% profit.