GRANTAWARDAGREEMENTBETWEEN
WYOMING OFFICE OFHOMELAND SECURITY
AND
CITY OF CHEYENNE
Subrecipient Grant Award Agreement for U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Grant Programs Directorate, State
Homeland Security Program (SHSP) Grant Fiscal Year 2025
Subrecipient:
City of Cheyenne
UEI #
UQHNZWAM8YL9
Federal Award Amount:
$142,800.00
Period of Performance:
September 1, 2025 through August 31, 2027
CFDA #:
97.067
DHS Grant Code:
EMW-2025-SS-05015
Federal Award Date:
January 30, 2026
Project ID:
25-SHSP-CHE-PD-AET
1.
Parties. The parties to this Grant Award Agreement (Agreement) are Wyoming Office of
Homeland Security (Agency), whose address is: 5500 Bishop Blvd., Cheyenne, WY
82002, and City of Cheyenne (Subrecipient), whose address is: 415 W 18th St, Cheyenne,
WY 82001.
2.
Purpose of Agreement. The purpose of this Grant Award Agreement (Agreement) is to
set forth the terms and conditions by which the Subrecipient shall support the investment
of Addressing Emerging Threats to improve the ability of Laramie County to prevent a
threatened or an actual act of terrorism; protect citizens, residents, visitors, and assets
against the greatest threats that pose the greatest risk to the security of the United States;
mitigate the loss of life and property by lessening the impact of future catastrophic events;
respond quickly to save lives, protect property and the environment, and meet basic human
needs in the aftermath of a catastrophic incident; and/or recover through a focus on the
timely restoration, strengthening, accessibility and revitalization of infrastructure, housing,
and a sustainable economy, as well as the health, social, cultural, historic, and
environmental fabric of communities affected by a catastrophic incident. The funds used
under this Agreement will help prevent terrorism and prepare the nation for the threats and
hazards that pose the greatest risk to the security of the United States, therefore, funded
investments must have a terrorism-nexus. This award is not for the purposes of Research
& Development (R&D) as defined in 2 C.F.R. 200.87.
3.
Funding Authority. The funds the Agency will distribute to Subrecipient under this
Agreement are drawn from grant funds distributed to the State of Wyoming by the Fiscal
Year 2025 Homeland Security Grant Program, State Homeland Security Program awarded
to the State Of Wyoming. The program is authorized by the Homeland Security Act of 2002
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 1 of 13
(Public Law 107-296), as amended by section 101 of the Implementing Recommendations
of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-53).
4.
Term of Agreement. This Agreement is effective when all parties have executed it
(Effective Date). The Period of Performance of the Agreement is from September 1, 2025
through August 31, 2027. All services shall be completed during the Period of
Performance.
This Agreement may be extended by agreement of both parties in writing and subject to
the required approvals. There is no right or expectation of extension and any extension
will be determined at the discretion of the Agency.
5.
Payment.
A.
The Agency agrees to pay the Subrecipient for the services described in Attachment
A, Project Description, which is attached to and incorporated into this Agreement
by this reference. Total payment under this Agreement shall not exceed one
hundred forty-two thousand eight hundred dollars and no cents ($142,800.00).
Payment shall be made when services are completed, and within forty-five (45)
days after submission of invoice pursuant to Wyo. Stat. $ 16-6-602. Subrecipient
shall submit invoices in sufficient detail to ensure that payments may be made in
conformance with this Agreement. Subrecipient shall submit all invoices within
forty-five (45) days after the term of this Agreement.
B.
No payment shall be made for work performed outside the Period of Performance
of this Agreement. Should the Subrecipient fail to perform in a manner consistent
with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, payment under this
Agreement may be withheld until such time as the Subrecipient performs its duties
and responsibilities to the satisfaction of Agency.
C.
Travel. The payment of travel expenses shall be allowed as set forth below.
Subrecipient is expected to procure the most cost efficient travel arrangements.
()
Air Travel. The Agency agrees to reimburse the Subrecipient's approved
air travel expenses related to the performance of this Agreement. Air travel
shall be reimbursed based on actual costs, supported by a copy of the
original receipt with the invoice. Subrecipient must select the lowest airfare
(fares available in the market at the time of booking, preferably well in
advance of trip to attain the lowest possible airfare). Subrecipient shall book
economy class fares for all domestic travel. First class bookings are not
reimbursable.
(ii)
Personal Vehicle. The Agency agrees to reimburse the Subrecipient's
approved use of personal vehicle. Mileage shall be reimbursed at the current
reimbursed.
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and Cityof Cheyenne
Page 2 of 13
(iii)
Car Rental. The Agency agrees to reimburse the Subrecipient's approved
car rental expenses related to the performance of this Agreement. Car rental
expenses shall be reimbursed at actual costs, supported by a copy of the
original receipt with the invoice. Subrecipient must select the lowest rental
rates for an appropriate vehicle.
D.
Lodging. The Agency agrees to reimburse Subrecipient's approved lodging
expenses related to the performance of this Agreement. Lodging expenses shall be
reimbursed at actual costs, supported by a copy of the original receipt with the
invoice. The Subrecipient shall only invoice the Agency for the basic room rate,
taxes, and lodging fees. The Agency is not responsible for incidental or
miscellaneous expenses charged to the room. Incidental and miscellaneous
expenses for which the Agency shall not be responsible include charges such as
alcohol, internet, telephone charges, mini-bar, and movies.
E.
Meals. The Agency agrees to reimburse Subrecipient's approved meal expenses
related to the performance of this Agreement. Unless otherwise agreed upon, the
Subrecipient shall be reimbursed for meals in accordance with the current U.S.
General Services Administration rate per day. This reimbursement amount includes
all meal, beverage, and refreshment expenses incurred during the day. Requests for
reimbursement shall state the amount allowable for meals and list the actual number
of travel days on the invoice.
6.
Responsibilities of Subrecipient. The Subrecipient agrees to:
A.
Complete the project described in Attachment A, Project Description.
B.
Comply with terms and conditions as described in Attachment B, Agreement
Articles, which is attached to and incorporated into this Agreement by this
reference.
C.
Comply with the 2025 Homeland Security Grant Program (HSGP) Notice of
Funding Opportunity (NOFO) and the Preparedness Grants Manual to implement
this Agreement, and agrees that all use of funds under this Agreement will be in
accordance with the SHSP NOFO and Preparedness Grants Manual.
D.
THIRA/SPR. Complete/actively participate in a whole community Threat and
Hazard Risk Assessment (THIRA) or Stakeholder Preparedness Report (SPR)
update, or both, annually by the deadline, established by the Agency, of each year
during the entire term of this Agreement.
E.
NIMS. Maintain adoption and implementation of the National Incident
Management System (NIMS). Subrecipient must use standardized resource
management concepts for resource typing, credentialing, and an inventory to
facilitate the effective identification, dispatch, deployment, tracking, and recovery
of resources. Subrecipient shall update or modify its operational plans, and training
and exercise activities, as necessary, to achieve conformance with the National
Response Framework and NIMS implementation guidelines.
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 3 of 13
F.
Point of Contact. Keep the Agency up-to-date as to the name of the person acting
as the primary contact person for this Agreement using the Point of Contact
Information Form provided by the Agency, which is incorporated into this
Agreement by this reference, including any change of contact person, address,
email, or telephone information. Subrecipient's primary contact shall cooperate
with any assessments, national evaluation efforts, or information or data collection
requests, including, but not limited to, the provision of any information required for
the assessment or evaluation of any activities within this Agreement.
G.
Procurement. Subrecipient must use its own documented procurement procedures
that reflect applicable state, local, territorial, and tribal laws and regulations,
provided that the procurements conform to applicable federal law and the standards
identified in 2 CFR Part 200. All procurement activity must be conducted in
accordance with Federal Procurement Standards 2 CFR Part 200.317-200.327.
H.
Equipment.
()
Subrecipient may not use the funding provided under this Agreement to
purchase equipment not specifically authorized in the Authorized
Equipment List (AEL), which is incorporated into this Agreement by this
reference, unless the proposed acquisition is reviewed by the Agency and
approved by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security in writing prior to
purchase.
()
Subrecipient shall ensure all equipment purchased with funds provided
under this Agreement is maintained and available for response to terrorist
incidents. Subrecipient agrees that, when practicable, any equipment or
supplies purchased with grant funding shall be prominently marked as
follows: “Purchased with funds provided by the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security and administered by the Wyoming Office of Homeland
Security."
(iii)
Subrecipient shall maintain property records for all equipment purchased
with HSGP funds in accordance with 2 CFR 200.313 (d)(1-5) to include: a
description of the property, a serial number or other identification number,
the source of funding for the property (including the FAIN), who holds the
title, the acquisition date, and cost of the property, percentage of federal
participation in the project costs for the federal award under which the
property was acquired, the location, use and condition of the property, and
any ultimate disposition data including the date of disposal and sale price of
the property. Subrecipient shall provide Agency with updated property
records during the close-out of this Agreement.
Training and Exercise. Training conducted using HSGP funds should address a
performance gap identified through an Integrated Preparedness Plan, THIRA/SPR
process, or other assessment and contribute to building a capability that will be
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 4 of 13
evaluated through a formal exercise. Exercises conducted with this Agreement
should be managed and conducted consistent with Homeland Security Exercise and
Evaluation Program (HSEEP).
J.
Closeout.
()
Subrecipient shall submit a final project and financial report to the Agency
within forty-five (45) days after the termination of this Agreement. The final
report must include project description detailing accomplishments,
qualitative summary of the impact of those accomplishments, financial
summary, as well as other documents required by program guidance or
terms and conditions of the award, to include updated property records.
Failure to provide a final report may jeopardize future funding.
(i)
Subrecipient must maintain and retain the following: backup documentation
such as bids and quotes, cost/price analyses on file for review, other
documents required by federal regulations applicable at the time funds are
granted. Subrecipient shall keep detailed records of all transactions
involving this Agreement including but not limited to: specifications,
solicitations, competitive quotes or proposals, basis for selection decisions,
purchase orders, contracts, invoices, and cancelled checks. Failure to fully
document all purchases may result in Agency questioning and subsequently
disallowing Subrecipient's expenditures. Subrecipient must maintain its
records for three (3) years after the close of the underlying federal award.
7.
Responsibilities of Agency. The Agency agrees to:
A.
Pay Subrecipient in accordance with Section 5 above.
B.
Be available to provide necessary and feasible technical advice as requested by
Subrecipient.
C.
Notify Subrecipient of information and updates received from FEMA or other
federal agencies, which may affect or otherwise restrict the availability of funds
awarded to Subrecipient herein.
8.
Special Provisions.
A.
Assumption of Risk. The Subrecipient shall assume the risk of any loss of state
or federal funding, either administrative or program dollars, due to the
Subrecipient's failure to comply with state or federal requirements. The Agency
shall notify the Subrecipient of any state or federal determination of
noncompliance.
B.
Environmental Policy Acts.  Subrecipient agrees all activities under this
Agreement will comply with the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the National
Environmental Policy Act, and other related provisions of federal environmental
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 5 of 13
protection laws, rules or regulations.
C.
Human Trafficking. As required by 22 U.S.C. $ 7104(g) and 2 CFR Part 175,
this Agreement may be terminated without penalty if a private entity that receives
funds under this Agreement:
()
Engages in severe forms of trafficking in persons during the period of time
that the award is in effect;
(ii)
Procures a commercial sex act during the period of time that the award is
in effect; or
(iii)
Uses forced labor in the performance of the award or subawards under the
award.
D.
Kickbacks. Subrecipient certifies and warrants that no gratuities, kickbacks, or
contingency fees were paid in connection with this Agreement, nor were any fees,
commissions, gifts, or other considerations made contingent upon the award of this
Agreement. If Subrecipient breaches or violates this warranty, Agency may, at its
discretion, terminate this Agreement without liability to Agency, or deduct from
the agreed upon price or consideration, or otherwise recover, the full amount of any
commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingency fee.
E.
Limitations on Lobbying Activities. By signing this Agreement, Subrecipient
certifies and agrees that, in accordance with P.L. 101-121, payments made from a
federal grant shall not be utilized by Subrecipient or its sub-subrecipients in
connection with lobbying member(s) of Congress, or any federal agency in
connection with the award of a federal grant, Agreement, cooperative agreement,
or loan.
F.
Monitoring Activities. Agency shall have the right to monitor all activities related
shall include, but not be limited to, the right to make site inspections at any time
and with reasonable notice; to bring experts and consultants on site to examine or
evaluate completed work or work in progress; to examine the books, ledgers,
documents, papers, and records pertinent to this Agreement; and to observe
personnel in every phase of performance of Agreement related work.
G.
Nondiscrimination. The Subrecipient shall comply with the Civil Rights Act of
1964, the Wyoming Fair Employment Practices Act (Wyo. Stat. $ 27-9-105, et
seq.), the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), 42 U.S.C. $ 12101, et seq., and
the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 and any properly promulgated rules and
regulations thereto and shall not discriminate against any individual on the grounds
of age, sex, color, race, religion, national origin, or disability in connection with the
performance under this Agreement.
H.
No Finder's Fees. No finder's fee, employment agency fee, or other such fee
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 6 of 13
related to the procurement of this Agreement, shall be paid by either party.
1.
Publicity. Any publicity given to the projects, programs, or services provided
herein, including, but not limited to, notices, information, pamphlets, press releases,
research, reports, signs, and similar public notices in whatever form, prepared by
or for the Subrecipient and related to the services and work to be performed under
this Agreement, shall identify the Agency as the sponsoring agency and shall not
be released without prior written approval of Agency.
J.
Suspension and Debarment. By signing this Agreement, Subrecipient certifies
that neither it nor its principals/agents are presently debarred, suspended, proposed
for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this
transaction or from receiving federal financial or nonfinancial assistance, nor are
any of the participants involved in the execution of this Agreement suspended,
accordance with Executive Order 12549 (Debarment and Suspension), or 2 CFR
Part 180, or are on the debarred, or otherwise ineligible, vendors lists maintained
by the federal government. Further, Subrecipient agrees to notify Agency by
certified mail should it or any of its principals/agents become ineligible for
payment, debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded from receiving federal
funds during the term of this Agreement.
K.
Administration of Federal Funds. Subrecipient agrees its use of the funds
awarded herein is subject to the Uniform Administrative Requirements of 2 CFR
agency; all applicable regulations published in the Code of Federal Regulations;
L.
Copyright License and Patent Rights. Subrecipient acknowledges that federal
grantor, the State of Wyoming, and Agency reserve a royalty-free, nonexclusive,
unlimited, and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use, and to
authorize others to use, for federal and state government purposes: (1) the copyright
in any work developed under this Agreement; and (2) any rights of copyright to
which Subrecipient purchases ownership using funds awarded under this
Agreement. Subrecipient must consult with Agency regarding any patent rights
that arise from, or are purchased with, funds awarded under this Agreement.
M.
Federal Audit Requirements. Subrecipient agrees that if it expends an aggregate
amount in excess of the amount set forth in 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F in federal
funds during its fiscal year, it must undergo an organization-wide financial and
compliance single audit. Subrecipient agrees to comply with the audit requirements
of the U.S. General Accounting Office Government Auditing Standards and Audit
Requirements of 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F. If findings are made which cover any
part of this Agreement, Subrecipient shall provide one (1) copy of the audit report
to Agency and require the release of the audit report by its auditor be held until
adjusting entries are disclosed and made to Agency's records.
N.
Non-Supplanting Certification. Subrecipient hereby affirms that federal grant
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and Cityof Cheyenne
Page 7 of 13
funds shall be used to supplement existing funds, and shall not replace (supplant)
able to document that any reduction in non-federal resources occurred for reasons
other than the receipt or expected receipt of federal funds under this Agreement.
0.
Program Income. Subrecipient shall not deposit grant funds in an interest bearing
account without prior approval of Agency. Any income attributable to the grant
funds distributed under this Agreement must be used to increase the scope of the
program or returned to Agency.
P.
Applicability of Appendix II to 2 CFR Part 200. This Agreement has been
funded, in whole or in part, with an Award of Federal funds and is bound by the
federal contract provisions required by the Uniform Guidance Appendix II of
2 CFR Part 200 (the Federal Contract Provisions), incorporated herein by this
reference. In the event of a conflict between the Special Provisions section of this
Agreement, or any attachments or exhibits incorporated herein, and the Federal
Contract Provisions, the Federal Contract Provisions shall control. Failure to
comply with the Federal Contract Provisions shall constitute an event of default
under this Agreement. If such a default remains uncured five (5) calendar days
following the termination of a thirty (30) day prior written notice period, the
Agency may terminate this Agreement. This remedy will be in addition to any other
remedy available to the State of Wyoming and the Agency under this Agreement,
at law, or in equity.
9.
General Provisions.
A.
Amendments. Any changes, modifications, revisions, or amendments to this
Agreement which are mutually agreed upon by the parties to this Agreement shall
be incorporated by written instrument, executed by all parties to this Agreement.
B.
Applicable Law, Rules of Construction, and Venue. The construction,
interpretation, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of
the State of Wyoming, without regard to conflicts of law principles. The terms
"hereof," "hereunder," "herein," and words of similar import, are intended to refer
to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision or part. The Courts
of the State of Wyoming shall have jurisdiction over this Agreement and the parties.
The venue shall be the First Judicial District, Laramie County, Wyoming.
C.
Assignment Prohibited and Agreement Shall Not be Used as Collateral.
Neither party shall assign or otherwise transfer any of the rights or delegate any of
the duties set out in this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other
party. The Subrecipient shall not use this Agreement, or any portion thereof, for
collateral for any financial obligation without the prior written permission of the
Agency.
D.
Audit and Access to Records. The Agency and its representatives shall have
access to any books, documents, papers, electronic data, and records of the
Subrecipient which are pertinent to this Agreement. The Subrecipient shall
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 8 of 13
immediately, upon receiving written instruction from the Agency, provide to any
independent auditor or accountant all books, documents, papers, electronic data,
and records of the Subrecipient which are pertinent to this Agreement. The
Subrecipient shall cooperate fully with any such independent auditor or accountant
during the entire course of any audit authorized by the Agency.
E.
Availability of Funds. Each payment obligation of the Agency is conditioned
upon the availability of government funds which are appropriated or allocated for
the payment of this obligation and which may be limited for any reason including,
but not limited to, congressional, legislative, gubernatorial, or administrative
action. If funds are not allocated and available for continued performance of the
at the earliest possible time of the services which will or may be affected by a
shortage of funds. No penalty shall accrue to the Agency in the event this provision
is exercised, and the Agency shall not be obligated or liable for any future payments
due or for any damages as a result of termination under this section.
F.
Award of Related Agreements. The Agency may award supplemental or
successor agreements for work related to this Agreement or may award agreements
to other subrecipients for work related to this Agreement. The Subrecipient shall
cooperate fully with other subrecipients and the Agency in all such cases.
G.
Compliance with Laws. The Subrecipient shall keep informed of and comply with
all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and all federal grant
requirements and executive orders in the performance of this Agreement.
H.
Confidentiality of Information. Except when disclosure is required by the
Wyoming Public Records Act or court order, all documents, data compilations,
reports, computer programs, photographs, data, and other work provided to or
produced by the Subrecipient in the performance of this Agreement shall be kept
confidential by the Subrecipient unless written permission is granted by the Agency
for its release. If and when Subrecipient receives a request for information subject
to this Agreement, Subrecipient shall notify Agency within ten (10) days of such
request and shall not release such information to a third party unless directed to do
so by Agency.
Entirety of Agreement. This Agreement, consisting of thirteen (13) pages;
Attachment A, Project Description, consisting of one (1) page; and Attachment B,
Agreement Articles, consisting of sixteen (16) pages; and the Federal Contract
Provisions, represent the entire and integrated Agreement between the parties and
supersede all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, whether written
or oral. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the language of this
Agreement and the language of any attachment or document incorporated by
reference, the language of this Agreement shall control.
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and Cityof Cheyenne
Page 9 of 13
J.
Ethics. Subrecipient shall keep informed of and comply with the Wyoming Ethics
and Disclosure Act (Wyo. Stat. s 9-13-101, et seq.) and any and all ethical standards
governing Subrecipient's profession.
K.
Extensions. Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted or deemed to create an
expectation that this Agreement will be extended beyond the term described herein.
Any extension of this Agreement shall be initiated by the Agency and shall be
accomplished through a written amendment between the parties entered into before
the expiration of the original Agreement or any valid amendment thereto, and shall
be effective only after it is reduced to writing and executed by all parties to the
Agreement.
L.
Force Majeure. Neither party shall be liable for failure to perform under this
Agreement if such failure to perform arises out of causes beyond the control and
without the fault or negligence of the nonperforming party. Such causes may
include, but are not limited to, acts of God or the public enemy, fires, floods,
epidemics, quarantine restrictions, freight embargoes, and unusually severe
weather. This provision shall become effective only if the party failing to perform
immediately notifies the other party of the extent and nature of the problem, limits
delay in performance to that required by the event, and takes all reasonable steps to
minimize delays.
M.
Indemnification. Each party to this Agreement shall assume the risk of any
liability arising from its own conduct. Neither party agrees to insure, defend, or
indemnify the other.
N.
Independent Contractor. The Subrecipient shall function as an independent
contractor for the purposes of this Agreement and shall not be considered an
employee of the State of Wyoming for any purpose. Consistent with the express
terms of this Agreement, the Subrecipient shall be free from control or direction
over the details of the performance of services under this Agreement. The
Subrecipient shall assume sole responsibility for any debts or liabilities that may be
incurred by the Subrecipient in fulfilling the terms of this Agreement and shall be
solely responsible for the payment of all federal, state, and local taxes which may
accrue because of this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted
as authorizing the Subrecipient or its agents or employees to act as an agent or
representative for or on behalf of the State of Wyoming or the Agency or to incur
Subrecipient agrees that no health or hospitalization benefits, workers"
compensation, unemployment insurance, or similar benefits available to State of
Wyoming employees will inure to the benefit of the Subrecipient or the
Subrecipient's agents or employees as a result of this Agreement.
0.
Notices. All notices arising out of, or from, the provisions of this Agreement shall
be in writing either by regular mail or delivery in person at the addresses provided
under this Agreement.
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 10 of i3
Contact for the Agency:
Ashley Paulsrud
Grants/FinanceSectionChief
5500 Bishop Boulevard
Cheyenne, Wyoming 82009
307-777-4907
Ashley.paulsrud@wyo.gov
With a copy to:
Lynn Budd (Awarding Official)
Director, Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
5500 Bishop Boulevard
Cheyenne, Wyoming 82009
307-777-8511
Lynn.budd@wyo.goy
P.
Ownership and Return of Documents and Information. Agency is the official
custodian and owns all documents, data compilations, reports, computer programs,
photographs, data, and other work provided to or produced by the Subrecipient in
the performance of this Agreement. Upon termination of services, for any reason,
Subrecipient agrees to return all such original and derivative information and
documents to the Agency in a useable format. In the case of electronic
transmission, such transmission shall be secured. The return of information by any
other means shall be by a parcel service that utilizes tracking numbers.
Patent or Copyright Protection. The Subrecipient recognizes that certain
proprietary matters or techniques may be subject to patent, trademark, copyright,
license, or other similar restrictions, and warrants that no work performed by the
Subrecipient or its sub-subrecipients will violate any such restriction. The
Subrecipient shall defend and indemnify the Agency for any infringement or
alleged infringement of such patent, trademark, copyright, license, or other
restrictions.
R.
Prior Approval. This Agreement shall not be binding upon either party and the
Wyoming State Auditor shall not draw warrants for payment, until this Agreement
has been fully executed, approved as to form by the Office of the Attorney General,
filed with and approved by A&I Procurement, and approved by the Governor of the
State of Wyoming, or his designee, if required by Wyo. Stat. $ 9-2-3204(b)(iv).
S.
Severability. Should any portion of this Agreement be judicially determined to be
illegal or unenforceable, the remainder of the Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect, and the parties may renegotiate the terms affected by the severance.
T.
Sovereign Immunity and Limitations. Pursuant to Wyo. Stat. $ 1-39-104(a), the
into this Agreement and the Subrecipient expressly reserves govenmental
immunity. Each of them specifically retains all immunities and defenses available
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 11 of i3
to them as sovereigns or governmental entities pursuant to Wyo. Stat. $ 1-39-101,
et seq., and all other applicable law. The parties acknowledge that the State of
Wyoming has sovereign immunity and only the Wyoming Legislature has the
power to waive sovereign immunity. Designations of venue, choice of law,
enforcement actions, and similar provisions shall not be construed as a waiver of
sovereign immunity. The parties agree that any ambiguity in this Agreement shall
not be strictly construed, either against or for either party, except that any ambiguity
as to immunity shall be construed in favor of immunity.
U.
Taxes. The Subrecipient shall pay all taxes and other such amounts required by
federal, state, and local law, including, but not limited to, federal and social security
taxes, workers' compensation, unemployment insurance, and sales taxes.
V.
Termination of Agreement. This Agreement may be terminated, without cause,
by the Agency upon thirty (30) days written notice. This Agreement may be
terminated by the Agency immediately for cause if the Subrecipient fails to perform
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
W.
Third-Party Beneficiary Rights. The parties do not intend to create in any other
individual or entity the status of third-party beneficiary, and this Agreement shall
not be construed so as to create such status. The rights, duties, and obligations
contained in this Agreement shall operate only between the parties to this
Agreement and shall inure solely to the benefit of the parties to this Agreement.
The provisions of this Agreement are intended only to assist the parties in
determining and performing their obligations under this Agreement.
X.
Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence in all provisions of this Agreement.
Y.
Titles Not Controlling. Titles of sections and subsections are for reference only
and shall not be used to construe the language in this Agreement.
Z.
Waiver. The waiver of any breach of any term or condition in this Agreement shall
not be deemed a waiver of any prior or subsequent breach. Failure to object to a
breach shall not constitute a waiver.
AA.
Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts. Each counterpart,
when executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original and all counterparts
together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. Delivery by the Subrecipient
of an originally signed counterpart of this Agreement by facsimile or PDF shall be
Agency.
10.
Signatures.
The parties to this Agreement, either personally or through their duly
authorized representatives, have executed this Agreement on the dates set out below, and
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 12 of 13
certify that they have read, understood, and agreed to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement.
The Effective Date of this Agreement is the date of the signature last affixed to this page.
AGENCY:
Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
Lynn Budd, Director
Date
SUBRECIPIENT:
City of Cheyenne
Subrecipient Designee Signature
Date
Printed Name and Title of Designee
SUBRECIPIENTATTORNEY:APPROVALASTOFORM
8/19/26
Attorney
Date
ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE: APPROVAL AS TO FORM
lah #25Y52y
4/- 9-2G
Jodi A. Darrough, Senior Assistant Attorney General
Date
Grant Award Agreement between Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 13 of 13
ATTACHMENT A: Project Description
Subrecipient: City of Cheyenne
Project ID: 25-SHSP-CHE-PD-AET
The following submitted project(s) have been approved for the Federal Fiscal Year 2025 U.S.
Department of Homeland Security State Homeland Security Program Grant. Only expenditures
within the scope of the below projects will be reimbursed by the Wyoming Office of Homeland
Security. Any changes to the scope of work must be approved through the Wyoming Office of
Homeland Security prior to implementation.
REMINDER: Fuel, oil and routine maintenance charges are NOT covered under this grant.
Description
Amount
Eligible expenses as follows:
$142,800.00
Purchase of ballistic vests and accessories.
NOTE: SWAT Counter Terrorism training expenses are not
supported by this award.
For questions regarding individual project eligibility, the scope of an approved project, or the
2025 SHSP grant, please contact:
Darryl Erickson, Grant Program Manager
Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
307-777-4917
Ashley Paulsrud, Grants/Finance Section Chief
Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
307-777-4907
Attachment A to the Grant Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 1
ATTACHMENT B: Agreement Articles
State Homeland Security Program
GRANTEE:
Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
PROGRAM:
Homeland Security Grant Program
FEDERALAWARD: EMW-2025-SS-05015
Article 1 - Assurance, Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, Representations, and
Certifications
Recipients must complete either the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Standard Form 424B
Assurances - Non- Construction Programs, or OMB Standard Form 424D Assurances - Construction
Programs, as applicable. Certain assurances in these documents may not be applicable to your program
and the DHS financial assistance office (DHS FAO) may require applicants to certify additional
assurances. Applicants are required to fill out the assurances, as instructed.
Article 2 - General Acknowledgements and Assurances
Recipients are required to follow the applicable provisions of the Uniform Administrative Requirements,
Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards in effect as of the federal award date and
located in Title 2, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 200 and adopted by DHS at 2 C.F.R. $ 3002.10. All
recipients and subrecipients must acknowledge and agree to provide DHS access to records, accounts,
documents, information, facilities, and staff pursuant to 2 C.F.R. $ 200.337. 1. Recipients must cooperate
with any DHS compliance reviews or compliance investigations. II. Recipients must give DHS access to
examine and copy records, accounts, and other documents and sources of information related to the
federal award and permit access to facilities and personnel. Ill. Recipients must submit timely, complete,
and accurate reports to the appropriate DHS officials and maintain appropriate backup documentation to
support the reports. IV. Recipients must comply with all other special reporting, data collection, and
evaluation requirements required by law, federal regulation, Notice of Funding Opportunity, federal
award specific terms and conditions, and/or DHS Component program guidance. Organization costs
related to data and evaluation are allowable. The definition of data and evaluation costs is in 2 C.F.R. $
200.455(c), the full text of which is incorporated by reference. V. Recipients must complete DHS Form
3095within 60 days of receipt of the Notice of Award for the first award under which this term applies.
For further instructions and to access the form, please visit:https://www.dhs.gov/civil-rightsresources-
recipients-dhs-financial-assistance.
Article 3 - Acknowledgement of Federal Funding from DHS
Recipients must acknowledge their use of federal award funding when issuing statements, press releases,
requests for proposal, bid invitations, and other documents describing projects or programs funded in
whole or in part with federal award funds.
Article 4 - Activities Conducted Abroad
Recipients must coordinate with appropriate government authorities when performing project activities
outside the United States obtain all appropriate licenses, permits, or approvals.
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 1 of 16
Article5-Age Discrimination Act of 1975
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the Age Discrimination Act of1975, Pub. L. No. 94-135
(codified as amended at Title 42, U.S. Code $ 6101 et seq.), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of
age in any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance.
Article 6 - Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Titles I, II, and HII of the Americans with Disabilities
Act, Pub. L. No. 101-336 (1990) (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. $s 12101- 12213), which prohibits
recipients from discriminating on the basis of disability in the operation of public entities, public and
private transportation systems, places of public accommodation, and certain testing entities.
Article 7 - Best Practices for Collection and Use of Personally Identifiable Information
(1) Recipients who collect personally identifiable information (Pll) as part of carrying out the scope of
work under a federal award are required to have a publicly available privacy policy that describes
standards on the usage and maintenance of the PII they collect. (2) Definition. DHS defines “PI" as any
information that permits the identity of an individual to be directly or indirectly inferred, including any
information that is linked or linkable to that individual. Recipients may also find the DHS Privacy Impact
Assessments: Privacy Guidance and Privacy Template as useful resources respectively.
Article 8 - CHIPS and Science Act of 2022, Public Law 117-167 CHIPS
(1) Recipients of DHS research and development (R&D) awards must report to the DHS Component
research program office any finding or determination of sex based and sexual harassment and/or an
administrative or disciplinary action taken against principal investigators or co-investigators to be
completed by an authorized organizational representative (AOR) at the recipient institution. (2)
Notification. An AOR must disclose the following information to agencies within 10 days of the date/the
finding is made, or 10 days from when a recipient imposes an administrative action on the reported
individual, whichever is sooner. Reports should include: (a) Award number, (b) Name of PI or Co-PI
being reported, (c)Awardee name, (d) Awardee address, (e) AOR name, title, phone, and email address,
violated awardee policies or codes of conduct, statutes, or regulations related to sexual harassment, sexual
assault, or other forms of harassment, including the date that the finding was made. (i) Imposition of an
administrative or disciplinary action by the recipient on the reporting individual related to a
finding/determination or an investigation of an alleged violation of recipient policy or codes of conduct,
statutes, or regulations, or other forms of harassment. (ii) The date and nature of the
administrative/disciplinary action, including a basic explanation or description of the event, which should
not disclose personally identifiable information regarding any complaints or individuals involved. Any
description provided must be consistent with the Family Educational Rights in Privacy Act. (3)
Definitions. (a) An “authorized organizational representative (AOR)" is an administrative official who, on
behalf of the proposing institution, is empowered to make certifications and representations and can
commit the institution to the conduct of a project that an agency is being asked to support as well as
adhere to various agency policies and award requirements. (b) “Principal investigators and co-principal
law. (c) A “reported individual" refers to recipient personnel who have been reported to a federal agency
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 2 of 16
for potential sexual harassment violations. (d) “Sex based harassment" means a form of sex
discrimination and includes harassment based on sex, sex stereotypes, sex characteristics, pregnancy or
related conditions, sexual orientation, and gender identity. (e) "Sexual harassment" means unwelcome
sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of asexual nature when
this conduct explicitly or implicitly affects an individual's employment, unreasonably interferes with an
individual's work performance, or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment,
whether such activity is carried out by a supervisor or by a co-worker, volunteer, or contractor.
Article 9 - Civil Rights Act of 1964 -- Title VI
352 (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. s 2000d et seq.),which provides that no person in the United States
will, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the
benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial
assistance. DHS implementing regulations for the Act are found at 6C.F.R. Part 21. Recipients of a
federal award from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) must also comply with
FEMA's implementing regulations at 44 C.F.R. Part 7.
Article 10 - Civil Rights Act of 1968
Recipients must comply with Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, Pub. L. No.90284 (codified as
amended at 42 U.S.C.  3601 et seq.) which prohibits recipients from discriminating in the sale, rental,
financing, and advertising of dwellings, or in the provision of services in connection. Therewith, on the
basis of race, color, national origin, religion, disability, familial status, and sex, as implemented by the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development at 24 C.F.R. Part 100. The prohibition on disability
discrimination includes the requirement that new multifamily housing with four or more dwelling units
i.e., the public and common use areas and individual apartment units (all units in buildings with elevators
and ground-floor units in buildings without elevators)be designed and constructed with certain
accessible features. (See 24 C.F.R. Part 100, Subpart D.)
Article 11 - Communication and Cooperation with the Department of Homeland Security and
Immigration Officials
(l) All recipients and other recipients of funds under this award must agree that they will comply with the
following requirements related to coordination and cooperation with the Department of Homeland
Security and immigration officials:(a) They must comply with the requirements of 8 U.S.C. $s 1373 and
1644. These statutes prohibit restrictions on information sharing by state and local government entities
with DHS regarding the citizenship or immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of any individual.
Additionally, 8 U.S.C. s 1373 prohibits any person or agency from prohibiting, or in any way restricting,
a Federal, State, or local government entity from doing any of the following with respect to information
regarding the immigration status of any individual: 1) sending such information to, or requesting or
receiving such information from, Federal immigration officials; 2) maintaining such information; or 3)
exchanging such information with any other Federal, State, or local government entity; (b) They must
comply with other relevant laws related to immigration, including prohibitions on encouraging or
inducing an alien to come to, enter, or reside in the United States in violation of law, 8 U.S.C. $
1324(a)(1)(A)(iv), prohibitions on transporting or moving illegal aliens, 8 U.S.C. s 1324(a)(1 )(A)(ii),
prohibitions on harboring, concealing, or shielding from detection illegal aliens, 8U.S.C. s
1324(a)(1)(A)(ii), and any applicable conspiracy, aiding or abetting, or attempt liability regarding these
statutes; (c) That they will honor requests for cooperation, such as participation in joint operations,
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 3 of 16
sharing of information, or requests for short term detention of an alien pursuant to a valid detainer. A
jurisdiction does not fail to comply with this requirement merely because it lacks the necessary resources
to assist in a particular instance; (d) That they will provide access to detainees, such as when an
immigration officer seeks to interview a person who might be a removable alien; and (e) That they will
not leak or otherwise publicize the existence of an immigration enforcement operation. (2) The recipient
must certify under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. s 1746 and using a form that is acceptable to
DHS, that it will comply with the requirements of this term. Additionally, the recipient agrees that it will
require any subrecipients or contractors to certify in the same manner that they will comply with this term
prior to providing them with any funding under this award. (3) The recipient agrees that compliance with
this term is material to the Government's decision to make or continue with this award and that the
Department of homeland Security may terminate this grant, or take any other allowable enforcement
action, if the recipient fails to comply with this term.
Article 12 - Copyright
Recipients must affix the applicable copyright notices of 17 U.S.C. ss 401 or 402 to any work first
produced under federal awards and also include an acknowledgement that the work was produced under a
federal award (including the federal award number and federal awarding agency). As detailed in 2 C.F.R.
s200.3 15, a federal awarding agency reserves a royalty-free, nonexclusive, and irrevocable right to
reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the work for federal purposes and to authorize others to do so.
Article 13 - Debarment and Suspension
Recipients must comply with the non-procurement debarment and suspension regulations implementing
Executive Orders 12549 and 12689 set forth at 2 C.F.R. Part 180 as implemented by DHS at 2 C.F.R. Part
3000. These regulations prohibit recipients from entering into covered transactions (such as subawards
and contracts) with certain parties that are debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded from or ineligible
for participation in federal assistance programs or activities.
Article 14 - Drug-Free Workplace Regulations
Recipients must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in Subpart B (or Subpart C, if the
recipient is an individual) of 2 C.F.R. Part 3001, which adopts the Government- wide implementation (2
C.F.R. Part 182) of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. $s 8101-8106).
Article 15 - Duplicative Costs
Recipients are prohibited from charging any cost to this federal award that will be included as a cost or
used to meet cost sharing requirements of any other federal award in either the current or a prior budget
period. See 2 C.F.R. s 200.403(f).However, recipients may shift costs that are allowable under two or
more federal awards where otherwise permitted by federal statutes, regulations, or the federal award terms
and conditions.
Article 16 - Education Amendments of 1972 (Equal Opportunity in Education Act) -Title IX
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Pub. L.
No. 92-318 (codified as amended at 20 U.S.C. $1681 et seq.), which provide that no person in the United
States will, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be
subjected to discrimination under any educational program or activity receiving federal financial
assistance. DHS implementing regulations are codified at 6 C.F.R. Part 17.Recipients of a federal award
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and Cityof Cheyenne
Page 4 of 16
from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) must also comply with FEMA's
implementing regulations at 44 C.F.R. Part19.
Article 17 - Energy Policy and Conservation Act
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, Pub. L. No.
efficiency that are defined in the state energy conservation plan issued in compliance with this Act.
Article 18 -Equal Treatment of Faith-Based Organizations
It is DHS policy to ensure the equal treatment of faith-based organizations in social service programs
administered or supported by DHS or its component agencies, enabling those organizations to participate
policies and requirements contained in 6 C.F.R. Part 19 and other applicable statutes, regulations, and
guidance governing the participations of faith-based organizations in individual DHS programs.
Article 19 -Anti-Discrimination
Recipients must comply with all applicable Federal anti-discrimination laws material to the government's
payment decisions for purposes of 31 U.S.C. $ 372(b)(4). (1) Definitions. As used in this clause - (a) DEI
means “"diversity, equity, and inclusion." (b) DEIA means “diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility.""
(c)Discriminatory equity ideology has the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) of Executive Order 14190 of
January 29, 2025. (d) Federal anti-discrimination laws mean Federal civil rights law that protect
individual Americans from discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, and national origin. (e)
Illegal immigrant means any alien, as defined in 8 U.S.C. $ 110l(a)(3), who has no lawful immigration
status in the United States.(2) Grant award certification. (a) By accepting the grant award, recipients are
certifying that: (i) They do not, and will not during the term of this financial assistance award, operate any
anti-discrimination laws; and (ii) They do not engage in and will not during the term of this award engage
in, a discriminatory prohibited boycott. (ii) They do not, and will not during the term of this award,
operate any program that benefits illegal immigrants or incentivizes illegal immigration. (3) DHS reserves
the right to suspend payments in whole or in part and/or terminate financial assistance awards if the
Secretary of Homeland Security or her designee determines that the recipient has violated any provision
of subsection (2). (4) Upon suspension or termination under subsection (3), all funds received by the
recipient shall be deemed to be in excess of the amount that the recipient is determined to be entitled to
under the Federal award for purposes of 2 C.F.R. $ 200.346. As such, all amounts received will constitute
a debt to the Federal Government that may be pursued to the maximum extent permitted by law.
Article 20 -False Claims Act and Program Fraud Civil Remedies
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C.ss 3729- 3733, which
prohibit the submission of false or fraudulent claims for payment to the Federal Government. (See 31
U.S.C. $s 3801-3812, which details the administrative remedies for false claims and statements made.)
Article 21 - Federal Debt Status
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 5 of 16
All recipients are required to be non-delinquent in their repayment of any federal debt. Examples of
relevant debt include delinquent payroll and other taxes, audit disallowances, and benefit overpayments.
See OMB Circular A-129.
Article 22 - Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving
Recipients are encouraged to adopt and enforce policies that ban text messaging while driving recipient-
owned, recipient-rented, or privately owned vehicles when on official government business or when
performing any work for or on behalf of the Federal Government. Recipients are also encouraged to
conduct the initiatives of the type described in Section 3(a) of Executive Order 13513.
Article 23 - Fly America Act of 1974
Recipients must comply with Preference for U.S. Flag Air Carriers (a list of certified air carriers can be
found at: Certificated Air Carriers List  US Department of Transportation,
transportation of people and property to the extent that such service is available, in accordance with the
International Air Transportation Fair Competitive Practices Act of 1974, 49 U.S.C. $ 401 18, and the
interpretative guidelines issued by the Comptroller General of the United States in the March 31, 1981,
amendment to Comptroller General Decision B-138942.
Article 24 - Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990
Recipients must ensure that all conference, meeting, convention, or training space funded entirely or in
part by federal award funds complies with the fire prevention and control guidelines of Section 6 of the
Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990,1 5 U.S.C. $ 2225a.
Article 25 - John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2019
Recipients, subrecipients, and their contractors and subcontractors are subject to the prohibitions
described in section 889 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019,
Pub. L. No. 115-232 (2018) and 2 C.F.R.s 200.216, 200.327, 200.471, and Appendix II to 2 C.F.R. Part
200. The statute -as it applies to DHS recipients, subrecipients, and their contractors and subcontractors --
prohibits obligating or expending federal award funds on certain telecommunications and video
surveillance products and contracting with certain entities for national security reasons.
Article 26 - Limited English Proficiency (Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI)
Recipients must comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. $2000d et seq.)
prohibition against discrimination on the basis of national origin, which requires that recipients of federal
financial assistance take reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to persons with limited English
proficiency (LEP) to their programs and services. For additional assistance and information regarding
language access obligations, please refer to the DHS Recipient Guidance: https:/www.dhs.gov/guidance-
published-help-department-supported-organizationsprovide-meaningful-access-people-limited and
additional resources on http://www.lep.gov.
Article 27 - Lobbying Prohibitions
Recipients must comply with 31 U.S.C. $ 1352 and 6 C.F.R. Part 9, which provide that none of the funds
attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and Cityof Cheyenne
Page 6of 16
of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any federal action related to a
federal award or contract, including any extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification.
Per 6 C.F.R. Part 9, recipients must file a lobbying certification form as described in Appendix A to 6
C.F.R. Part 9 or available on Grants.gov as the Grants.gov Lobbying Form and file a lobbying disclosure
form as described in Appendix B to 6 C.F.R. Part 9 or available onGrants.gov as the Disclosure of
Lobbying Activities (SF-LLL).
Article28 -National Environmental Policy Act
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Pub. L.
No. 91-190 (1970) (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. $ 4321et seq.) (NEPA) and the Council on
Environmental Quality (CEQ) Regulations for Implementing the Procedural Provisions of NEPA, which
require recipients to use all practicable means within their authority, and consistent with other essential
considerations of national policy, to create and maintain conditions under which people and nature can
exist in productive harmony and fulfill the social, economic, and other needs of present and future
generations of Americans.
Article 29 - National Security Presidential Memorandum-33 (NSPM-33) and provisions of the
CHIPS and Science Act of 2022, Pub. L. 117-167, Section 10254
(1) Recipient research institutions (covered institutions") must comply with the requirements in NSPM-
33 and provisions of Pub. L.117-167, Section 10254(codified at 42 U.S.C. $ 18951) certifying that the
institution has established and operates a research security program that includes elements relating to:
(a)cybersecurity; (b) foreign travel security; (c) research security training; and (d)export control training,
as appropriate. (2) Definition. "Covered institutions" means recipient research institutions receiving
federal Research and Development (R&D) science and engineering support “in excess of $50 million per
year."
Article 30 - Non-Supplanting Requirement
Recipients of federal awards under programs that prohibit supplanting by law must ensure that federal
funds supplement but do not supplant non-federal funds that, in the absence of such federal funds, would
otherwise have been made available for the same purpose.
Article 31 - Notice of Funding Opportunity Requirements
All the instructions, guidance, limitations, scope of work, and other conditions set forth in the Notice of
Funding Opportunity (NOFO) for this federal award are incorporated by reference. All recipients must
comply with any such requirements set forth in the NOFO.If a condition of the NOFO is inconsistent
with these terms and conditions and any such terms of the federal award, the condition in the NOFO shall
be invalid to the extent of the inconsistency. The remainder of that condition and all other conditions set
forth in the NOFO shall remain in effect.
Article 32 - Patents and Intellectual Property Rights
Recipients are subject to the Bayh-Dole Act, 3S U.S.C. s 200 et seq. and applicable regulations governing
inventions and patents, including the regulations issued by the Department of Commerce at 37 C.F.R. Part
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 7 of 16
40l (Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms under Government
Awards, Contracts, and Cooperative Agreements) and the standard patent rights clause set forth at 37
C.F.R. $ 401.14.
Article 33-Presidential Executive Orders
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Presidential Executive Orders related to grants (also
known as federal assistance and financial assistance), the full text of which are incorporated by reference.
Article 34 -Procurement of Recovered Materials
States, political subdivisions of states, and their contractors must comply with Section 6002 of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, Pub. L. No. 89-272 (1965) (codified as amended by the Resource Conservation and
Rec0very Act at 42 U.S.C. $ 6962) and 2 C.F.R.  200.323. The requirements of Section 6002 include
procuring only items designated in guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at 40C.F.R.
Part 247 that contain the highest percentage of recovered materials practicable, consistent with
maintaining a satisfactory level of competition.
Article 35-Rehabilitation Act of 1973
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Pub. L.
No. 93-112 (codified as amended at 29 U.S.C. s 794), which provides that no otherwise qualified
handicapped individuals in the United States will, solely by reason of the handicap, be excluded from
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity
receiving federal financial assistance.
Article 36 - Reporting Recipient Integrity and Performance Matters
all federal awarding agencies exceeds $10,000,000for any period of time during the period of
performance of the federal award, then the recipient must comply with the requirements set forth in the
government-wide federal award term and condition for Recipient Integrity and Performance Matters is in
2 C.F.R. Part 200, Appendix XIl, the full text of which is incorporated by reference.
Article 37 - Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation
For federal awards that total or exceed $30,000, recipients are required to comply with the requirements
set forth in the government-wide federal award term and condition on Reporting Subawards and
Executive Compensation set forth at 2C.F.R. Part 170, Appendix A, the full text of which is incorporated
by reference.
Article 38 - Required Use of American Iron, Steel, Manufactured Products, and Construction
Materials
(1) Recipients of a federal award from a financial assistance program that provides funding for
infrastructure are hereby notified that none of the funds provided under this federal award may be used
for a project for infrastructure unless: (a) all iron and steel used in the project are produced in the United
Statesthis means all manufacturing processes, from the initial melting stage through the application of
coatings, occurred in the United States; (b) all manufactured products used in the project are produced in
the United States-this means the manufactured product was manufactured in the United States; and the
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 8 of 16
cost of the components of the manufactured product that are mined, produced, or manufactured in the
United States is greater than 55 percent of the total cost of all components of the manufactured product,
unless another standard for determining the minimum amount of domestic content of the manufactured
product has been established under applicable law or regulation; and (c) all construction materials are
manufactured in the United States this means that all manufacturing processes for the construction
material occurred in the United States. (2) The Buy America preference only applies to articles, materials,
and supplies that are consumed in, incorporated into, or affixed to an infrastructure project. As such, it
does not apply to tools, equipment, and supplies, such as temporary scaffolding, brought to the
construction site and removed at or before the completion of the infrastructure project. Nor does a Buy
America preference apply to equipment and furnishings, such as movable chairs, desks, and portable
computer equipment, that are used at or within the finished infrastructure project but are not an integral
part of the structure or permanently affixed to the infrastructure project. (3) Waivers When necessary,
recipients may apply for, and the agency may grant, a waiver from these requirements. The agency should
notify the recipient for information on the process for requesting a waiver from these requirements. (a)
When the Federal agency has determined that one of the following exceptions applies, the federal
awarding official may waive the application of the domestic content procurement preference in any case
in which the agency determines that: (i) applying the domestic content procurement preference would be
inconsistent with the public interest; (ii) the types of iron, steel, manufactured products, or construction
materials are not produced in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities or of a
satisfactory quality; or (i) the inclusion of iron, steel, manufactured products, or construction materials
produced in the United States will increase the cost of the overall project by more than 25 percent. (b) A
request to waive the application of the domestic content procurement preference must be in writing. The
agency will provide instructions on the format, contents, and supporting materials required for any waiver
request. Waiver requests are subject to public comment periods of no less than 1 5 days and must be
reviewed by the Made in America Office. (c) There may be instances where a federal award qualifies, in
whole or in part, for an existing waiver described at “Buy America" Preference in FEMA Financial
Assistance Programs for Infrastructure [ FEMA.gov.(4) Definitions. The definitions applicable to this
term are set forth at 2 C.F.R. $184.3, the full text of which is incorporated by reference.
Article39-SAFECOM
Recipients receiving federal awards made under programs that provide emergency communication
Communication Grants, including provisions on technical standards that ensure and enhance interoperable
communications. The SAFECOM Guidance is updated annually and can be found at Funding and
Sustainment|CISA.
Article 40 - Subrecipient Monitoring and Management
Pass-through entities must comply with the requirements for subrecipient monitoring and management as
set forth in 2 C.F.R. $$ 200.331-333.
Recipients are required to comply with the requirements set forth in the government wide federal award
term and condition regarding the System for Award Management and Unique Entity Identifier
Requirements in 2 C.F.R. Part 25, Appendix A, the full text of which is incorporated reference.
Article 42 - Termination of a Federal Award
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and Cityof Cheyenne
Page 9of 16
(1) By DHS. DHS may terminate a federal award, in whole or in part, for the following reasons: (a) If the
recipient fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the federal award; (b) With the consent of the
recipient, in which case the parties must agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective
date, and in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated; or (c) Pursuant to the terms and
conditions of the federal award, including, to the extent authorized by law, if the federal award no longer
effectuates the program goals or agency priorities. (3) By the Recipient. The recipient may terminate the
federal award, in whole or in part, by sending written notification to DHS stating the reasons for such
termination, the effective date, and in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated.
However, if DHS determines that the remaining portion of the federal award will not accomplish the
purposes for which the federal award was made, DHS may terminate the federal award in its entirety. (4)
Notice. Either party will provide written notice of intent to terminate for any reason to the other party no
less than 30 calendar days prior to the effective date of the termination. (5) Compliance with Closeout
Requirements for Terminated Awards. The recipient must continue to comply with closeout requirements
in 2 C.F.R. $s 200.344 200.345 after an award is terminated.
Article 43 - Terrorist Financing
Recipients must comply with Executive Order 13224 and applicable statutory prohibitions on transactions
with, and the provisions of resources and support to, individuals and organizations associated with
terrorism. Recipients are legally responsible for ensuring compliance with the Executive Order and laws.
Article 44 - Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000(TVPA)
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the government-wide federal award term and condition
which implements Trafficking Victims Protection Act of2000, Pub. L. No. 106-386, $ 106 (codified as
amended at 22 U.S.C. $ 7104). The federal award term and condition is in 2 C.F.R. $ 175.105, the full
text of which is incorporated by reference.
Article 45 - Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to
Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT) Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Pub. L. 107-56, Section 817 of the USA PATRIOT Act,
which amends 18 U.S.C. $s 175-175c.
Article 46 - Use of DHS Seal, Logo and Flags
Recipients must obtain written permission from DHS prior to using the DHS seals, logos, crests, or
reproductions of flags, or likenesses of DHS agency officials. This includes use of DHS component (e.g.,
FEMA, CISA, etc.) seals, logos, crests, or reproductions of flags, or likenesses of component officials.
Article47-WhistleblowerProtectionAct
Recipients must comply with the statutory requirements for whistleblower protections in 10 U.S.C s
470141 U.S.C. $ 4712.
Article 48 - Environmental Planning and Historic Preservation (EHP) Review
DHS/FEMA funded activities that could have an impact on the environment are subject to the FEMA
EHP review process. This review does not address all federal, state, and local requirements. Acceptance
of federal funding requires the recipient to comply with all federal, state, and local laws. DHS/FEMA is
required to consider the potential impacts to natural and cultural resources of all projects funded by
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 10 of 16
DHS/FEMA grant funds, through its EHP review process, as mandated by: the National Environmental
Policy Act; Endangered Species Act; National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended; Clean
Water Act; Clean Air Act; National Flood Insurance Program regulations; and any other applicable laws,
regulations and executive orders. General guidance for FEMA's EHP process is available on the
DHS/FEMA Website. Specific applicant guidance on how to submit information for EHP review depends
on the individual grant program. Applicants should contact their grant Program Officer to be put into
contact with EHP staff responsible for assisting their specific grant program. The FEMA EHP review
process must be completed before funds are released to carry out the proposed project, otherwise,
DHS/FEMA may not be able to fund the project due to noncompliance with EHP laws, executive orders,
regulations, and policies. DHS/FEMA may also need to perform a project closeout review to ensure the
applicant complied with all required EHP conditions identified in the initial review. If ground disturbing
activities occur during construction, the applicant will monitor the ground disturbance, and if any
potential archaeological resources are discovered, the applicant will immediately cease work in that area
and notify the pass-through entity, if applicable, and DHS/FEMA. EO 11988, Floodplain Management,
and EO 11990, Protection of Wetlands, require that all federal actions in or affecting the floodplain or
wetlands be reviewed for opportunities to relocate, and be evaluated for social, economic, historical,
environmental, legal, and safety considerations. FEMA's regulations at44 C.F.R. Part 9 implement the
EOs and require an eight-step review process if a proposed action is in a floodplain or wetland or has the
potential to affect or be affected by a floodplain or wetland. The regulation also requires that the federal
agency provide public notice of the proposed action at the earliest possible time to provide the
opportunity for public involvement in the decision-making process (44C.F.R. s 9.8). Where there is no
opportunity to relocate the federal action, FEMA is required to undertake a detailed review to determine
what measures can be taken to minimize future damages to the floodplain or wetland.
Article 49 - Applicability of DHS Standard Terms and Conditions to Tribal Nations
The DHS Standard Terms and Conditions are a restatement of general requirements imposed upon
recipients and flow down to sub-recipients as a matter of law, regulation, or executive order. If the
requirement does not apply to Tribal Nations, or there is a federal law or regulation exempting its
application to Tribal Nations, then the acceptance by Tribal Nations, or acquiescence to DHS Standard
Terms and Conditions does not change or alter its inapplicability to a Tribal Nation. The execution of
grant documents is not intended to change, alter, amend, or impose additional liability or responsibility
upon the Tribal Nations where it does not already exist.
Article 50 - Acceptance of Post Award Changes
In the event FEMA determines that an error in the award package has been made, or if an administrative
change must be made to the award package, recipients will be notified of the change in writing. Once the
notification has been made, any subsequent requests for funds will indicate recipient acceptance of the
changes to the award. Please email FEMA Grant Management Operations at: ASK-GMD@fema.dhs.gov
for anyquestions.
Article 51 - Disposition of Equipment Acquired Under the Federal Award
project or program or for other activities currently or previously supported by a federal awarding agency,
the non-state recipient or subrecipient (including subrecipients of a State or Tribal Nation), must request
instructions from FEMA to make proper disposition of the equipment pursuant to 2C.F.R. section
200.313(e). State recipients must follow the disposition requirements in accordance with State laws and
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
andCityof Cheyenne
Page 11 of 16
procedures. 2 C.F.R. section 200.313(b). Tribal Nations must follow the disposition requirements in
accordance with Tribal laws and procedures noted in 2 C.F.R. section 200.313(b); and if such laws and
procedures do not exist, then Tribal Nations must follow the disposition instructions in 2 C.F.R. section
200.313(e).
Article 52 - Prior Approval for Modification of Approved Budget
Before making any change to the FEMA approved budget for this award, a written request must be
submitted and approved by FEMA as required by 2 C.F.R. section200.308. For purposes of non-
construction projects, FEMA is utilizing its discretion to impose an additional restriction under 2 C.F.R.
section 200.308(i) regarding the transfer of funds among direct cost categories, programs, functions, or
activities. For awards with an approved budget where the federal share is greater than the simplified
acquisition threshold (currently $250,000) and where the cumulative amount of such transfers exceeds or
is expected to exceed ten percent (10%) of the total budget FEMA last approved, transferring funds
among direct cost categories, programs, functions, or activities is unallowable without prior written
approval from FEMA. For purposes of awards that support both construction and non-construction work,
2 C.F.R. section 200.308(f(9) requires the recipient to obtain prior written approval from FEMA before
making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work. Any deviations from a FEMA
approved budget must be reported in the first Federal Financial Report (SF-425) that is submitted
following any budget deviation, regardless of whether the budget deviation requires prior written
approval.
Article 53 - Indirect Cost Rate
2 C.F.R. section 200.21 1(b) (16) requires the terms of the award to include the indirect cost rate for the
federal award. If applicable, the indirect cost rate for the award is stated in the budget documents or other
materials approved by FEMA and included in the award file.
Article 54 - Build America, Buy America Act (BABAA) Required Contract Provision & Self-
Certification
In addition to the DHS Standard Terms & Conditions regarding Required Use of American Iron, Steel,
Manufactured Products, and Construction Materials, recipients and subrecipients of FEMA financial
assistance for programs that are subject to BABAA must include a Buy America preference contract
provision as noted in 2 C.F.R. section 184.4 and a self-certification as required by the FEMA Buy
America Preference in FEMA Financial Assistance Programs for Infrastructure(FEMA Interim Policy
#207-22-0001). This requirement applies to all subawards, contracts, and purchase orders for work
performed, or products supplied under the FEMA award subject to BABAA.
Article 55 - Summary Description of Award and Subprograms
The purpose of the FY 2025 HSGP is to support state and local efforts to prevent terrorism and other
security of the United States. The HSGP provides funding to implement investments that build, sustain,
and deliver the 32 core capabilities essential to achieving the National Preparedness Goal of a secure and
resilient Nation. Among the five basic homeland security missions noted in the DHS Quadrennial
Homeland Security Review, HSGP supports the goal to Strengthen National Preparedness and Resilience.
The building, sustainment, and delivery of these core capabilities are not exclusive to any single level of
government, organization, or community, but rather, require the combined effort of the whole community.
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 12 of 16
This HSGP award consists of State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) funding in the amount of
purchase, training, exercises, and management and administration across all core capabilities and mission
areas.
Article 56 - HSGP Performance Goal
In addition to the Biannual Strategy Implementation Report (BSIR) submission requirements outlined in
the Preparedness Grants Manual, recipients must demonstrate how the grant-funded project addressed the
core capability gap associated with this project and identified in the Threat and Hazard Identification and
Risk Analysis (THIRA) or Stakeholder Preparedness Review (SPR) or sustains existing capabilities as
applicable. The capability gap reduction must be addressed in the Project Description of the BSIR for
each project.
Article 57 - Period of Performance and Budget Period
Rescinded by Article 65.
Article 58 - Non-Applicability of Specific Agreement Articles
Notwithstanding its inclusion in this award package, the following Agreement Article does not apply to
this grant award: 1. Termination of a Federal Award. This provision is consistent with any terms of the
Notice of Funding Opportunity that state Paragraph C.XL (Termination of a Federal Award) of the FY
2025 DHS Standard Terms and Conditions does not apply to this award. Refer to the Notice of Funding
Opportunity for the terms governing award termination.
Article 59 - State Homeland Security Program: Compliance with Federal Immigration Law
The following term applies to State Homeland Security Program funding under this award: 1. Prohibition
a. The state, territorial, or local recipient is prohibited from being designated by the Department of
Homeland Security or the Department of Justice as a sanctuary jurisdiction. If the Department of
Homeland Security or Department of Justice designates a state or territory as a sanctuary jurisdiction after
the Department of Homeland Security makes a grant award, the state or territorial recipient is prohibited
from making any financial obligations under the grant award on or after the date of designation until the
Department of Homeland Security removes that designation. The Department of Homeland Security will
suspend that portion of the grant award supported by risk-based funding and not make payments to the
state or territorial recipient on or after the date of designation until the Department of Homeland Security
or Department of Justice removes that designation. This term and condition applies to the funding
provided under the relative risk methodology pursuant to Section 2007 of the Homeland Security Act
of2002 (6 U.S.C. s 608) and does not apply to the minimum allocation to that state or territory required
by Section 2004(e) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6U.S.C. $ 605(e)). b. The state, territorial, or
the Department of Homeland Security or Department of Justice designates a state, territorial, or local
government as a sanctuary jurisdiction after the state, territorial, or local government recipient makes a
subaward to that state, territorial, or local government, the state, territorial, or local recipient must suspend
the subaward, the state, territorial, or local recipient must not make any additional payments to the state,
territorial, or local government, and the state, territorial, or local government is prohibited from making
any financial obligations under the subaward on and after the date of designation until the Department of
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and City of Cheyenne
Page 13 of 16
Homeland Security or Department of Justice removes that designation. This term and condition applies to
all funding provided to the state or territorial recipient, including both the statutory minimum as well as
local government as a sanctuary jurisdiction if it fails to comply with that requirements set forth in
paragraphs 2.a.i to v of this term and condition. 2. Certification a. The state, territorial or local recipient
and subrecipients must certify under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. s 1746, and using a form
that is acceptable to the Department of Homeland Security, that they will comply with the following
requirements related to coordination and cooperation with the Department of Homeland Security and
immigration officials: i. They will comply with the requirements of 8 U.S.C. $ 1373 and 1644. These
statutes prohibit restrictions on information sharing by state and local government entities with the
Department of Homeland Security regarding the citizenship or immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of
any individual. Additionally, 8 U.S.C. s 1373 prohibits any person or agency from prohibiting, or in any
way restricting, a Federal, state, or local government entity from doing any of the following with respect
to information regarding the immigration status of any individual: (1) sending such information to, or
requesting or receiving such information from, Federal immigration officials; (2)maintaining such
information; or (3) exchanging such information with any other Federal, state, or local government entity.
ii. They will comply with other relevant laws related to immigration, including prohibitions on
encouraging or inducing an alien to come to, enter, or reside in the United States in violation of law, 8
U.S.C. $1324(a)(1)(A)(iv), prohibitions on transporting or moving illegal aliens, 8 U.S.C.
$1324(a)(1)(A)(i), prohibitions on harboring, concealing, or shielding from detection illegal aliens, 8
U.S.C.  1324(a)(1)(A)(i), and any applicable conspiracy, aiding or abetting, or attempt liability
regarding these statutes. ii. They will honor requests for cooperation, such as participating in joint
operations, sharing of information, or requests for short term detention of an alien pursuant to a valid
detainer. A jurisdiction does not fail to comply with this requirement merely because it lacks the
necessary resources to assist in a particular instance. iv. They will provide access to detainees, such as
when an immigration officer seeks to interview a person who might be a removable alien. v. They will not
leak or otherwise publicize the existence of an immigration enforcement operation. b. The state or
territorial recipient must require a state, territorial, or local government subrecipient to make the
certification above before providing them with any funding under the subaward. 3. Materiality and
Remedies for Noncompliance. This term and condition is material to the Department of Homeland
Security's decision to continue with this grant award and the Department of Homeland Security may take
any remedy for noncompliance, including termination, if the state or territorial recipient or a local
government subrecipient fails to comply with this term and condition.
Article 60 - State Homeland Security Program: Non-Applicability of Specific Terms and
AgreementArticles
The following term applies to State Homeland Security Program funding under this award:
Notwithstanding their inclusion in this award package, the following terms and Agreement Articles do not
apply to this grant award: (1) paragraph C.IX(Communication and Cooperation with the Department of
Homeland Security and Immigration Officials) of the DHS Standard Terms and Conditions and the
Agreement Article titled "Communication and Cooperation with the Department of Homeland Security
and Immigration Officials" in this award package; and (2)paragraph C.XVII(2)(a)(ii) (Anti-
Discrimination Grant Award Certification regarding immigration) of the DHS Standard Terms and
package.
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and Cityof Cheyenne
Page 14 of 16
Article 61 - State Homeland Security Program: Impact of San Francisco v. Trump Preliminary
Injunction
The following term applies to State Homeland Security Program funding under this award: Pursuant to
the preliminary injunction order issued on August 22, 2025, in City and County of San Francisco, et al. v.
Trump, et al., No. 3:25-cv-01350 (N.D. Cal.), the following terms and conditions do not apply to awards
or subawards issued to any of the plaintiffs subject to the preliminary injunction order while the order
remains in effect: (1) paragraph C.IX (Communication and Cooperation with the Department of
Homeland Security and Immigration Officials) of the DHS Standard Terms and Conditions and the
Agreement Article titled “Communication and Cooperation with the Department of Homeland Security
and Immigration Officials" in this award package; (2) paragraph C.XVIl(2)(a)(ii) (Anti-Discrimination
Grant Award Certification regarding immigration) of the DHS Standard Terms and Conditions and
paragraph (2)(a)(ii) of the Agreement Article titled “Anti-Discrimination" in this award package; and (3)
the "State Homeland Security Program: Compliance with Federal Immigration Law" Agreement Article.
If the preliminary injunction is stayed, vacated, or extinguished, the “State Homeland Security Program:
Compliance with Federal Immigration Law" Agreement Article will immediately become effective.
Article 62 - State Homeland Security Program: Impact of State of lllinois v. FEMA Injunction
Pursuant to the memorandum and order issued on September 24, 2025, in State of Illinois, et al. v.
Federal Emergency Management Agency, et. al, No. 25-206 (D.R.I.), the following terms and conditions
do not apply to awards or subawards issued to any of the plaintiffs subject to the injunction order while
the order remains in effect: (1) paragraph C.IX (Communication and Cooperation with the Department of
Homeland Security and Immigration Officials) of the DHS Standard Terms and Conditions and the
Agreement Article titled “"Communication and Cooperation with the Department of Homeland Security
and Immigration Officials" in this award package; (2) paragraph C.XVIl(2)(a)(ii) (Anti-Discrimination
Grant Award Certification regarding immigration) of the DHS Standard Terms and Conditions and
paragraph (2)(a)(ii) of the Agreement Article titled “Anti-Discrimination" in this award package; and (3)
the "State Homeland Security Program: Compliance with Federal Immigration Law" Agreement Article.
If the injunction is stayed, vacated, or extinguished, the "State Homeland Security Program: Compliance
with Federal Immigration Law" Agreement Article will immediately become effective.
Article 63 - Funding Hold: Additional Information Required
FEMA has placed a funding hold on this award, and $4,362,750.00 is on hold in the FEMA financial
systems. The recipient is prohibited from obligating, expending, or drawing down the funds associated
with the following Homeland Security Grant Program subprogram(s)/investment(s): N/A. To release the
funding hold, the recipient must provide a detailed cost breakdown and justification for the
investments/projects listed above. FEMA will rescind the funding holid upon its review and approval of
the detailed cost breakdown and justification. If you have questions about this funding hold, please
contact the DHS/FEMA Headquarters Preparedness Officer.
Article 64 - Amended Award Amount Pursuant to State of Illinois, et al. v. Kristi Noem, et al. (D.RI).
Pursuant to the Permanent Injunction Order issued by the U.S. District Court for the District of Rhode
Island in State of Illinois, et al. v. Kristi Noem, et al., No. I:25-cv-00495, dated December 22, 2025, and
Information Bulletin (IB) 540, the amount of funding awarded by this Fiscal Year 2025 Homeland
Security Grant Program (HSGP) grant has been amended to reflect the amount set forth in the Notice of
Funding Opportunity dated August 1, 2025. Further, the "Summary Description of Award and
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
and Cityof Cheyenne
Page 15 of i6
Subprograms" is amended to read as follows: The purpose of the FY2025 HSGP is to support state and
local efforts to prevent terrorism and other catastrophic events and to prepare the Nation for the threats
and hazards that pose the greatest risk to the security of the United States. The HSGP provides funding to
implement investments that build, sustain, and deliver the 32 core capabilities essential to achieving the
National Preparedness Goal of a secure and resilient Nation. Among the five basic homeland security
missions noted in the DHS Quadrennial Homeland Security Review, HSGP supports the goal to
Strengthen National Preparedness and Resilience. The building, sustainment, and delivery of these core
capabilities are not exclusive to any single level of government, organization, or community, but rather,
require the combined effort of the whole community. This HSGP award consists of State Homeland
Security Program (SHSP) funding in the amount of $4,362,750. This grant program funds a range of
activities, including planning, organization, equipment purchase, training, exercises, and management and
administration across all core capabilities and mission areas.
Article 65 - Amended Period of Performance and Budget Period Pursuant to State of Illinois, et al.
v. Kristi Noem, et al. (D.RI) and State of Michigan et al. v. Kristi Noem et al. (D.OR).
Pursuant to the Permanent Injunction Order issued by the U.S. District Court for the District of Rhode
Island in State of Illinois, et al. v. Kristi Noem, et al., No. 1:25-cv-00495, dated December 22, 2025 and
the Permanent Injunction Order issued by the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon in State of
Michigan, et al. v. Kristi Noem et al., No 6:25-cv-02053-AP, dated December 23, 2025, the Agreement
Article titled "Period of Performance and Budget Period") of your award package is rescinded. The new
Period of Performance and Budget Period for this award is September 1, 2025 to August 31, 2028.
Attachment B to the Agreement between the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
andCityofCheyenne
Page 16of 16
2025 State Homeland Security Program (SHSP)
GRANT POINT OF CONTACT
INFORMATION FORM
Agency Name:
Cheyenne Police Department
Grant Project ID:
25-SHSP-CHE-PD-AET
Mailing Address:
415 West 18 Street
City, ST ZIP
Cheyenne WY 82001
Grant Administrator Name:
Elizabeth Finochiaro
Title:
Economic Resource Administrator
Phone Number:
307-637-6285
Email:
efinochiaro@cheyennecity.org
(The "Grant Administrator" is the person with your agency who is responsible for the award)
Authorized Point of Contact:
Brett Durante
Title:
Lieutenant
Phone Number:
307-637-6530
Email:
bdurante@cheyennepd.org
(The "Authorized Point of Contact" is the person WOHS will contact with any award information/issues)
This form must be signed below by the same person who signed the
Grant Award Agreement
I certify the following by my signature, under penalty of false swearing pursuant to W.S. 6-5-303: I have read and
understood the incorporated references and requirements in the 2023 State Homeland Security Program Grant Award
Agreement.
Signature
Date
Printed Name
Title
Please completeand emailasignedcopy ofthis formto:
DarrylErickson. SHSP Grants Specialist
Wyoming Office of Homeland Security
5500 Bishop Boulevard. Cheyenne.WY 82009
darrvlcricksonl a wvo pu