PLANNING &  
DEVELOPMENT  
2101 O’Neil Avenue 
Cheyenne, WY 82001 
(307) 637-6282 
cheyennecity.org 
 
MEMO 
To: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
From: Charles Bloom, AICP, Planning and Development Director 
Subject: PLTA-26-2 – An Ordinance Amending 1.3.11 Nonconformities; 1.4.4 
Definitions; 1.4.5 Interpretation of Zoning Map; 2.2.7 Special Use 
Approval; 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established; and 5.1.4 Use Table; and 
creating 5.6.10 Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District) and 5.7.13 
Gaming Center Development Standards and Setting an Effective Date for 
Compliance. 
Date: May 26, 2026   
 
 
Background:  
 
The item for consideration is a Unified Development Code (UDC) Text Amendment. This is 
approved by Ordinance. The proposed Governing Body review schedule is as follows: 
• Introduction and Referral  May 26, 2026 
• Public Services Committee  June 1, 2026  
• Second reading   June 8, 2026 
• Public Services Committee  June 15, 2026 
• Third and final reading  June 22, 2026 
 
Planning Commission Recommendation:  
 
The Planning Commission considered this item on May 18, 2026. The Commission recommended 
approval of the text amendment with modifications.  The modification is not reflected in the staff 
report; however, it is reflected in the attached ordinance.  The modification was to proposed 
UDC subsection 5.7.13.a.1 and is reflected in section 9 of the proposed ordinance.  
 
The modification was regarding distance buffers from specific uses and it was modified as 
follows:  
 
“Be located five hundred (500) feet from any elementary or secondary school, child 
care center operating as the sole primary use of an independent structureat the time 
of application, place of worship, or public park or recreation facility.  Measurement 
shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or streets, 
from the nearest exterior wall of the premises or structure housing the off-track 
betting facility to the nearest exterior wall of the primary structure of a place of 
worship, school, or child care center, or to the nearest property line of a public park 
or recreation facility.” 
 
This modification did change the ability for two of the seven existing facilities to operate as 
shown on the table below if the uses wished to expand or were required to re-apply for 
development approval. If the Governing Body moves forward with the ordinance as 
recommended by the Planning Commission they will be will not meet the requirements for 
Special Use approval and would be required to cease operation if a sunset provision for these 
uses is included in the ordinance.  These seven facilities are operated by two operators.   
Compliance with 500-foot buffer requirement 
Cheyenne Pari-Mutuel Wagering 
Facilities 
As Presented to the 
Planning Commission 
As Recommended by the 
Planning Commission 
Horse Palace – Swan Ranch 
5640 High Plains Road  Yes Yes 
Horse Palace – Downtown 
1601 Central Avenue  Yes Yes 
Horse Palace – Dell Range 
1802 Dell Range Blvd, Suite 3 Yes Yes 
Derby Club Gaming Parlor – Pershing  
1510 E. Pershing Blvd Yes No 
Derby Club Gaming Parlor – Ridge Road* 
3310 Ridge Road Yes* No 
Wyoming Downs OTB – Cheyenne Plaza 
3617 E. Lincolnway Yes Yes 
Wyoming Downs OTB – Dell Range 
1345 Dell Range Blvd Yes Yes 
*During finalization of the online map staff noted this property is zoned MUB. Staff will present language at the first Public 
Services Committee meeting to add Gaming Centers as a Special Use in the MUB district subject to the Development 
Standards of UDC 5.7.13. There was no intent to make any facilities non-compliant with the draft submitted to the Planning 
Commission.  
 
Staff will present an online map at the Public Services Committee and as requested, meetings of 
the Governing Body illustrating the buffer requirements and allowed zone districts.  
 
Additional Analysis 
 
Sunset Clause: 
 
Enabling Language: 
 
Section 3 of the proposed ordinance adds a new subsection c.4 to subsection d. This subsection 
allows a use that was previously approved but is later reclassified as a Special Use through a 
 
Code amendment, to continue operating for a period of time established by the adopting 
ordinance. After that period expires, the use must obtain Special Use approval to continue 
operating. 
 
Sunset Date Defined: 
 
Section 10 of the proposed ordinance requires compliance with these new regulations for uses 
that were previously classified as “Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation Services—Other” and 
as a result of the ordinance classified as “Gaming Center” by December 31, 2027. The sunset date 
parallels legislation passed during the 2026 legislative budget session (Senate File 45 / Enrolled 
Act 51) which allows current approvals to run through December 31, 2027, and requires the 
facilities be subject to City approval after July 1, 2027. Under the legislation, local governments 
may deny continued approval only upon a showing of good cause. The goal of the Special Use 
approval is to compliment the licensing approval and strengthen ties to development-specific 
review criteria.     
 
Discussion on Sunset Period: 
 
Financially, the scale of the existing industry also supports the reasonableness of the proposed 
amortization period. Based on Wyoming’s one percent tax on gaming handle, the combined 
annual handle of the existing facilities in the corporate limits of Cheyenne is estimated at 
approximately $640 million (based on FY2025 budget revenue). Using a rough estimated 
operator take of approximately nine percent, the facilities collectively may generate gross 
gaming revenue in the range of approximately $57.6 million annually, although actual figures 
may vary based on gaming volume and payout rates. Even at lower estimated take rates of six 
percent, collective operator revenue would still approximate $38.4 million annually. These figures 
indicate that the facilities have substantial ongoing revenue generation capacity during the 
transition period. Not included in this calculation is any revenue that is dedicated to supporting 
the local horse racing ecosystem like funding prize money for State horse racing tracks. 
Significant information regarding revenue. Additional information regarding pari-mutual 
wagering and historic horse racing was prepared for the 2026 Wyoming State Legislature and 
that information is online here: https://wyoleg.gov/InterimCommittee/2024/02-
20240507HollandAndHart-PariMutuelWageringHHR.pdf.  
 
Sunset periods for nonconforming uses typically consider factors such as the character of the 
use, the extent of permanent investment, the portability of equipment, the time already spent in 
operation, and the ability of the operator to recover investment costs. Cheyenne’s historic horse 
racing facilities differ from typical nonconforming commercial uses (like an automotive shop in a 
residential neighborhood) because the primary operational assets consist of electronic gaming 
terminals rather than permanent physical infrastructure. Electronic gaming terminals are 
 
depreciating assets, portable, and able to be moved from location to location. Staff believes this 
sunset period is appropriate for gaming center uses.   
 
RE Regional Entertainment Overlay District Boundaries: 
 
A new Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District is proposed and extends to four areas of the 
community to encourage urban and infill development and support redevelopment 
opportunities in evolving and transitioning corridors within the City. Also, the designated areas 
promote development that leverages proximity to regional destinations, major transportation 
corridors, and interchange areas to attract visitors, support economic activity, and increase 
vitality across a range of urban contexts. Attached is a map identifying the areas where the 
overlay district will be established. In the event land areas are annexed and within the area 
defined as being within the overlay district, they will be zoned concurrent with annexation.   
 
Permitted Uses:  
 
Within the overlay district Gaming Center; Bars and Liquor Stores; Restaurants; Entertainment, 
Venue (1000+ maximum occupancy); Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation, Other; 
Campground; and Recreational Vehicle Park will also be uses by right. Present permissibility is 
detailed below: 
 
Present Permissibility in Affected Zone Districts 
Use MUB CB LI HI 
Gaming Center - - - - 
Restaurants (Food Service) P P   
Bars and Liquor Stores C C   
Entertainment, Venue (1000+ maximum occupancy) C A C  
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation, Other C C C C 
Campground   P  
Recreational Vehicle Park   P  
(A=Administrative approval; C= Conditional Use approval; P = Permitted Use)  
 
Attachments: 
 
1. Ordinance 
2. Redlined Ordinance 
3. Overlay District Map 
4. Enrolled Act 51 (Senate File 45)  
5. May 18, 2026, Planning Commission Staff Report 
 
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: "AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 1.3.11 NONCONFORMITIES; 1.4.4 
DEFINITIONS; 1.4.5 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING MAP; 2.2.7 
SPECIAL USE APPROVAL; 5.1.2 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; 
AND 5.1.4 USE TABLE; AND CREATING 5.6.10 REGIONAL 
ENTERTAINMENT (RE) OVERLAY DISTRICT) AND 5.7.13 GAMING 
CENTER DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND SETTING AN 
EFFECTIVE DATE FOR COMPLIANCE.” 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1. That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
that is the subject of this ordinance meets the criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the Unified 
Development Code of the City of Cheyenne (UDC). 
 
Section 2. That on May 18, 2026, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing, 
reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text amendment. 
 
Section 3. That Section 1.3.11 of the UDC is amended to add the following definitions and 
read as shown in Exhibit A, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
1.3.11 Nonconformances 
c.  Nonconforming Uses. Use of land or buildings that legally existed prior to the adoption 
or amendment of this code, but which could not be commenced under the terms of this 
code or subsequent amendment are considered legal nonconforming uses. A legal 
nonconforming use may continue to exist subject to the following: 
1.  Expansion of a legal nonconforming use requires Board approval in accordance 
with the procedures and criteria in Article 2 for conditional uses. 
2.  The use may be changed to a lesser nonconforming use, either in extent or 
intensity, if the Director determines that the impacts of the new use are less than 
those of the existing nonconforming use. Accommodating the new use shall not 
increase any other non-conformances that may exist. 
3.  If the legal nonconforming use ceases its operation for a continuous period of 
one year, it shall not be reopened and the building or structure where such use 
previously existed shall be used only for a conforming use.  
4. Where a previously lawful use becomes classified as a Special Use through 
amendment of this Code, the use may continue for a period established by the 
adopting ordinance, after which Special Use approval shall be required to continue 
operation.  
Page 2 of 8 
 
Section 4. That Section 1.4.4 of the UDC is amended to add the following definitions and 
read as shown in Exhibit B, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
1.4.4.c  Definitions  
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation Services—Other.  A Service use primarily engaged in the 
operation of indoor or outdoor entertainment, amusement and recreation services not elsewhere 
classified, such as off-track betting, indoor or outdoor shooting range, amusement parks, or similar 
sports or recreation venues. 
Gaming Center. A Gaming Center is an establishment primarily dedicated to wagering on live or 
historic horse races through pari-mutuel or electronic systems, or other lawful wagering activities 
conducted in accordance with state or federal law. The use includes dedicated wagering areas, 
electronic terminals, and administrative space, often featuring ancillary amenities such as lounges, 
food and beverage service, and the on -premises sale of alcoholic beverages. This definition 
specifically excludes family-style game centers, arcades, or venues where the primary use consists 
of amusement -only or skill -based machines. Furthermore, it does not include incidental or 
temporary fundraising activities such as nonprofit bingo, charitable raffles, or similar occasiona l 
social gaming events that do not constitute regulated professional gambling. 
Section 5. That Section 1.4.5 of the UDC is amended to read: 
 
1.4.5 Interpretation of Zoning Map 
Where uncertainty exists with respect to any of the boundaries of a zoning district as shown on the 
zoning map, the following rules shall apply: 
a.  Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerlines of 
streets or highways or railroad right -of-way lines or the lines extended, they shall be 
construed to be the boundaries.   
b. Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the corporate limit line 
of the City, the corporate limit line shall be construed to be the boundaries.  
c. Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines or the 
lines extended, the property lines or the lines extended shall be construed to be the 
boundaries.  
d. Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of stream 
beds or riverbeds, the centerlines shall be construed to be the boundaries.  
e. Where district boundaries are indicated on unplatted properties, the line shall be interpreted 
as the ten (10) acre tract line created by the federal government under the Public Lands 
Survey, unless otherwise noted.  
f. Each zoning map page indicates from quarter section to four sections, with most pages 
showing only one section. When the zoning district designation is not shown on the section 
line or the edge boundary on any individual map, it shall be construed to be th e edge 
boundary. 
g. Where a boundary is defined by a specific distance or radius from a feature or line, and 
uncertainty arises as to whether a property or structure falls within that boundary, the 
Page 3 of 8 
 
burden of proof shall rest with the landowner. The landowner shall provide a survey, 
certified by a surveyor licensed in the State of Wyoming, to definitively establish the 
boundary location relative to the subject property. This survey shall be submitted to the 
Director for review, shall serve as the controlling document for determination, and shall be 
prepared at the sole expense of the landowner. 
 
Section 5. That Section 1.4.5 of the UDC is amended to read: 
 
2.2.7  Special Use Approval 
a. Intent. A special use approval process is intended to provide flexibility for different uses 
within a zoning district, and specifically allow the potential for additional uses that due to 
their varying design and operational characteristics may not be generally ap propriate in a 
zoning district, but require case-specific review to determine the compatibility of the use, 
the associated site design, and the operational characteristics with surrounding uses and 
development patterns.  
b. Applicability. An application for a special use may be initiated by the property owner or 
authorized agent for any use permissible as a “special use” within an existing or pending 
zoning district under this Code. An application for a special use may be initiated by the 
property owner or authorized agent for any use requiring a “special use” approval in these 
regulations.  
c. Specific Procedures. Special use approval has the following specific procedures:  
1. Pre-application Conference. A pre-application conference is not required., but may 
be used to discuss planning and engineering issues, and specific application 
procedures and requirements for a formal application and coordination of the 
Special Use Permit request with the Site Plan Review Process. 
2. Staff Review. Upon receipt of a formal application staff will conduct an internal 
review and may forward copies of the application to any pertinent external agencies 
for review and comment. 
(a) Complete Application . Within seven (7) days of submittal of the 
application, staff shall determine whether the application is complete 
according to official application requirements. Staff shall notify the 
applicant in writing of any deficiencies in incomplete applications giving 
directions and deadlines to cure deficiencies. Staff shall schedule 
complete applications for consideration of  the City Council between 15 
and 60 days of the determination of a complete application. Staff shall 
schedule complete applications for formal internal review subject to the 
criteria in this section and any additional criteria required by the use. 
(b) Notice. Prior to Review by the City Council the following Notice notice 
shall occur: 
(1) Posted Notice. Prior to a recommendation, staff shall provide one 
sign for each road front agefrontage indicating that there is a pending 
development application. The applicant shall ensure that this sign is 
posted on each road frontage on the property for at least seven (7) 
Page 4 of 8 
 
days prior to the recommendationCity Council introduction. When 
the applicant has made all reasonable and good faith efforts to 
maintain posted notice, failure of this posted notice will not be 
grounds to invalidate the application 
(2) Published Notice.  Notice shall be published in a newspaper of 
general circulation and posted to the City of Cheyenne website at 
least 15 days prior to City Council introduction indicating the 
general location of the property, the nature of the application, the 
location for further information on that application, and the date, 
time and location of City Council and City Council Committee 
consideration. Notice of resolution introduction and referral is not 
required. 
(1)(3) Mailed Notice. All owners within 300’ of subject property 
shall be mailed notice indicating the general location of the property, 
the nature of the application, the location for further information on 
that application, and the dates of City Council and City Council 
Committee consideration. Notice of resolution introduction and 
referral is not required. When mailed notice is properly addressed 
based on the latest property information and deposited in the mail at 
least 15 days prior to City Council introduction, failure of a party to 
receive such notice will not be grounds to invalidate any action 
taken. 
(c) Staff Recommendation . Upon review according to the criteria in this 
section, and between 7 and 30 days of the determination of a complete 
application, the Director shall take one of the following actions  and 
afterward place the application on the next available City Council agenda: 
(1) Recommend approval of the application  and place on the next 
available City Council agenda; or 
(2) Recommend approval of the application with specific conditions or 
modifications and place on the next available City Council Agenda; 
or 
(3) Recommend Denial of the application and state specific reasons for 
denial.  denial and place on the next available City Council Agenda. 
3. City Council Consideration. The City Council shall consider the application in the 
form of a resolution. The City Council may approve, deny, or approve the 
application with reasonable conditions as deemed necessary to protect the public 
health, safety, and welfare and to ensure compliance with applicable City standards 
and requirements.Approval and Acceptance. Upon recommendation of the Staff, 
the application shall be scheduled for approval by the City Council at the next 
regular meeting. At this meeting City Council shall review the application subject 
to the criteria of this section and criteria for the special use and: 
(a) Approve the Special Use Permit; 
Page 5 of 8 
 
(b) Approve the Special Use Permit with specific conditions or modifications. 
Conditions or modifications shall be:   
(1) to better meet standards and review criteria; or 
(2) to address situations created by or aggravated by the proposed 
application, and which conditions are roughly proportional to the 
impacts of the proposed development; 
(c) Deny the Special Use Permit. 
4. Effect of Decision. The decision of the Governing Body is the final decision  City 
Council shall be final. Approval by the City Council shall be valid for a period not 
to exceed three years and shall terminate concurrently with the expiration of theany 
applicable license. Denial of the application shall bar  any application for a special 
use that is not substantially different for at least one year. Any application that has 
not established the Special Use within 1 year shall be void. 
d. Review Criteria.  In reviewing and making a decision on the a Special Use Permit, the 
Governing Body and Staff staff and City Council shall consider: 
1. Whether the use meets applicable provisions of the UDC, including applicable 
development and design standards. In meeting these criteria, the reviewing body 
may consider design standards contained in the UDC that are not otherwise 
applicable in the zoning district, where the Design Objectives associated with such 
standards are relevant to the specific situation under review.  
1.2.Whether the operating characteristics of the use are complimentary to the character 
of the surrounding area in terms of hours of operation, visible and audible impacts, 
and traffic patterns caused by the use; 
2.3.Whether the The suitability of the subject property for the use, compared with the 
suitability of the subject property for other uses permitted by right in the zoning 
district; 
3.4.Whether the specific application of the use to the site supports the general intent 
and applicability of the zoning district, and does not compromise the general intent 
and applicability of adjacent zoning districts; 
4.5.The duration of the proposed Special Use relevant to the applicability requirements 
of this sectionthe zoning district and adjacent zoning districts; 
5.6.Whether any additional site -specific conditions associated with the application are 
warranted and sufficient to prevent any potential harm to the public health, safety 
or general welfare; 
6. The Review and recommendations of other reviewing bodies; 
7. Whether the use is in conflict with other applicable   regulations, including City, 
State or Federal regulations; 
8. The adequacy of infrastructure supporting the site. 
9. Whether the proposed use contributes demonstrable public benefits, including but 
not limited to affordable housing, additional recreational opportunities, 
preservation or provision of open space, cultural amenities, or other improvements 
that serve the general welfare of the community. 
Page 6 of 8 
 
Section 6. That Section 5.1.2 of the UDC is amended as shown in Exhibit C, which is 
attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
5.1.2   Zoning Districts Established 
 
The following zoning districts are established: 
 
Section 7. That Section 5.1.4 of the UDC is amended as shown in Exhibit D, which is 
attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Section 8. That Section 5.6.10 of the UDC is created to read:  
 
5.6.10 Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District 
a. Intent. The Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District is intended to encourage urban 
and infill development and support redevelopment opportunities in evolving and 
transitioning corridors within the City. The district promotes development that leverages 
proximity to regional destinations, major transportation corridors, and interchange areas to 
attract visitors, support economic activity, and increase vitality across a range of urban 
contexts. 
b. Applicability. The RE Overlay District applies to the following areas: 
1. West 15th. All lots, parcels, and tracts of land located completely or partially within 
the area bounded by the alley between 15th Street and Lincolnway on the north, 
Capitol Avenue on the east, the Union Pacific Railroad on the south, and Bent 
Avenue on the west. 
2. Reed Rail Corridor. All lots, parcels, and tracts of land adjacent to the Burlington 
Northern or Union Pacific Rail Line within the area bounded by 23rd Street on the 
north, Bent Avenue on the east, the Union Pacific Railroad on the south, and Snyder 
Avenue and an extension of Snyder Avenue south to its intersection with the Union 
Pacific Railroad on the west. 
3. West Lincolnway. All lots, parcels, and tracts of land lying within two hundred 
(200) feet of each side of the West Lincolnway right -of-way, from Crow Creek 
westward to the corporate limits of the City. The standards, requirements, and 
regulations of the RE Overlay District shall apply to the entirety of any lot, parcel, 
or tract meeting the foregoing locational criteria; provided, however, that in no 
instance shall the permitted use extend beyond three hundred and fifty (350) feet of 
the West Lincolnway ri ght-of-way, as measured perpendicularly from said right -
of-way line. 
4. High Plains Road Interchange. All lots, parcels, and tracts of land within the 
corporate limits of the City and adjacent to the Interstate 25 right-of-way and lying 
within 3,000 feet of the centerline of High Plains Road, as measured along the 
Interstate 2 5 right -of-way from said centerline. For purposes of determining 
adjacency, an intervening railroad right -of-way or State -owned land shall not be 
construed to break or interrupt adjacency to the Interstate 25 right -of-way. The 
Page 7 of 8 
 
standards, requirements, and regulations of the RE Overlay District shall apply to 
the entirety of any lot, parcel, or tract meeting the foregoing locational criteria; 
provided, however, that in no instance shall the permitted use extend beyond 2,500 
feet of the Interstate 25 right-of-way, as measured perpendicularly from said right-
of-way. Any subsequent relocation, reconstruction, or realignment of High Plains 
Road or Interstate 25 shall not alter the boundaries of the overlay district. 
c. Context. This district is most appropriate in areas with existing or future urban 
development patterns. 
d. Permissible Uses.  All uses allowed in the underlying zoning district are allowed as 
indicated in Table 5 -1. Notwithstanding Table 5 -1, Gaming Centers shall be a Permitted 
Use within the RE Overlay District. 
e. Site and Building Design Standards.  All uses shall be subject to the development 
standards of the underlying zone district. 
Section 9.  That Section 5.7.13 of the UDC be created to read:  
 
5.7.13  Gaming Centers 
In districts where a Gaming Center is allowed, a Gaming Center shall meet the following standards 
in addition to all other lot and building standards for the underlying district. 
a. In Community Business – CB and Central Business District – CBD: 
1. Be located five hundred (500) feet from any elementary or secondary school, child 
care center operating as the sole primary use of an independent structure, place of 
worship, or public park or recreation facility.  Measurement shall be made in a 
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or streets, from the nearest 
exterior wall of the premises or structure housing the off-track betting facility to the 
nearest exterior wall of the primary structure of a place of worship, school, or child 
care center, or to the nearest property line of a public park or recreation facility. 
2. Be adjacent to a Collector, Minor Arterial, or Principal Arterial street. Access to a 
Collector, Minor Arterial, or Principal Arterial street is not required. 
b. In the RE Overlay District:  
1. For properties developed within the Reed Rail Corridor, the primary pedestrian 
entrance to the Gaming Center shall be oriented toward the Reed Rail Corridor. 
Exceptions may be approved through the Administrative Adjustment process if the 
Director finds tha t a pedestrian entrance oriented toward the Reed Rail Corridor 
cannot be reasonably accommodated due to conditions specific to the property.    
 
Section 10. That any legally established use that becomes classified as a Special Use as a 
result of this ordinance shall be authorized to continue operations through December 31, 2027, 
after which the use shall obtain Special Use approval pursuant to UDC Section 2.2.7 or cease 
operation. 
 
 
Page 8 of 8 
 
Section 11. Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any of t he remaining 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
 Section 12. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
 
(SEAL) 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
EXHIBIT A
EXHIBIT A
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBITEXHIBIT B B
EXHIBIT B
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 2
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
e. Ensur e that all standards are in accordance with the 
Comprehensive Plan of the City, or any official specific area 
plan or program adopted under the Comprehensive Plan.
5.1.2   Z oning Districts Established
The following zoning districts are established:
Rural and Agriculture Districts
AG Agricultural 
AR Agricultural Residential
RR Rural Residential
Residential Neighborhood Districts
LR Low-density Residential
MR Medium-density Residential
HR High-density Residential
NR-1 Neighborhood Residential  - Moderate Density
NR-2 Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density
NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density
Commercial and Mixed-Use districts
NB Neighborhood Business
CB Community Business
CBD Central Business District
MUR Mixed-Use Residential Emphasis
MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis
MUE Mixed-Use Employment Emphasis
BP Business Park
Industrial Districts
LI Light Industrial
HI Heavy Industrial
Special Purpose and Overlay Districts
P Public District
PUD Planned Unit Development
AD Airport District
SS Support Services
M Military
AHR Airport Height and Use Restrictions
CHR State Capitol Height Restrictions
Article 5   Zoning regulAtions
5.1 G eneral Provisions
5.2 Rur al and Agriculture Districts Standards
5.3 R esidential Neighborhood Districts Standards
5.4 C ommercial and Mixed-Use Districts 
Standards
5.5 I ndustrial Districts Standards
5.6 Special P urpose and Overlay Districts 
Standards
5.7 Specific U se Standards 
5.8 Supplemen tal Provisions 
5.1 g enerAl Provisions
5.1.1 Purpose
5.1.2 Z oning Districts Established
5.1.3 O fficial Zoning Map
5.1.4 Distr icts and Uses
5.1.5 R esidential Building and Lot Types
5.1.1 Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to:
a. Establish distr icts to regulate and restrict the erection, 
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, or use of 
buildings, structures or land.
b. D evelop standards for various classes or kinds of buildings 
permitted within each district, including scale, mass and 
orientation to lots and streets.
c. D evelop standards to ensure the compatibility of building 
types and permitted uses within districts consistent with 
the character of the district and its particular suitability for 
particular uses.
d. D evelop standards to ensure the compatibility and 
transitions between different districts, and to ensure 
the compatibility and transitions with public areas and 
development patterns established in Article 4, Subdivision 
Regulations.
unified develoPment code
EXHIBIT C
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 3
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
that make the use compatible with certain districts. These 
cannot be included in the general categories and they require 
the approval process as indicated. Applicants and staff will 
need to work closely together in determining the appropriate 
category for a specific use.
Uses are allowed in various zoning districts as either “permitted 
by right” (P), “permitted after administrative review” (A), or 
“permitted after conditional discretionary review” (C), as 
indicated in Table 5-1.  The procedures and general criteria for 
these reviews are included in Article 2.  
RE Regional Entertainment
RUCAO Restricted Use Control Area Overlay District
UU Urban Use Overlay District
Form-based Code Districts*
T-1 Natural
T-2 Rural
T-3 Suburban
T-4 General Urban
T-5 Urban Center
T-6 Urban Core
D District
CS Civic Space
*  F orm-based code districts are subject to a Regulating Plan, and the 
procedures and district standards in Article 7.  Each district may further be 
limited with respect to uses by L (limited), R (restricted), and O (open) based 
on a specific Regulating Plan.
5.1.3   O fficial Zoning Map
The boundaries of the zoning districts in the City are established 
as shown on a map entitled City of Cheyenne zoning map. The 
City of Cheyenne zoning map is on file and maintained at the 
office of the City Engineer. The City of Cheyenne zoning map 
will bear the signature of the City Engineer, and will be updated 
in accordance with such zoning ordinance amendments as may 
be enacted from time to time by the governing body. The City 
of Cheyenne zoning map, as amended, together with the most 
recently adopted edition of the FEMA flood insurance rate map, 
including the designation of zoning districts are incorporated 
in this code. Copies of the map are on file at the office of the 
City Clerk and development office. Any conflict among the 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the most recent update on 
file at the office of the City Engineer.  Any conflicts between the 
FEMA flood insurance rate maps and the City or County zoning 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the FEMA flood insurance rate 
maps.
5.1.4   D istricts and Uses 
Uses have been grouped in general categories, wherever 
possible. The categories are meant to allow discretion in 
determining permitted uses. Some uses are more specifically 
listed because of anticipated impacts associated with the use 
which warrant special treatment with respect to which district 
they are allowed in or special review procedures and standards 
EXHIBIT C
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 3
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
category for a specific use.
Uses are allowed in various zoning districts as either “permitted 
by right” (P), “permitted after administrative review” (A), or 
“permitted after conditional discretionary review” (C), or 
“permitted after special use review” (S)  as indicated in Table 
5-1. Uses, including those ‘permitted by right’ , typically require 
site plans and building permits to be lawfully established.  The 
procedures and general criteria for these reviews are included 
in Article 2.  
*  F orm-based code districts are subject to a Regulating Plan, and the 
procedures and district standards in Article 7.  Each district may further be 
limited with respect to uses by L (limited), R (restricted), and O (open) based 
on a specific Regulating Plan.
5.1.3   O fficial Zoning Map
The boundaries of the zoning districts in the City are established 
as shown on a map entitled City of Cheyenne zoning map. The 
City of Cheyenne zoning map is on file and maintained at the 
office of the City Engineer. The City of Cheyenne zoning map 
will bear the signature of the City Engineer, and will be updated 
in accordance with such zoning ordinance amendments as may 
be enacted from time to time by the governing body. The City 
of Cheyenne zoning map, as amended, together with the most 
recently adopted edition of the FEMA flood insurance rate map, 
including the designation of zoning districts are incorporated 
in this code. Copies of the map are on file at the office of the 
City Clerk and development office. Any conflict among the 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the most recent update on 
file at the office of the City Engineer.  Any conflicts between the 
FEMA flood insurance rate maps and the City or County zoning 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the FEMA flood insurance rate 
maps.
5.1.4   D istricts and Uses 
Uses have been grouped in general categories, wherever 
possible. The categories are meant to allow discretion in 
determining permitted uses. Some uses are more specifically 
listed because of anticipated impacts associated with the use 
which warrant special treatment with respect to which district 
they are allowed in or special review procedures and standards 
that make the use compatible with certain districts. These 
cannot be included in the general categories and they require 
the approval process as indicated. Applicants and staff will 
need to work closely together in determining the appropriate 
EXHIBIT D
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 4
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
P = Use permitted by right A = U se permitted after administrative review  C = U se permitted after conditional discretionary review   
S = Use permitted after special use review      (blank = pr ohibited use)  
tAble 5-1:  Zoning district uses
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Residential Uses
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Detached Dwelling P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”) P P P P P P P P P P
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse”) P P P P P P P P
Cottage Lots C C C C P P P P P P
Group Housing C C C C C C C C C C C C C C P
Dormitories C A P P P P
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”) C P
P/C P C
P/C P P P
Live/Work C P C A P P P P P P C P
Mixed-use Dwelling P P P P P P C P
Accessory Dwelling A A A A A A A A A A A A P
Urban Loft Building C P C C C P P
Manufactured housing parks C C C C P
Civic Uses
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy) C C C C C C A A A A A P C C A A A C P
Community Assembly (350  - 1000  maximum occupancy) A A P C C A A A C P
Cemeteries A A A P C C A A A P
Primary and secondary schools C C C C C C C C C A A P P A A A C P
Educational facilities P P P A A C P
Community Athletic Field C C C C C C A A P A A A P P
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium C C C C C P P
Service Uses
Service Business - Limited P P P A P P P P
Service Business - General C P P C C P P
Assisted Living / Nursing Home C C C C C A C C C C C P P P P P
Animal Care - Kennel P C P P P P
Animal Care – Hospital / Clinic C C C P C C P
Family Child Care Home (FCCH) P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Family Child Care Center (FCCC) A A A A A A A A A P P P A P P P
Child Care Center (CCC) A C A C C C C C C P P P C P P P P
Emergency Shelter P C
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C P P P A C P P P P                               
EXHIBIT D
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 5
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Services Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C C C C C A C C A C C C P P
Entertainment, Venue (1000+ maximum occupancy) C C C A A C A C C P P
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation—Other C C C C P C C C C C C P
Gaming Center S S
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast P A A C C C C A P P P P P
Lodging, Hotel / Motel P P P P P P
Campground C C P C P
Recreational Vehicle Park C C P C P
Medical Care, Clinic and Office P P P C P P P P
Medical Care, Hospital P P P P
Mini Storage C C P C P P C C P
Storage, Yard C P C P
Employment Uses P
Home occupations P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Office – Limited (<3,500) C A C A P P P P P P P P P P
Office – general (3,500 – 20K) C C P P P P A P P P P
Office – Major Office Complex (>20K) P P P P P P P P
Commercial Uses
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k) P P P P A P P P P
Neighborhood Retail (2K - 5K) P P P P A P P P P
General Retail (5K -  25K) P P P P A P P
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K) P P P P C P P
Warehouse Retail (> 100K) P P P P P P
Grocery Store <45K P P P P P P P P
Supermarket  > 45K P P P P C P P
Outdoor Sales, Limited A P A A A A C P
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales C C C C C P
Bars and liquor stores C C P A C C P P
Automobile Service Repair C P C P P C C P P
Automobile Service Station - Limited C P C P P C C P P P
EXHIBIT D
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 6
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Commercial Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Automobile Service Station - General P C P P C P P
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale C C P P P
Food Service – Limited (under 2K) P P P P P P P P P
Food Service – General (2K – 4K) C P P P P P P P
Food Service – Large-scale (over 4k) P P P P P P
Industrial Uses
Data Center C C C P P C P P
Limited Industrial A A P P P P A P P P P
Moderate Industrial C P P C P P P
General Industrial C P P C
Industrial C C C
Limited Outdoor Storage P P C A P C
Outdoor Storage C P C C
Impoundment Yards P P C C C
Salvage yards C C C
Junk yards C C
Air cargo terminals P C
Aircraft sales, repair, service, storage and relating uses P C
Railroad yards and maintenance buildings P P P C
Oil and Gas Support Services S
Public Service Uses
Commercial and Public Parking Facility P P P P P P
Government Facility P P P P P P P P P P P P
Military P P
Recycling Services C P P C C C P
Transportation facilities C P P P P P P
Utility Stations A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A P A P
Agriculture Uses
General Agriculture P P P
Limited Agriculture P P P P
Agricultural equipment or product sales C P
Commercial stables, arenas, and show barns C C P
Nurseries, landscaping P P C P P C P
EXHIBIT D
Regional Entertainment Overlay District Areas 
High Plains Interchange 
 
  

Reed Rail and W 15th Street: 
 
  

West Lincolnway: 
 
 

 
 
 
 
ORIGINAL SENATE ENGROSSED 
FILE NO. SF0045 
 
ENROLLED ACT NO. 51, SENATE 
 
SIXTY-EIGHTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING 
2026 BUDGET SESSION 
 
 
 
 
   
 1  
 
AN ACT relating to pari-mutuel wagering; specifying 
requirements for simulcasting permits, including historic 
horse racing terminals; requiring approval by a city, town 
or county for the issuance of a simulcasting permit as 
specified; authorizing conditions and revocation of 
approval; authorizing appeals; amending enforcement 
requirements; conforming provisions; specifying 
applicability; and providing for an effective date. 
 
Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Wyoming: 
 
Section 1.  W.S. 11-25-210 is created to read: 
 
11-25-210.  Simulcasting permits; rulemaking; local 
approval; permit conditions; revocation; judicial review. 
 
(a)  Simulcasting shall be conducted only by a person 
holding a simulcasting permit issued by the commission and 
approved by the local approving authority under this 
section.   
 
(b)  The commission shall promulgate rules for 
simulcasting that are reasonably necessary to protect the 
public interest. 
 
(c)  A simulcasting permit is a type of pari-mutuel 
event permit and, except as specifically provided for in 
this section, is subject to the same terms and conditions, 
and shall be issued and renewed by the commission in the 
same manner as pari-mutuel event permits issued under this 
act. 
 
(d)  A simulcasting permit issued or renewed by the 
commission off the permitted premises shall be subject to 
the following: 
 
 
 
 
ORIGINAL SENATE ENGROSSED 
FILE NO. SF0045 
 
ENROLLED ACT NO. 51, SENATE 
 
SIXTY-EIGHTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING 
2026 BUDGET SESSION 
 
 
 
 
 2  
 
 
(i)  If the simulcasting will be conducted within 
the corporate limits of any city or town the permit or 
renewal shall be subject to approval by the governing body 
of that city or town, subject to paragraph (iii) of this 
subsection; 
 
(ii)  If the simulcasting will be conducted 
outside the corporate limits of any city or town the permit 
or renewal shall be subject to approval by the board of 
county commissioners of the county in which the 
simulcasting will be conducted, subject to paragraph (iii) 
of this subsection; 
 
(iii)  If the simulcasting will be conducted 
within the corporate limits of any city or town, the permit 
or renewal application shall be subject to review and 
objection by the board of county commissioners of the 
county in which the simulcasting will be conducted. If the 
simulcasting will be conducted within one-half (1/2) mile 
of the corporate limits of any city that has exercised the 
authority granted under W.S. 15-3-202(b)(ii), the permit or 
renewal application shall be subject to review and 
objection by the governing body of that city or town. Any 
city, town or county that objects under this paragraph 
shall submit written findings stating the basis for the 
objection, including impacts on land use, public safety, 
taxation or other substantial interests. The objection 
shall be transmitted to the local approving authority 
within thirty (30) days of the objecting city, town or 
county receiving the permit or renewal application. An 
objection shall be deemed addressed once the local 
approving authority places it on a public agenda, considers 
the written findings and takes formal action to sustain, 
modify or overrule the objection. No permit or renewal 
 
 
 
 
ORIGINAL SENATE ENGROSSED 
FILE NO. SF0045 
 
ENROLLED ACT NO. 51, SENATE 
 
SIXTY-EIGHTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING 
2026 BUDGET SESSION 
 
 
 
 
 3  
 
shall be approved until all timely submitted objections 
have been addressed; 
 
(iv)  No simulcasting may be conducted within one 
hundred (100) miles of any live pari-mutuel event permitted 
under this act during the time the event is being held, 
except that the commission may waive the one hundred (100) 
mile limitation if the simulcasting permitholder obtains 
written approval from the live pari-mutuel event 
permitholder conducting the event; 
 
(v)  A simulcasting permit or renewal shall be 
issued by the commission only to an applicant authorized 
under this act to conduct a pari-mutuel event other than 
simulcasting; 
 
(vi)  Except as provided by paragraph (e)(ii) of 
this section, counties, towns and municipalities shall not 
charge a monetary fee to obtain a simulcasting permit or 
renewal that exceeds the actual costs of issuing the permit 
or renewal. 
 
(e)  An applicant for a simulcasting permit or renewal 
shall: 
 
(i)  File an application for approval with the 
local approving authority. Renewal applications shall be 
filed not later than ninety (90) days prior to expiration 
of the permit; 
 
(ii)  At the time of filing the application, pay 
an amount sufficient to reimburse the actual cost of 
publishing notice of the application; 
 
 
 
 
 
ORIGINAL SENATE ENGROSSED 
FILE NO. SF0045 
 
ENROLLED ACT NO. 51, SENATE 
 
SIXTY-EIGHTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING 
2026 BUDGET SESSION 
 
 
 
 
 4  
 
(iii)  Identify in the application the specific 
location in the city, town or county where simulcasting 
will be conducted and the number of historic horse racing 
terminals to be permitted at that location. 
 
(f)  After receipt of an approval or renewal 
application, the local approving authority shall promptly 
prepare and publish notice of the application in a 
newspaper of general circulation in the state once a week 
for two (2) consecutive weeks and shall post the notice on 
its official website. The notice shall state that the named 
applicant has applied for approval or renewal of a 
simulcasting permit, that protests against the issuance or 
renewal of the permit, if any, will be heard at a 
designated meeting of the local approving authority, and 
shall include the date, time and meeting place of the 
designated meeting. For a renewal application, the local 
approving authority shall hold the designated meeting not 
later than thirty (30) days prior to expiration of the 
permit.  
 
(g)  A local approving authority, in considering the 
approval or renewal of simulcasting permits issued by the 
commission: 
 
(i)  Shall not approve or deny an application 
before the date set for the designated meeting in the 
published notice of the application; 
 
(ii)  Shall not consider, modify or impose 
conditions that are solely within the jurisdiction of the 
commission;  
 
 
 
 
 
ORIGINAL SENATE ENGROSSED 
FILE NO. SF0045 
 
ENROLLED ACT NO. 51, SENATE 
 
SIXTY-EIGHTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING 
2026 BUDGET SESSION 
 
 
 
 
 5  
 
(iii)  May impose reasonable conditions on 
approval or renewal, which shall be negotiated in good 
faith with the applicant, including the following: 
 
(A)  A schedule of operating hours for the 
permitted premises, provided the hours of operation shall 
not be more restrictive than the hours of operation for 
alcohol sales set pursuant to W.S. 12-5-101 for the holder 
of a retail liquor license under W.S. 12-4-201; 
 
(B)  Designation of areas within the 
permitted premises where historic horse racing terminals 
may be located, to the extent the designations are not 
inconsistent with rules of the commission. 
 
(iv)  May modify any condition imposed under 
paragraph (iii) of this subsection only upon a showing of 
good cause; 
 
(v)  Shall grant approval for the same term as is 
granted by the commission for the simulcasting permit, if 
the application is approved; 
 
(vi)  Shall issue written findings and 
conclusions if the application is denied; 
  
(vii)  Shall have the right to revoke approval or 
deny a renewal only for good cause, which shall be limited 
to any of the following: 
 
(A)  A breach of a reasonable condition 
imposed by the local approving authority or the commission, 
if the permitholder fails to take reasonable steps to cure 
the breach within ten (10) business days after receiving 
written notice of the breach from the local approving 
 
 
 
 
ORIGINAL SENATE ENGROSSED 
FILE NO. SF0045 
 
ENROLLED ACT NO. 51, SENATE 
 
SIXTY-EIGHTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING 
2026 BUDGET SESSION 
 
 
 
 
 6  
 
authority or the commission, or a date agreed upon by the 
permitholder and the local approving authority or 
commission; 
 
(B)  Notification from the commission that 
the permitholder has been found in violation of any Wyoming 
gaming law specified in this chapter, W.S. 6-7-101 through 
6-7-104 or 9-24-101 through 9-24-106; 
 
(C)  Failure to demonstrate commencement of 
simulcasting at the permitted location within two (2) years 
after the permit is issued. Upon a showing of good cause by 
the permitholder, the local approving authority and 
commission may extend the period for commencement of 
simulcasting for one (1) additional year; 
 
(D)  The welfare of the people residing in 
the vicinity of the permitted premises is adversely and 
seriously affected by the permitted premises.  
 
(h)  A simulcasting permitholder may appeal a denial 
of renewal or revocation of approval by the local approving 
authority to the district court in the county where the 
permitted premises are located. 
 
(j)  An applicant for a new simulcasting permit may 
appeal a decision of the local approving authority to the 
district court in the county where the application is filed 
only if that authority has previously granted approval for 
a simulcasting permit within its jurisdiction.  If the 
local approving authority has not previously granted an 
approval for a simulcasting permit, the applicant shall 
have no right of appeal from the decision of the local 
approving authority.  
 
 
 
 
 
ORIGINAL SENATE ENGROSSED 
FILE NO. SF0045 
 
ENROLLED ACT NO. 51, SENATE 
 
SIXTY-EIGHTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING 
2026 BUDGET SESSION 
 
 
 
 
 7  
 
(k)  Subject to the approval of the local approving 
authority, the transfer of an existing simulcasting permit 
involving a change of location within the same local 
approving authority's area of jurisdiction shall be treated 
as a renewal of a simulcasting permit. A transfer involving 
a change of location outside of the current local approving 
authority's area of jurisdiction shall be treated as a new 
application and shall be subject to all application, review 
and approval requirements applicable to a new simulcasting 
permit. 
 
Section 2.  W.S. 11-25-102(a)(vii)(intro) and by 
creating new paragraphs (xxiii) and (xxiv), 
11-25-104(g)(intro) and 11-25-201(a) are amended to read: 
 
11-25-102.  Definitions. 
 
(a)  As used in this act: 
 
(vii)  "Simulcasting" means the sale of 
pari-mutuel pools electronically transmitted live or 
historic on interstate or intrastate pari-mutuel events as 
prescribed by the commission;. The commission shall 
authorize simulcasting subject to the following conditions: 
 
(xxiii)  "Local approving authority" means the 
local authority with responsibility to approve, deny or 
revoke a site-specific application or renewal for a 
simulcasting permit issued by the commission; 
 
(xxiv)  "Local authority" means the governing 
body of a city, town or county in Wyoming. 
 
 
 
 
 
ORIGINAL SENATE ENGROSSED 
FILE NO. SF0045 
 
ENROLLED ACT NO. 51, SENATE 
 
SIXTY-EIGHTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING 
2026 BUDGET SESSION 
 
 
 
 
 8  
 
11-25-104.  Gaming commission; officers; director; 
meetings; quorum; records; licenses generally; effect of 
financial interest in events. 
 
(g)  The commission may delegate authority to enforce 
rules of the commission and this act to three (3) stewards 
at each live pari-mutuel event, at least one (1) of whom 
shall be an employee of and selected by the commission. The 
commission shall require at least one (1) steward to 
supervise each simulcast location that is approved by the 
commission.  Stewards shall exercise such reasonable and 
necessary authority as is designated by rules of the 
commission including the following: 
 
11-25-201.  Pari-mutuel permits; fees and reports; 
disposition of funds; enforcement of provisions. 
 
(a)  The commission may issue pari-mutuel permits for 
a specified period not to exceed three (3) years from the 
date of issuance to any Wyoming county, city, incorporated 
town, county fair board or any corporation or association 
which that has been approved by the board of county 
commissioners, except as provided for simulcasting permits 
in W.S. 11-25-210, and that provides a bond acceptable to 
the commission. No permit shall be granted to any city, 
town, county, county fair board or any corporation or 
association except upon the express condition that it shall 
not, by any lease, contract, understanding or arrangement 
of whatever kind or nature, grant, assign or turn over to 
any person, corporation or association the operation or 
management of the pari-mutuel event permitted under this 
act or of the pari-mutuel system of wagering or in any 
manner permit any person, corporation or association to 
retain any of the money received for admission to the race 
meeting or from the operations of the pari-mutuel system. 
 
 
 
 
ORIGINAL SENATE ENGROSSED 
FILE NO. SF0045 
 
ENROLLED ACT NO. 51, SENATE 
 
SIXTY-EIGHTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING 
2026 BUDGET SESSION 
 
 
 
 
 9  
 
The commission shall revoke the permit of any permittee for 
any violation of the foregoing condition and such acts are 
a violation of this act. The permit is effective only for 
the times and at the places for which issued. In addition 
to all other fees and charges, there shall be charged 
before issuance of a permit a daily fee established by the 
commission to defray expenses of enforcing this act. 
 
Section 3.  W.S. 11-25-102(a)(vii)(A) through (D) is 
repealed. 
 
Section 4.  
 
(a)  Notwithstanding W.S. 11-25-210, as created by 
this act, a person holding a simulcasting permit as of the 
effective date of this act shall be authorized to continue 
operations through December 31, 2027, subject to the 
conditions of the existing permit and approval. 
 
(b)  Subject to this subsection, on and after July 1, 
2027, a person holding a simulcasting permit as of the 
effective date of this act shall be subject to the 
requirements of W.S. 11-25-210. A city, town or county may 
deny or withhold approval of a simulcasting facility 
permitted as of the effective date of this act, only upon a 
showing of good cause, as specified in W.S. 
11‑25‑210(g)(vii). 
 
 
 
 
 
ORIGINAL SENATE ENGROSSED 
FILE NO. SF0045 
 
ENROLLED ACT NO. 51, SENATE 
 
SIXTY-EIGHTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING 
2026 BUDGET SESSION 
 
 
 
 
 10  
 
Section 5.  This act is effective July 1, 2026. 
 
(END) 
 
 
    
Speaker of the House   President of the Senate 
 
   
 Governor  
   
 TIME APPROVED: _________  
   
 DATE APPROVED: _________  
 
I hereby certify that this act originated in the Senate. 
 
 
 
 
Chief Clerk 
 
 
1 | P a g e  
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF CHEYENNE PLANNING COMMISSION 
MAY 18, 2026 
STAFF REPORT 
REQUEST: A Text Amendment amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) 
amending 1.3.11 Nonconformities; 1.4.4 Definitions; 1.4.5 
Interpretation of Zoning Map; 2.2.7 Special Use Approval; 5.1.2 
Zoning Districts Established; and 5.1.4 Use Table; and creating 5.6.10 
Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District) and 5.7.13 Gaming 
Center Development Standards. 
CASE NUMBER: PLTA-26-1  
PURPOSE: Various Text amendments related to nonconformities, special use 
approvals, and the Use Table and creation of the Regional Entertainment 
overlay District, and development standards for gaming facilities (off-
track betting facilities). 
PREPARED BY: Charles Bloom, AICP, Planner and Development Director  
 
RECOMMENDED MOTION: 
 
Move to recommend the Governing Body approve text amendments to the Unified 
Development Code amending UDC sections 1.3.11 Nonconformities; 1.4.4 Definitions; 1.4.5 
Interpretation of Zoning Map; 2.2.7 Special Use Approval; 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established; 
and 5.1.4 Use Table; and creating 5.6.10 Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District) and 5.7.13 
Gaming Center Development Standards as outlined in this staff report and recommended by 
staff, noting the amendments meet the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
BACKGROUND: 
 
The City’s Unified Development Code (UDC) was adopted by the Governing Body on January 23, 
2012, by Ordinance Number 3943 with an effective date of April 30, 2012.  The Unified Development 
Code is the regulatory document carrying out the vision of PlanCheyenne and is reviewed annually 
pursuant to UDC 1.1.7 [Annual Review Requirement] to determine if any particular standard or 
regulation is timely, relevant and adequately addresses current market conditions. In addition to the 
annual review, the City Council, Planning and Development Director, and City Engineer are 
authorized under UDC 2.4.1.b to bring forward text amendments on their own initiative.  
 
This is a proposed Unified Development Code (UDC) Text amendment for the purpose of amending 
the UDC regarding the special use process and other elements regarding off-track betting facilities.   
 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
2 | P a g e  
  
The amendment will propose modifying multiple sections of the UDC to address the following:  
• Modifications to the Nonconformities section 
• Creation and modification of definitions related to historic horse racing off-track 
betting facilities 
• Amendments to the special use approval process 
• Creation of the Regional Entertainment overlay district  
• Creation of Development Standards related to off-track betting facilities. 
 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT: 
 
Numerous sections of code are proposed for amendment, and each section is summarized below. 
Below is a brief summary followed by the actual text that will be included in the ordinance forwarded 
on to the Governing Body (Note, the UDC refers to the Governing Body as the “City Council” hence 
the reference in the proposed amendment).    
 
 
Summary: 1.3.11 — Nonconformances 
 
The amendments to this section allow for an adopted ordinance to create nonconformities through 
sunset provisions. Sunset provisions are not included in the UDC text amendment—just recognition 
that they could apply if included in the adopting ordinance. Additionally, “legal” has been added to 
“nonconforming” for consistency. 
 
Amendment Text:  
 
1.3.11.c, Nonconformances, Nonconforming Uses. Use of land or buildings that legally 
existed prior to the adoption or amendment of this code, but which could not be 
commenced under the terms of this code or subsequent amendment are considered 
legal nonconforming uses. A legal nonconforming use may continue to exist subject to 
the following: 
1. Expansion of a legal nonconforming use requires Board approval in accordance with 
the procedures and criteria in Article 2 for conditional uses. 
2. The use may be changed to a lesser nonconforming use, either in extent or intensity, 
if the Director determines that the impacts of the new use are less than those of the 
existing nonconforming use. Accommodating the new use shall not increase any 
other non-conformances that may exist. 
3. If the legal nonconforming use ceases its operation for a continuous period of one 
year, it shall not be reopened and the building or structure where such use previously 
existed shall be used only for a conforming use.  
3.4. Where a previously lawful use becomes classified as a Special Use through 
amendment of this Code, the use may continue for a period established by the 
adopting ordinance, after which Special Use approval shall be required to apply for 
necessary approvals to continue operation.  
 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
3 | P a g e  
  
 
Summary: 1.4.4.c, Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings, Service Uses 
 
Two changes are made to the definitions article. Off-track betting is removed from the list of 
example uses within the ‘Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation Services—Other’ definition, as that 
activity is now captured under a newly created ‘Gaming Center’ definition. The ‘Gaming Center’ 
definition describes an establishment primarily dedicated to wagering on live or historic horse races 
through pari-mutuel or electronic systems, or other lawful wagering activities conducted under state 
or federal law, including ancillary amenities such as lounges and food and beverage service. The 
definition expressly excludes family-style arcades, amusement-only venues, and incidental charitable 
fundraising activities such as nonprofit bingo or raffles. 
 
Amendment Text: 
 
1.4.4.c  Service Uses  
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation Services—Other.  A Service use primarily engaged 
in the operation of indoor or outdoor entertainment, amusement and recreation services 
not elsewhere classified, such as off-track betting, indoor or outdoor shooting range, 
amusement parks, or similar sports or recreation venues. 
 
Gaming Center. A Gaming Center is an establishment primarily dedicated to wagering on 
live or historic horse races through pari-mutuel or electronic systems, or other lawful 
wagering activities conducted in accordance with state or federal law. The use includes 
dedicated wagering areas, electronic terminals, and administrative space, often featuring 
ancillary amenities such as lounges, food and beverage service, and the on-premises sale 
of alcoholic beverages. This definition specifically excludes family-style game centers, 
arcades, or venues where the primary use consists of amusement-only or skill-based 
machines. Furthermore, it does not include incidental or temporary fundraising activities 
such as nonprofit bingo, charitable raffles, or similar occasional social gaming events that 
do not constitute regulated professional gambling. 
 
 
Summary: 1.4.5 — Interpretation of Zoning Map 
A new subsection is added establishing a burden-of-proof standard for boundary disputes involving 
distance-based overlay district boundaries. Where uncertainty exists as to whether a property falls 
within such a boundary, the landowner bears the burden of proof and must provide a survey 
certified by a Wyoming-licensed surveyor, submitted to the Director for review, prepared at the sole 
expense of the landowner, and serving as the controlling document for the determination. 
 
Amendment Text: 
 
1.4.5, Interpretation of Zoning Map 
Where uncertainty exists with respect to any of the boundaries of a zoning district as 
shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply: 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
4 | P a g e  
  
a.  Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the 
centerlines of streets or highways or railroad right-of-way lines or the lines 
extended, they shall be construed to be the boundaries.   
b. Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the corporate 
limit line of the City, the corporate limit line shall be construed to be the 
boundaries.  
c. Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines 
or the lines extended, the property lines or the lines extended shall be construed 
to be the boundaries.  
d. Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline 
of stream beds or riverbeds, the centerlines shall be construed to be the 
boundaries.  
e. Where district boundaries are indicated on unplatted properties, the line shall be 
interpreted as the ten (10) acre tract line created by the federal government 
under the Public Lands Survey, unless otherwise noted.  
f. Each zoning map page indicates from quarter section to four sections, with most 
pages showing only one section. When the zoning district designation is not 
shown on the section line or the edge boundary on any individual map, it shall be 
construed to be the edge boundary. 
g. Where a boundary is defined by a specific distance or radius from a feature or 
line, and uncertainty arises as to whether a property or structure falls within that 
boundary, the burden of proof shall rest with the landowner. The landowner shall 
provide a survey, certified by a surveyor licensed in the State of Wyoming, to 
definitively establish the boundary location relative to the subject property. This 
survey shall be submitted to the Director for review, shall serve as the controlling 
document for determination, and shall be prepared at the sole expense of the 
landowner. 
  
 
Summary: 2.2.7, Special Use Approval 
 
Section 2.2.7 is substantially reorganized to reflect similar processes in the Department and 
recognize actual steps taken. Although infrequently used, the written process is not aligned with 
actual process. Amendments have also been made to require public notice and to broaden the 
review criteria to allow for more detailed review of any application- types eligible for Special Use 
review.  
 
New criteria have been added clarifying that the use must meet, and may exceed, UDC development 
requirements. The amendment also adds a review criterion evaluating whether the proposed use 
provides demonstrable public benefits such as affordable housing, recreational opportunities, open 
space, or cultural amenities that serve the general welfare. 
 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
5 | P a g e  
  
Amendment Text: 
 
2.2.7, Special Use Approval 
a. Intent. A special use approval process is intended to provide flexibility for different 
uses within a zoning district, and specifically allow the potential for additional uses that 
due to their varying design and operational characteristics may not be generally 
appropriate in a zoning district, but require case-specific review to determine the 
compatibility of the use, the associated site design, and the operational characteristics 
with surrounding uses and development patterns.  
b. Applicability. An application for a special use may be initiated by the property owner 
or authorized agent for any use permissible as a “special use” within an existing or 
pending zoning district under this Code. An application for a special use may be initiated 
by the property owner or authorized agent for any use requiring a “special use” approval 
in these regulations.  
c. Specific Procedures. Special use approval has the following specific procedures:  
1. Pre-application Conference. A pre-application conference is not required., but 
may be used to discuss planning and engineering issues, and specific application 
procedures and requirements for a formal application and coordination of the 
Special Use Permit request with the Site Plan Review Process. 
2. Staff Review. Upon receipt of a formal application staff will conduct an internal 
review and may forward copies of the application to any pertinent external 
agencies for review and comment.  
(a) Complete Application. Within seven (7) days of submittal of the 
application, staff shall determine whether the application is complete 
according to official application requirements. Staff shall notify the 
applicant in writing of any deficiencies in incomplete applications giving 
directions and deadlines to cure deficiencies. Staff shall schedule 
complete applications for consideration of the City Council between 15 
and 60 days of the determination of a complete application.Staff shall 
schedule complete applications for formal internal review subject to the 
criteria in this section and any additional criteria required by the use.  
(b) Notice. Prior to Review by the City Council the following Notice notice 
shall occur:  
(1) Posted Notice. Prior to a recommendation, staff shall provide 
one sign for each road front agefrontage indicating that there is a 
pending development application. The applicant shall ensure that 
this sign is posted on each road frontage on the property for at 
least seven (7) days prior to the recommendationCity Council 
introduction. When the applicant has made all reasonable and 
good faith efforts to maintain posted notice, failure of this posted 
notice will not be grounds to invalidate the application. 
(2) Published Notice. Notice shall be published in a newspaper of 
general circulation and posted to the City of Cheyenne website at 
least 15 days prior to City Council introduction indicating the 
general location of the property, the nature of the application, the 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
6 | P a g e  
  
location for further information on that application, and the date, 
time and location of City Council and City Council Committee 
consideration. Notice of resolution introduction and referral is not 
required. 
(3) Mailed Notice. All owners within 300’ of subject property shall 
be mailed notice indicating the general location of the property, 
the nature of the application, the location for further information 
on that application, and the dates of City Council and City Council 
Committee consideration. Notice of resolution introduction and 
referral is not required. When mailed notice is properly addressed 
based on the latest property information and deposited in the mail 
at least 15 days prior to City Council introduction, failure of a party 
to receive such notice will not be grounds to invalidate any action 
taken. 
(c) Staff Recommendation. Upon review according to the criteria in this 
section, and between 7 and 30 days of the determination of a complete 
application, the Director shall take one of the following actions and 
afterward place the application on the next available City Council agenda: 
 (1) Recommend approval of the application and place on the next 
available City Council agenda; or  
(2) Recommend approval of the application with specific conditions or 
modifications and place on the next available City Council Agenda; or  
(3) Recommend Denial of the application and state specific reasons for 
denial.  denial and place on the next available City Council Agenda.  
3. City Council Consideration. The City Council shall consider the application in 
the form of a resolution. The City Council may approve, deny, or approve the 
application with reasonable conditions as deemed necessary to protect the public 
health, safety, and welfare and to ensure compliance with applicable City 
standards and requirements.Approval and Acceptance. Upon recommendation of 
the Staff, the application shall be scheduled for approval by the City Council at 
the next regular meeting. At this meeting City Council shall review the application 
subject to the criteria of this section and criteria for the special use and:  
(a) Approve the Special Use Permit;  
(b) Approve the Special Use Permit with specific conditions or modifications. 
Conditions or modifications shall be:   
(1) to better meet standards and review criteria; or  
(2) to address situations created by or aggravated by the proposed application, 
and which conditions are roughly proportional to the impacts of the proposed 
development;  
(c) Deny the Special Use Permit. 
4. Effect of Decision. The decision of the Governing Body is the final decision City 
Council shall be final. Approval by the City Council shall be valid for a period not 
to exceed three years and shall terminate concurrently with the expiration of 
theany applicable license. Denial of the application shall bar any application for a 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
7 | P a g e  
  
special use that is not substantially different for at least one year. Any application 
that has not established the Special Use within 1 year shall be void. 
d. Review Criteria. In reviewing and making a decision on the a Special Use 
Permit, the Governing Body and Staff staff and City Council shall consider: 
1. Whether the use meets applicable provisions of the UDC, including 
applicable development and design standards. In meeting these criteria, 
the reviewing body may consider design standards contained in the UDC 
that are not otherwise applicable in the zoning district, where the Design 
Objectives associated with such standards are relevant to the specific 
situation under review. 
2. Whether the operating characteristics of the use are complimentary to 
the character of the surrounding area in terms of hours of operation, 
visible and audible impacts, and traffic patterns caused by the use; 
2.3 Whether the The suitability of the subject property for the use, 
compared with the suitability of the subject property for other uses 
permitted by right in the zoning district; 
34. Whether the specific application of the use to the site supports the 
general intent and applicability of the zoning district, and does not 
compromise the general intent and applicability of adjacent zoning 
districts; 
45. The duration of the proposed Special Use relevant to the applicability 
requirements of this sectionthe zoning district and adjacent zoning 
districts; 
56. Whether any additional site -specific conditions associated with the 
application are warranted and sufficient to prevent any potential harm to 
the public health, safety or general welfare;  
6. The review and recommendations of other reviewing bodies; 
7. Whether the use is in conflict with other applicable  regulations, 
including City, State or Federal regulations; 
8. The adequacy of infrastructure supporting the site. 
9. Whether the proposed use contributes demonstrable public benefits, 
including but not limited to affordable housing, additional recreational 
opportunities, preservation or provision of open space, cultural amenities, 
or other improvements that serve the general welfare of the community. 
 In this evaluation, City shall include not just operations within the City of 
Cheyenne,  
  
 
  
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
8 | P a g e  
  
Summary: 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established  
 
This section of the UDC identifies all zoning, special purpose and overlay districts of the City. This 
amendment adds the new RE Regional Entertainment Overlay District and recognizes others that 
have been omitted inadvertently in the past including the UU Urban Use and RUCAO – Restricted 
Use Control Area overlay districts.   
 
Amendment Text: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Rural and Agriculture Districts 
AG Agricultural 
AR Agricultural Residential 
RR Rural Residential 
Residential Neighborhood Districts 
LR Low-density Residential 
MR Medium-density Residential 
HR High-density Residential 
NR-1 Neighborhood Residential - Moderate Density 
NR-2 Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density 
NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density 
Commercial and Mixed-Use districts 
NB Neighborhood Business 
CB Community Business 
CBD Central Business District 
MUR Mixed-Use Residential Emphasis 
MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis 
MUE Mixed-Use Employment Emphasis 
BP Business Park 
Industrial Districts 
LI Light Industrial 
HI Heavy Industrial 
Special Purpose and Overlay Districts 
P Public District 
PUD Planned Unit Development 
AD Airport District 
SS Support Services 
M Military 
AHR Airport Height and Use Restrictions 
CHR State Capitol Height Restrictions 
RE Regional Entertainment 
RUCAO Restricted Use Control Area Overlay District 
UU Urban Use Overlay District 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
9 | P a g e  
  
Summary: 5.1.4, Districts and Uses, (Table 5-1: Zoning District Uses) 
 
The Use Table introductory language is amended to add “permitted after special use review” as a 
fourth review designation, alongside the existing permitted by right, administrative review, and 
conditional discretionary review categories. Language is also added clarifying that all uses, including 
those permitted by right, typically require site plans and building permits to be lawfully established. 
‘Gaming Center’ is added as a Special Use in the CB - Community Business and CBD - Central 
Business District zoning districts.  
 
‘Oil and Gas Support Services’ is added as a Special Use in the HI - Heavy Industrial district. ‘Oil and 
Gas Support Services’ presently is allowed as a special use in the HI District pursuant  to 5.8.7 and 
modification to allow it in other zone districts would require other amendments to the UDC. Oil and 
gas support services include service for oil and gas drilling operations such as parking and storage of 
exploration, production or workover equipment, pipe and production equipment, equipment and 
storage yards for road and pipeline construction contractors and production unit setup. 
 
Staff notes that overlay districts are not shown in the Use Table and the exceptions / restrictions / 
allowances are highlighted in the text of the respective overlay district section.   
 
As a housekeeping item, columns related to Planned Unit Development (PUD), Military (M), Airport 
Height Restriction (AHR), and State Capitol Height Restrictions (CHR) are proposed for removal 
because they are not necessary in the Use Table.      
 
Amendment Text: 
 
5.1.4 Districts and Uses 
Uses have been grouped in general categories, wherever possible. The categories are 
meant to allow discretion in determining permitted uses. Some uses are more specifically 
listed because of anticipated impacts associated with the use which warrant special 
treatment with respect to which district they are allowed in or special review procedures 
and standards that make the use compatible with certain districts. These cannot be 
included in the general categories and they require the approval process as indicated. 
Applicants and staff will need to work closely together in determining the appropriate 
category for a specific use. 
 
Uses are allowed in various zoning districts as either “permitted by right” (P), “permitted 
after administrative review” (A), or “permitted after conditional discretionary review” (C), 
or “permitted as after special use review” (S) as indicated in Table 5-1. Uses, including 
those ‘permitted by right’, typically require site plans and building permits to be lawfully 
established. The procedures and general criteria for these reviews are included in  
Article 2.    
 
Gaming Center has been added as a special use in the CB and CBD zoning Districts and 
Oil and Gas Support Services has been added as a Special Use in the HI zoning district. 
The PUD, M, AHR, and CHR district columns are to be deleted from the table, and 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
10 | P a g e  
  
footnotes are to be updated accordingly. A draft Use Table showing the proposed 
amendments is attached. 
 
 
Summary: 5.6.10, Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District (New) 
 
A new Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District is created to encourage urban and infill 
development and support redevelopment in evolving and transitioning corridors within the City, 
leveraging proximity to regional destinations, major transportation corridors, and interchange areas.  
The district applies to four geographic subareas:  
• The West 15th area bounded by the alley between 15th Street and Lincolnway Capitol 
Avenue the Union Pacific Railroad, and Bent Avenue; the Reed Rail Corridor.  
• The Reed Rail Corridor applying to rail-adjacent properties within a defined box bounded by 
23rd Street, Bent Avenue, the Union Pacific Railroad, and Snyder Avenue extended. 
• The West Lincolnway corridor within 200 feet of each side of the right-of-way from Crow 
Creek to the corporate limits, with an absolute 350-foot depth limit. 
• The High Plains Road Interchange, covering Interstate 25-adjacent properties within 3,000 
feet of the High Plains Road centerline as measured along the interstate, with an absolute 
2,500-foot depth limit from the interstate right-of-way. Boundaries for the High Plains 
interchange area are frozen as of adoption and are unaffected by any future realignment of 
either roadway.  
 
All uses permitted in the underlying zoning district will remain allowed. Gaming Center will be an 
additional allowed use in the overlay district and development is subject to the underlying district’s 
site and building design standards. 
 
Also added to the RE Overlay as permitted uses are uses that closely follow the entertainment theme 
such as Bars and Liquor Stores; Restaurants; Entertainment, Venue (1000+ maximum occupancy); 
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation, Other; Campground; and Recreational Vehicle Park. Staff 
notes that ‘Lodging, hotels/motels’ will still require a base zone allowing them to ensure they are 
developed in accordance with development standards.   
 
Amendment Text: 
 
5.6.10 Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District 
a. Intent. The Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District is intended to encourage 
urban and infill development and support redevelopment opportunities in 
evolving and transitioning corridors within the City. The district promotes 
development that leverages proximity to regional destinations, major 
transportation corridors, and interchange areas to attract visitors, support 
economic activity, and increase vitality across a range of urban contexts. 
  
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
11 | P a g e  
  
b. Applicability. The RE Overlay District applies to the following areas: 
1. West 15th. All lots, parcels, and tracts of land located completely or 
partially within the area bounded by the alley between 15th Street and 
Lincolnway on the north, Capitol Avenue on the east, the Union Pacific 
Railroad on the south, and Bent Avenue on the west. 
2. Reed Rail Corridor. All lots, parcels, and tracts of land adjacent to the 
Burlington Northern or Union Pacific Rail Line within the area bounded by 
23rd Street on the north, Bent Avenue on the east, the Union Pacific 
Railroad on the south, and Snyder Avenue and an extension of Snyder 
Avenue south to its intersection with the Union Pacific Railroad on the 
west. 
3. West Lincolnway. All lots, parcels, and tracts of land lying within two 
hundred (200) feet of each side of the West Lincolnway right-of-way, from 
Crow Creek westward to the corporate limits of the City. The standards, 
requirements, and regulations of the RE Overlay District shall apply to the 
entirety of any lot, parcel, or tract meeting the foregoing locational 
criteria; provided, however, that in no instance shall the permitted use 
extend beyond three hundred and fifty (350) feet of the West Lincolnway 
right-of-way, as measured perpendicularly from said right-of-way line. 
4. High Plains Road Interchange. All lots, parcels, and tracts of land within 
the corporate limits of the City and adjacent to the Interstate 25 right-of-
way and lying within 3,000 feet of the centerline of High Plains Road, as 
measured along the Interstate 25 right-of-way from said centerline. For 
purposes of determining adjacency, an intervening railroad right-of-way 
or State-owned land shall not be construed to break or interrupt 
adjacency to the Interstate 25 right-of-way. The standards, requirements, 
and regulations of the RE Overlay District shall apply to the entirety of any 
lot, parcel, or tract meeting the foregoing locational criteria; provided, 
however, that in no instance shall the permitted use extend beyond 2,500 
feet of the Interstate 25 right-of-way, as measured perpendicularly from 
said right-of-way. Any subsequent relocation, reconstruction, or 
realignment of High Plains Road or Interstate 25 shall not alter the 
boundaries of the overlay district. 
 
c. Context. This district is most appropriate in areas with existing or future urban 
development patterns. 
 
d. Permissible Uses. All uses allowed in the underlying zoning district are allowed 
as indicated in Table 5-1. Notwithstanding Table 5-1, Gaming Center; Bars and 
Liquor Stores; Restaurants; Entertainment, Venue (1000+ maximum occupancy); 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
12 | P a g e  
  
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation, Other; Campground; and Recreational 
Vehicle Park shall be a Permitted Use within the RE Overlay District. 
 
e. Site and Building Design Standards. All uses shall be subject to the 
development standards of the underlying zone district. 
 
Summary: 5.7.13, Gaming Center Development Standards (New) 
 
A new development standards section is created for Gaming Centers. In the Community Business 
and Central Business District zones, a Gaming Center must be located at least 500 feet from any 
elementary or secondary school, child care center operating as the sole primary use of an 
independent structure, place of worship, or public park or recreation facility, measured in a straight 
line from the nearest exterior wall of the Gaming Center. The use must also be adjacent to a 
collector, minor arterial or principal arterial street, though direct access is not required. Within the RE 
Overlay District, Gaming Centers located in the Reed Rail Corridor must orient their primary 
pedestrian entrance toward the corridor, with exceptions available through the Administrative 
Adjustment process where conditions make such orientation unreasonable. 
 
Amendment Text: 
 
5.7.13  Gaming Centers 
In districts where a Gaming Center is allowed, a Gaming Center shall meet the following 
standards in addition to all other lot and building standards for the underlying district. 
a. In Community Business – CB and Central Business District – CBD: 
1. Be located five a minimum of hundred (500) feet from any elementary or 
secondary school, child care center operating as the sole primary use of 
an independent structure, place of worship, or public park or recreation 
facility.  Measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to 
intervening structures or streets, from the nearest exterior wall of the 
premises or structure housing the off-track betting facility to the nearest 
exterior wall of the primary structure of a place of worship, school, or child 
care center, or to the nearest property line of a public park or recreation 
facility. 
2. Be adjacent to a Collector, Minor Arterial, or Principal Arterial street. 
Access to a Collector, Minor Arterial, or Principal Arterial street is not 
required. 
b. In the RE Overlay District:  
1. For properties developed within the Reed Rail Corridor, the primary 
pedestrian entrance to the Gaming Center shall be oriented toward the 
Reed Rail Corridor. Exceptions may be approved through the 
Administrative Adjustment process if the Director finds that a pedestrian 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
13 | P a g e  
  
entrance oriented toward the Reed Rail Corridor cannot be reasonably 
accommodated due to conditions specific to the property.    
 
ANALYSIS OF CONFORMANCE WITH REVIEW CRITERIA: 
Review of a UDC text amendment shall be measured by the following three (3) criteria of Section 
2.4.1.d: 
 
1. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:  
 
“The amendment is in accordance with general goals and policies of the Comprehensive 
Plan, or is necessary to address an emerging issue not anticipated in the Comprehensive 
Plan and is not inconsistent with the plan.” 
  
PlanCheyenne broadly supports a Regional Entertainment Zoning District for historic horse 
racing and destination entertainment through several overlapping themes. The plan's 
Foundation 3 , Fostering a Vital Economy and Activity Centers calls for economic 
diversification away from heavy reliance on government employment, while also 
emphasizing the need to capture retail spending and related tax dollars. A destination 
entertainment district drawing out-of-state visitors would directly address both concerns. 
The plan also frames Cheyenne as the "northern anchor" of the Front Range economy, 
noting that the city should work on attracting visitors and their related spending. The 
proposed overlay districts are located in areas that are easily accessible to out -of-town 
visitors.    
 
Because historic horse racing terminals were not yet legal in Wyoming when the plan was 
written, the plan's own amendment procedures provide the pathway forward. The plan 
expressly allows amendments for uses that are beneficial to the community or address 
issues not foreseen during the planning process  and creating these regulations and an 
overlay district effectively does that. Foundation 7's emphasis on fiscal responsibility and 
new development paying its fair share also favors a high -revenue, relatively low-
infrastructure-cost entertainment use over alternatives like residential sprawl.  These 
facilities, when located in the City, provide an avenue for revenue.  Presently Historic Horse 
Racing ranks 5th in City revenue and makes up 4.74% of the City’s general fund budget. 
 
2. STATE STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS:  
The amendment is consistent with the Wyoming Statutes, and specifically the Municipal 
Planning and Zoning statutes. (The following Articles are all listed verbatim from Wyoming 
State Statute) 
 
From ARTICLE 6 – ZONING of TITLE 15 CITIES AND TOWNS: 
WY 15-1-601. Regulations; scope and purpose; uniformity within authorized districts; 
to follow plan; objectives. 
(a) The governing body of any city or town, by ordinance, may: 
(i) Regulate and restrict the: 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
14 | P a g e  
  
…. 
(E) Location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry, residence 
or other purposes. 
 
Assessment: This amendment proposes modifying the Unified Development Code to 
provide additional local land use control of specific uses within the City , which is 
authorized by state statute. 
 
3. HEALTH, SAFETY, AND PUBLIC WELFARE:  
“The amendment promotes the general health, safety and public welfare.” 
 
This amendment would promote the general health, safety, and public welfare of 
Cheyenne by encouraging Gaming Centers to locate in regionally accessible destination 
areas that are evolving and growing within the community. Concentrating these uses 
within four identified overlay districts helps direct higher intensity commercial activity to 
areas with appropriate transportation access, infrastructure, visibility, and separation 
from established neighborhoods and sensitive land uses. This approach provides greater 
predictability for residents, supports orderly development patterns, and reduces the 
potential for land use conflicts. 
 
The amendment also allows the Governing Body to review proposed Gaming Centers 
outside of the overlay districts on a case by case basis to evaluate neighborhood 
compatibility, site design, traffic impacts, operational characteristics, and surrounding 
land uses. The public hearing process ensures nearby property owners and residents are 
notified in advance and provided an opportunity to comment before decisions are made. 
This balanced approach promotes transparency, local oversight, and thoughtful 
placement of Gaming Centers while still allowing reasonable economic development 
opportunities within the community. 
 
PUBLIC NOTICE AND PUBLIC COMMENTS RECEIVED: 
 
Although projects have public notice and the opportunity for public comments, projects are 
required to be approved or denied based on the review criteria (listed above). Public comments 
relevant to the review criteria may assist the review and discussion on the application. 
 
A public hearing regarding this proposed text amendment was advertised for the March 2, 2026, 
meeting. This item has been continued to subsequent meetings (April 4, 2026; May 4, 2026, and 
May 18, 2026). No comment has been made at the meetings and no one has contacted staff 
regarding this proposed amendment and its related postponement.   
 
As of the publication of the Staff Report (May 11, 2026), Staff has received no inquires or 
comments from the public on this project.  
 
  
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
15 | P a g e  
  
CONCLUSION: 
 
Staff is satisfied that the application meets the review criteria set forth in UDC 2.4.1.d. 
 
ALTERNATIVES: 
1. Recommend approval of the Text Amendment as submitted by the applicant (Staff 
Recommendation).  
2. Recommend approval of the Text Amendment subject to conditions or modifications.  
3. Recommend denial of the Text Amendment based on findings of denial. The Planning 
Commission must conclude that the project does not meet at least one of the review 
criteria. As part of the motion, findings for denial must be stated. 
4. Postpone the Text Amendment until issues identified during the meeting can be 
resolved. 
 
General Information Regarding Alternatives: 
 
If the Commission acts contrary to staff’s recommendation or recommends conditions of approval, 
the Commission shall cite specific reasons (based on the review criteria) for their recommendation. 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION: 
 
Staff recommends approval of text amendments to the Unified Development Code amending 
the Unified Development Code (UDC) amending UDC sections 1.3.11 Nonconformities; 1.4.4 
Definitions; 1.4.5 Interpretation of Zoning Map; 2.2.7 Special Use Approval; 5.1.2 Zoning Districts 
Established; and 5.1.4 Use Table; and creating 5.6.10 Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay 
District) and 5.7.13 Gaming Center Development Standards as outlined in this staff report and 
recommended by staff, noting the amendments meet the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
ATTACHMENTS: 
 
1. Proposed Amendments to the Use Table  
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generAl Provisions5.1     generAl Provisions
5 - 4
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
P = Use permitted by right A = Use permitted after administrative review C = Use permitted after conditional discretionary review  
S = Use permitted after special use review      (blank = prohibited use) 
tAble 5-1:  Zoning district uses
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Residential Uses
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Detached Dwelling P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”) P P P P P P P P P P
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse”) P P P P P P P P
Cottage Lots C C C C P P P P P P
Group Housing C C C C C C C C C C C C C C P
Dormitories C A P P P P
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”) C P
P/C P C
P/C P P P
Live/Work C P C A P P P P P P C P
Mixed-use Dwelling P P P P P P C P
Accessory Dwelling A A A A A A A A A A A A P
Urban Loft Building C P C C C P P
Manufactured housing parks C C C C P
Civic Uses
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy) C C C C C C A A A A A P C C A A A C P
Community Assembly (350  - 1000  maximum occupancy) A A P C C A A A C P
Cemeteries A A A P C C A A A P
Primary and secondary schools C C C C C C C C C A A P P A A A C P
Educational facilities P P P A A C P
Community Athletic Field C C C C C C A A P A A A P P
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium C C C C C P P
Service Uses
Service Business - Limited P P P A P P P P
Service Business - General C P P C C P P
Assisted Living / Nursing Home C C C C C A C C C C C P P P P P
Animal Care - Kennel P C P P P P
Animal Care – Hospital / Clinic C C C P C C P
Family Child Care Home (FCCH) P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Family Child Care Center (FCCC) A A A A A A A A A P P P A P P P
Child Care Center (CCC) A C A C C C C C C P P P C P P P P
Emergency Shelter P C
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C P P P A C P P P P                               
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generAl Provisions5.1     generAl Provisions
5 - 5
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Services Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C C C C C A C C A C C C P P
Entertainment, Venue (1000+ maximum occupancy) C C C A A C A C C P P
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation—Other C C C C P C C C C C C P
Gaming Center S S
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast P A A C C C C A P P P P P
Lodging, Hotel / Motel P P P P P P
Campground C C P C P
Recreational Vehicle Park C C P C P
Medical Care, Clinic and Office P P P C P P P P
Medical Care, Hospital P P P P
Mini Storage C C P C P P C C P
Storage, Yard C P C P
Employment Uses P
Home occupations P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Office – Limited (<3,500) C A C A P P P P P P P P P P
Office – general (3,500 – 20K) C C P P P P A P P P P
Office – Major Office Complex (>20K) P P P P P P P P
Commercial Uses
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k) P P P P A P P P P
Neighborhood Retail (2K - 5K) P P P P A P P P P
General Retail (5K -  25K) P P P P A P P
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K) P P P P C P P
Warehouse Retail (> 100K) P P P P P P
Grocery Store <45K P P P P P P P P
Supermarket  > 45K P P P P C P P
Outdoor Sales, Limited A P A A A A C P
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales C C C C C P
Bars and liquor stores C C P A C C P P
Automobile Service Repair C P C P P C C P P
Automobile Service Station - Limited C P C P P C C P P P
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generAl Provisions5.1     generAl Provisions
5 - 6
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Commercial Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Automobile Service Station - General P C P P C P P
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale C C P P P
Food Service – Limited (under 2K) P P P P P P P P P
Food Service – General (2K – 4K) C P P P P P P P
Food Service – Large-scale (over 4k) P P P P P P
Industrial Uses
Data Center C C C P P C P P
Limited Industrial A A P P P P A P P P P
Moderate Industrial C P P C P P P
General Industrial C P P C
Industrial C C C
Limited Outdoor Storage P P C A P C
Outdoor Storage C P C C
Impoundment Yards P P C C C
Salvage yards C C C
Junk yards C C
Air cargo terminals P C
Aircraft sales, repair, service, storage and relating uses P C
Railroad yards and maintenance buildings P P P C
Oil and Gas Support Services S
Public Service Uses
Commercial and Public Parking Facility P P P P P P
Government Facility P P P P P P P P P P P P
Military P P
Recycling Services C P P C C C P
Transportation facilities C P P P P P P
Utility Stations A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A P A P
Agriculture Uses
General Agriculture P P P
Limited Agriculture P P P P
Agricultural equipment or product sales C P
Commercial stables, arenas, and show barns C C P
Nurseries, landscaping P P C P P C P