PLANNING &  
DEVELOPMENT  
2101 O’Neil Avenue 
Cheyenne, WY 82001 
(307) 637-6282 
cheyennecity.org 
 
MEMO 
To: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
From: Charles Bloom, AICP, Planning and Development Director 
Subject: PLTA-26-2 – An Ordinance Amending 1.3.11 Nonconformities; 1.4.4 
Definitions; 1.4.5 Interpretation of Zoning Map; 2.2.7 Special Use 
Approval; 5.1.2 Zoning Districts Established; and 5.1.4 Use Table; and 
creating 5.6.10 Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District and 5.7.13 
Gaming Center Development Standards and Setting an Effective Date for 
Compliance Substitute 
Date: June 22, 2026   
 
 
Background:  
 
Based on public comments and discussion at prior meetings of the Governing Body and the 
Public Service Committee, a substitute ordinance has been prepared. The substitute proposes 
the following changes to the original proposal: 
 
• Exhibit D has been modified to add "Gaming Center" as a Special Use in the MUB district 
(to correct an accidental omission). All other exhibits remain the same. 
 
• New language has been added as a new subsection 10 on page 6, and subsection a.1 on 
page 10 has been deleted. 
 
• The substitute changes the 500-foot separation from a mandatory requirement to 
discretionary review criteria. This allows for exceptions to be made based on 
relationships, intervening structures or physical separation, operational characteristics, 
chronological priority (who was established first), and reasonable expectations of mixed 
uses. To accomplish this, the separation requirement in Section 9 of the proposed 
ordinance (prior subsection 5.7.13.a.1) was deleted.  
 
• The substitute also reverts the child care center consideration to apply only to standalone 
child care centers, in accordance with the staff recommendation made to the Planning 
Commission. 
 
Attachments: 
 
1. Substitute Ordinance 
2. Redlined Ordinance 
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: "AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 1.3.11 NONCONFORMITIES; 1.4.4 
DEFINITIONS; 1.4.5 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING MAP; 2.2.7 
SPECIAL USE APPROVAL; 5.1.2 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; 
AND 5.1.4 USE TABLE; AND CREATING 5.6.10 REGIONAL 
ENTERTAINMENT (RE) OVERLAY DISTRICT) AND 5.7.13 GAMING 
CENTER DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND SETTING AN 
EFFECTIVE DATE FOR COMPLIANCE.” 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1. That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
that is the subject of this ordinance meets the criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the Unified 
Development Code of the City of Cheyenne (UDC). 
 
Section 2. That on May 18, 2026, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing, 
reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text amendment. 
 
Section 3. That Section 1.3.11 of the UDC is amended to add the following definitions and 
read as shown in Exhibit A, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
1.3.11 Nonconformances 
c.  Nonconforming Uses. Use of land or buildings that legally existed prior to the adoption 
or amendment of this code, but which could not be commenced under the terms of this 
code or subsequent amendment are considered legal nonconforming uses. A legal 
nonconforming use may continue to exist subject to the following: 
1.  Expansion of a legal nonconforming use requires Board approval in accordance 
with the procedures and criteria in Article 2 for conditional uses. 
2.  The use may be changed to a lesser nonconforming use, either in extent or 
intensity, if the Director determines that the impacts of the new use are less than 
those of the existing nonconforming use. Accommodating the new use shall not 
increase any other non-conformances that may exist. 
3.  If the legal nonconforming use ceases its operation for a continuous period of 
one year, it shall not be reopened and the building or structure where such use 
previously existed shall be used only for a conforming use.  
4. Where a previously lawful use becomes classified as a Special Use through 
amendment of this Code, the use may continue for a period established by the 
adopting ordinance, after which Special Use approval shall be required to continue 
operation.  
Page 2 of 8 
 
Section 4. That Section 1.4.4 of the UDC is amended to add the following definitions and 
read as shown in Exhibit B, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
1.4.4.c  Definitions  
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation Services—Other.  A Service use primarily engaged in the 
operation of indoor or outdoor entertainment, amusement and recreation services not elsewhere 
classified, such as off-track betting, indoor or outdoor shooting range, amusement parks, or similar 
sports or recreation venues. 
Gaming Center. A Gaming Center is an establishment primarily dedicated to wagering on live or 
historic horse races through pari-mutuel or electronic systems, or other lawful wagering activities 
conducted in accordance with state or federal law. The use includes dedicated wagering areas, 
electronic terminals, and administrative space, often featuring ancillary amenities such as lounges, 
food and beverage service, and the on -premises sale of alcoholic beverages. This definition 
specifically excludes family-style game centers, arcades, or venues where the primary use consists 
of amusement -only or skill -based machines. Furthermore, it does not include incidental or 
temporary fundraising activities such as nonprofit bingo, charitable raffles, or similar occasiona l 
social gaming events that do not constitute regulated professional gambling. 
Section 5. That Section 1.4.5 of the UDC is amended to read: 
 
1.4.5 Interpretation of Zoning Map 
Where uncertainty exists with respect to any of the boundaries of a zoning district as shown on the 
zoning map, the following rules shall apply: 
a.  Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerlines of 
streets or highways or railroad right -of-way lines or the lines extended, they shall be 
construed to be the boundaries.   
b. Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the corporate limit line 
of the City, the corporate limit line shall be construed to be the boundaries.  
c. Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines or the 
lines extended, the property lines or the lines extended shall be construed to be the 
boundaries.  
d. Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of stream 
beds or riverbeds, the centerlines shall be construed to be the boundaries.  
e. Where district boundaries are indicated on unplatted properties, the line shall be interpreted 
as the ten (10) acre tract line created by the federal government under the Public Lands 
Survey, unless otherwise noted.  
f. Each zoning map page indicates from quarter section to four sections, with most pages 
showing only one section. When the zoning district designation is not shown on the section 
line or the edge boundary on any individual map, it shall be construed to be th e edge 
boundary. 
g. Where a boundary is defined by a specific distance or radius from a feature or line, and 
uncertainty arises as to whether a property or structure falls within that boundary, the 
Page 3 of 8 
 
burden of proof shall rest with the landowner. The landowner shall provide a survey, 
certified by a surveyor licensed in the State of Wyoming, to definitively establish the 
boundary location relative to the subject property. This survey shall be submitted to the 
Director for review, shall serve as the controlling document for determination, and shall be 
prepared at the sole expense of the landowner. 
 
Section 5. That Section 1.4.5 of the UDC is amended to read: 
 
2.2.7  Special Use Approval 
a. Intent. A special use approval process is intended to provide flexibility for different uses 
within a zoning district, and specifically allow the potential for additional uses that due to 
their varying design and operational characteristics may not be generally ap propriate in a 
zoning district, but require case-specific review to determine the compatibility of the use, 
the associated site design, and the operational characteristics with surrounding uses and 
development patterns.  
b. Applicability. An application for a special use may be initiated by the property owner or 
authorized agent for any use requiring a “special use” approval in these regulations . An 
application for a special use may be initiated by the property owner or authorized agent for 
any use permissible as a “special use” within an existing or pending zoning district under 
this Code. 
c. Specific Procedures. Special use approval has the following specific procedures:  
1. Pre-application Conference. A pre-application conference is not required., but may 
be used to discuss planning and engineering issues, and specific application 
procedures and requirements for a formal application and coordination of the 
Special Use Permit request with the Site Plan Review Process. 
2. Staff Review. Upon receipt of a formal application staff will conduct an internal 
review and may forward copies of the application to any pertinent external agencies 
for review and comment. 
(a) Complete Application . Within seven (7) days of submittal of the 
application, staff shall determine whether the application is complete 
according to official application requirements. Staff shall notify the 
applicant in writing of any deficiencies in incomplete applications giving 
directions and deadlines to cure deficiencies. Staff shall schedule 
complete applications for formal internal review subject to the criteria in 
this section and any additional criteria required by the use.  Staff shall 
schedule complete applications for consideration of  the City Council  
between 15 and 60 days of the determination of a complete application. 
(b) Notice. Prior to Review by the City Council the following Notice notice 
shall occur: 
(1) Posted Notice. Prior to a recommendation, staff shall provide one 
sign for each road front agefrontage indicating that there is a pending 
development application. The applicant shall ensure that this sign is 
posted on each road frontage on the property for at least seven (7) 
Page 4 of 8 
 
days prior to the recommendationCity Council introduction. When 
the applicant has made all reasonable and good faith efforts to 
maintain posted notice, failure of this posted notice will not be 
grounds to invalidate the application 
(2) Published Notice.  Notice shall be published in a newspaper of 
general circulation and posted to the City of Cheyenne website at 
least 15 days prior to City Council introduction indicating the 
general location of the property, the nature of the application, the 
location for further information on that application, and the date, 
time and location of City Council and City Council Committee 
consideration. Notice of resolution introduction and referral is not 
required. 
(1)(3) Mailed Notice. All owners within 300’ of subject property 
shall be mailed notice indicating the general location of the property, 
the nature of the application, the location for further information on 
that application, and the dates of City Council and City Council 
Committee consideration. Notice of resolution introduction and 
referral is not required. When mailed notice is properly addressed 
based on the latest property information and deposited in the mail at 
least 15 days prior to City Council introduction, failure of a party to 
receive such notice will not be grounds to invalidate any action 
taken. 
(c) Staff Recommendation . Upon review according to the criteria in this 
section, and between 7 and 30 days of the determination of a complete 
application, the Director shall take one of the following actions  and 
afterward place the application on the next available City Council agenda: 
(1) Recommend approval of the application  and place on the next 
available City Council agenda; or 
(2) Recommend approval of the application with specific conditions or 
modifications and place on the next available City Council Agenda; 
or 
(3) Recommend Denial of the application and state specific reasons for 
denial. 
3. City Council Consideration. The City Council shall consider the application in the 
form of a resolution. The City Council may approve, deny, or approve the 
application with reasonable conditions as deemed necessary to protect the public 
health, safety, and welfare and to ensure compliance with applicable City standards 
and requirements.Approval and Acceptance. Upon recommendation of the Staff, 
the application shall be scheduled for approval by the City Council at the next 
regular meeting. At this meeting City Council shall review the application subject 
to the criteria of this section and criteria for the special use and: 
(a) Approve the Special Use Permit; 
Page 5 of 8 
 
(b) Approve the Special Use Permit with specific conditions or modifications. 
Conditions or modifications shall be:   
(1) to better meet standards and review criteria; or 
(2) to address situations created by or aggravated by the proposed 
application, and which conditions are roughly proportional to the 
impacts of the proposed development; 
(c) Deny the Special Use Permit. 
4. Effect of Decision. The decision of the Governing Body is the final decision. Any 
application that has not established the Special Use within 1 year shall be voidCity 
Council shall be final. Approval by the City Council shall be valid for a period not 
to e xceed 3 years and shall terminate concurrently with the expiration of any 
applicable license. Denial of the application shall bar any application for a special 
sue that is not substantially different for at least 1 year. 
d. Review Criteria.  In reviewing and making a decision on thea Special Use Permit, the 
Governing Body and Staff and the City Council shall consider: 
1. Whether the use meets applicable provisions of the UDC, including applicable 
development and design standards. In meeting these criteria, the reviewing body 
may consider design standards contained in the UDC that are not otherwise 
applicable in the zoning district, where the Design Objectives associated with such 
standards are relevant to the specific situation under review.  
1.2.Whether the operating characteristics of the use are complimentary to the character 
of the surrounding area in terms of hours of operation, visible and audible impacts, 
and traffic patterns caused by the use; 
2.3.Whether the The suitability of the subject property for the use, compared with the 
suitability of the subject property for other uses permitted by right in the zoning 
district; 
3.4.Whether the specific application of the use to the site supports the general intent 
and applicability of the zoning district, and does not compromise the general intent 
and applicability of adjacent zoning districts; 
4.5.The duration of the proposed Special Use relevant to the applicability requirements 
of this sectionthe zoning district and adjacent zoning districts; 
5.6.Whether any additional site -specific conditions associated with the application are 
warranted and sufficient to prevent any potential harm to the public health, safety 
or general welfare; 
6. The Review and recommendations of other reviewing bodies; 
7. Whether the use is in conflict with other applicable   regulations, including City, 
State or Federal regulations; 
8. The adequacy of infrastructure supporting the site. 
9. Whether the proposed use contributes demonstrable public benefits, including but 
not limited to affordable housing, additional recreational opportunities, 
preservation or provision of open space, cultural amenities, or other improvements 
that serve the general welfare of the community.  
Page 6 of 8 
 
9.10. Whether the proposed use maintains an appropriate separation from 
sensitive uses in the vicinity, including but not limited to schools, child care centers 
operating as the sole primary use of an independent structure , places of worship, 
and public parks or recreation facilities. The reviewing body may weigh the degree 
of physical or functional separation between uses, the presence of intervening 
development or infrastructure, the operational characteristics of both the propose d 
use and any nearby sensitive use, the length of operation of both the proposed use 
and any nearby sensitive use, and whether the zoning context reasonably anticipates 
the co-location of proposed special uses in proximity to such facilities. 
Section 6. That Section 5.1.2 of the UDC is amended as shown in Exhibit C, which  is 
attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
5.1.2   Zoning Districts Established 
 
The following zoning districts are established: 
 
Section 7. That Section 5.1.4 of the UDC is amended as shown in Exhibit D, which is 
attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Section 8. That Section 5.6.10 of the UDC is created to read:  
 
5.6.10 Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District 
a. Intent. The Regional Entertainment (RE) Overlay District is intended to encourage urban 
and infill development and support redevelopment opportunities in evolving and 
transitioning corridors within the City. The district promotes development that leverages 
proximity to regional destinations, major transportation corridors, and interchange areas to 
attract visitors, support economic activity, and increase vitality across a range of urban 
contexts. 
b. Applicability. The RE Overlay District applies to the following areas: 
1. West 15th. All lots, parcels, and tracts of land located completely or partially within 
the area bounded by the alley between 15th Street and Lincolnway on the north, 
Capitol Avenue on the east, the Union Pacific Railroad on the south, and Bent 
Avenue on the west. 
2. Reed Rail Corridor. All lots, parcels, and tracts of land adjacent to the Burlington 
Northern or Union Pacific Rail Line within the area bounded by 23rd Street on the 
north, Bent Avenue on the east, the Union Pacific Railroad on the south, and Snyder 
Avenue and an extension of Snyder Avenue south to its intersection with the Union 
Pacific Railroad on the west. 
3. West Lincolnway. All lots, parcels, and tracts of land lying within two hundred 
(200) feet of each side of the West Lincolnway right -of-way, from Crow Creek 
westward to the corporate limits of the City. The standards, requirements, and 
regulations of the RE Overlay District shall apply to the entirety of any lot, parcel, 
or tract meeting the foregoing locational criteria; provided, however, that in no 
Page 7 of 8 
 
instance shall the permitted use extend beyond three hundred and fifty (350) feet of 
the West Lincolnway right -of-way, as measured perpendicularly from said right -
of-way line. 
4. High Plains Road Interchange. All lots, parcels, and tracts of land within the 
corporate limits of the City and adjacent to the Interstate 25 right-of-way and lying 
within 3,000 feet of the centerline of High Plains Road, as measured along the 
Interstate 2 5 right -of-way from said centerline. For purposes of determining 
adjacency, an intervening railroad right -of-way or State -owned land shall not be 
construed to break or interrupt adjacency to the Interstate 25 right -of-way. The 
standards, requirements, and regulations of the RE Overlay District shall apply to 
the entirety of any lot, parcel, or tract meeting the foregoing locational criteria; 
provided, however, that in no instance shall the permitted use extend beyond 2,500 
feet of the Interstate 25 right-of-way, as measured perpendicularly from said right-
of-way. Any subsequent relocation, reconstruction, or realignment of High Plains 
Road or Interstate 25 shall not alter the boundaries of the overlay district. 
c. Context. This district is most appropriate in areas with existing or future urban 
development patterns. 
d. Permissible Uses.  All uses allowed in the underlying zoning district are allowed as 
indicated in Table 5 -1. Notwithstanding Table 5 -1, Gaming Centers shall be a Permitted 
Use within the RE Overlay District. 
e. Site and Building Design Standards.  All uses shall be subject to the development 
standards of the underlying zone district. 
Section 9.  That Section 5.7.13 of the UDC be created to read:  
 
5.7.13  Gaming Centers 
In districts where a Gaming Center is allowed, a Gaming Center shall meet the following standards 
in addition to all other lot and building standards for the underlying district. 
a. In Community Business – CB, Mixed -Use Busine ss – MUB, and Central Business 
District – CBD: 
1. Be adjacent to a Collector, Minor Arterial, or Principal Arterial street. Access to a 
Collector, Minor Arterial, or Principal Arterial street is not required. 
b. In the RE Overlay District:  
1. For properties developed within the Reed Rail Corridor, the primary pedestrian 
entrance to the Gaming Center shall be oriented toward the Reed Rail Corridor. 
Exceptions may be approved through the Administrative Adjustment process if the 
Director finds tha t a pedestrian entrance oriented toward the Reed Rail Corridor 
cannot be reasonably accommodated due to conditions specific to the property.    
 
Section 10. That any legally established use that becomes classified as a Special Use as a 
result of this ordinance shall be authorized to continue operations through December 31, 2027, 
Page 8 of 8 
 
after which the use shall obtain Special Use approval pursuant to UDC Section 2.2.7 or cease 
operation. 
 
Section 11. Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any of t he remaining 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
 Section 12. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
 
(SEAL) 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
EXHIBIT A
EXHIBIT A
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBITEXHIBIT B B
EXHIBIT B
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 2
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
e. Ensur e that all standards are in accordance with the 
Comprehensive Plan of the City, or any official specific area 
plan or program adopted under the Comprehensive Plan.
5.1.2   Z oning Districts Established
The following zoning districts are established:
Rural and Agriculture Districts
AG Agricultural 
AR Agricultural Residential
RR Rural Residential
Residential Neighborhood Districts
LR Low-density Residential
MR Medium-density Residential
HR High-density Residential
NR-1 Neighborhood Residential  - Moderate Density
NR-2 Neighborhood Residential – Medium Density
NR-3 Neighborhood Residential – High Density
Commercial and Mixed-Use districts
NB Neighborhood Business
CB Community Business
CBD Central Business District
MUR Mixed-Use Residential Emphasis
MUB Mixed-Use Business Emphasis
MUE Mixed-Use Employment Emphasis
BP Business Park
Industrial Districts
LI Light Industrial
HI Heavy Industrial
Special Purpose and Overlay Districts
P Public District
PUD Planned Unit Development
AD Airport District
SS Support Services
M Military
AHR Airport Height and Use Restrictions
CHR State Capitol Height Restrictions
Article 5   Zoning regulAtions
5.1 G eneral Provisions
5.2 Rur al and Agriculture Districts Standards
5.3 R esidential Neighborhood Districts Standards
5.4 C ommercial and Mixed-Use Districts 
Standards
5.5 I ndustrial Districts Standards
5.6 Special P urpose and Overlay Districts 
Standards
5.7 Specific U se Standards 
5.8 Supplemen tal Provisions 
5.1 g enerAl Provisions
5.1.1 Purpose
5.1.2 Z oning Districts Established
5.1.3 O fficial Zoning Map
5.1.4 Distr icts and Uses
5.1.5 R esidential Building and Lot Types
5.1.1 Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to:
a. Establish distr icts to regulate and restrict the erection, 
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, or use of 
buildings, structures or land.
b. D evelop standards for various classes or kinds of buildings 
permitted within each district, including scale, mass and 
orientation to lots and streets.
c. D evelop standards to ensure the compatibility of building 
types and permitted uses within districts consistent with 
the character of the district and its particular suitability for 
particular uses.
d. D evelop standards to ensure the compatibility and 
transitions between different districts, and to ensure 
the compatibility and transitions with public areas and 
development patterns established in Article 4, Subdivision 
Regulations.
unified develoPment code
EXHIBIT C
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 3
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
that make the use compatible with certain districts. These 
cannot be included in the general categories and they require 
the approval process as indicated. Applicants and staff will 
need to work closely together in determining the appropriate 
category for a specific use.
Uses are allowed in various zoning districts as either “permitted 
by right” (P), “permitted after administrative review” (A), or 
“permitted after conditional discretionary review” (C), as 
indicated in Table 5-1.  The procedures and general criteria for 
these reviews are included in Article 2.  
RE Regional Entertainment
RUCAO Restricted Use Control Area Overlay District
UU Urban Use Overlay District
Form-based Code Districts*
T-1 Natural
T-2 Rural
T-3 Suburban
T-4 General Urban
T-5 Urban Center
T-6 Urban Core
D District
CS Civic Space
*  F orm-based code districts are subject to a Regulating Plan, and the 
procedures and district standards in Article 7.  Each district may further be 
limited with respect to uses by L (limited), R (restricted), and O (open) based 
on a specific Regulating Plan.
5.1.3   O fficial Zoning Map
The boundaries of the zoning districts in the City are established 
as shown on a map entitled City of Cheyenne zoning map. The 
City of Cheyenne zoning map is on file and maintained at the 
office of the City Engineer. The City of Cheyenne zoning map 
will bear the signature of the City Engineer, and will be updated 
in accordance with such zoning ordinance amendments as may 
be enacted from time to time by the governing body. The City 
of Cheyenne zoning map, as amended, together with the most 
recently adopted edition of the FEMA flood insurance rate map, 
including the designation of zoning districts are incorporated 
in this code. Copies of the map are on file at the office of the 
City Clerk and development office. Any conflict among the 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the most recent update on 
file at the office of the City Engineer.  Any conflicts between the 
FEMA flood insurance rate maps and the City or County zoning 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the FEMA flood insurance rate 
maps.
5.1.4   D istricts and Uses 
Uses have been grouped in general categories, wherever 
possible. The categories are meant to allow discretion in 
determining permitted uses. Some uses are more specifically 
listed because of anticipated impacts associated with the use 
which warrant special treatment with respect to which district 
they are allowed in or special review procedures and standards 
EXHIBIT C
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 3
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
category for a specific use.
Uses are allowed in various zoning districts as either “permitted 
by right” (P), “permitted after administrative review” (A), or 
“permitted after conditional discretionary review” (C), or 
“permitted after special use review” (S)  as indicated in Table 
5-1. Uses, including those ‘permitted by right’ , typically require 
site plans and building permits to be lawfully established.  The 
procedures and general criteria for these reviews are included 
in Article 2.  
*  F orm-based code districts are subject to a Regulating Plan, and the 
procedures and district standards in Article 7.  Each district may further be 
limited with respect to uses by L (limited), R (restricted), and O (open) based 
on a specific Regulating Plan.
5.1.3   O fficial Zoning Map
The boundaries of the zoning districts in the City are established 
as shown on a map entitled City of Cheyenne zoning map. The 
City of Cheyenne zoning map is on file and maintained at the 
office of the City Engineer. The City of Cheyenne zoning map 
will bear the signature of the City Engineer, and will be updated 
in accordance with such zoning ordinance amendments as may 
be enacted from time to time by the governing body. The City 
of Cheyenne zoning map, as amended, together with the most 
recently adopted edition of the FEMA flood insurance rate map, 
including the designation of zoning districts are incorporated 
in this code. Copies of the map are on file at the office of the 
City Clerk and development office. Any conflict among the 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the most recent update on 
file at the office of the City Engineer.  Any conflicts between the 
FEMA flood insurance rate maps and the City or County zoning 
maps shall be resolved in favor of the FEMA flood insurance rate 
maps.
5.1.4   D istricts and Uses 
Uses have been grouped in general categories, wherever 
possible. The categories are meant to allow discretion in 
determining permitted uses. Some uses are more specifically 
listed because of anticipated impacts associated with the use 
which warrant special treatment with respect to which district 
they are allowed in or special review procedures and standards 
that make the use compatible with certain districts. These 
cannot be included in the general categories and they require 
the approval process as indicated. Applicants and staff will 
need to work closely together in determining the appropriate 
EXHIBIT D
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 4
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
P = Use permitted by right A = U se permitted after administrative review  C = U se permitted after conditional discretionary review   
S = Use permitted after special use review      (blank = pr ohibited use)  
tAble 5-1:  Zoning district uses
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Residential Uses
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Detached Dwelling P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”) P P P P P P P P P P
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse”) P P P P P P P P
Cottage Lots C C C C P P P P P P
Group Housing C C C C C C C C C C C C C C P
Dormitories C A P P P P
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”) C P
P/C P C
P/C P P P
Live/Work C P C A P P P P P P C P
Mixed-use Dwelling P P P P P P C P
Accessory Dwelling A A A A A A A A A A A A P
Urban Loft Building C P C C C P P
Manufactured housing parks C C C C P
Civic Uses
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy) C C C C C C A A A A A P C C A A A C P
Community Assembly (350  - 1000  maximum occupancy) A A P C C A A A C P
Cemeteries A A A P C C A A A P
Primary and secondary schools C C C C C C C C C A A P P A A A C P
Educational facilities P P P A A C P
Community Athletic Field C C C C C C A A P A A A P P
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium C C C C C P P
Service Uses
Service Business - Limited P P P A P P P P
Service Business - General C P P C C P P
Assisted Living / Nursing Home C C C C C A C C C C C P P P P P
Animal Care - Kennel P C P P P P
Animal Care – Hospital / Clinic C C C P C C P
Family Child Care Home (FCCH) P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Family Child Care Center (FCCC) A A A A A A A A A P P P A P P P
Child Care Center (CCC) A C A C C C C C C P P P C P P P P
Emergency Shelter P C
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C P P P A C P P P P                               
EXHIBIT D
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generAl Provisions5.1     generAl Provisions
5 - 5
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
 cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Services Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C C C C C A C C A C C C P P
Entertainment, Venue (1000+ maximum occupancy) C C C A A C A C C P P
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation—Other C C C C P C C C C C C P
Gaming Center S S
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast P A A C C C C A P P P P P
Lodging, Hotel / Motel P P P P P P
Campground C C P C P
Recreational Vehicle Park C C P C P
Medical Care, Clinic and Office P P P C P P P P
Medical Care, Hospital P P P P
Mini Storage C C P C P P C C P
Storage, Yard C P C P
Employment Uses P
Home occupations P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Office – Limited (<3,500) C A C A P P P P P P P P P P
Office – general (3,500 – 20K) C C P P P P A P P P P
Office – Major Office Complex (>20K) P P P P P P P P
Commercial Uses
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k) P P P P A P P P P
Neighborhood Retail (2K - 5K) P P P P A P P P P
General Retail (5K -  25K) P P P P A P P
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K) P P P P C P P
Warehouse Retail (> 100K) P P P P P P
Grocery Store <45K P P P P P P P P
Supermarket  > 45K P P P P C P P
Outdoor Sales, Limited A P A A A A C P
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales C C C C C P
Bars and liquor stores C C P A C C P P
Automobile Service Repair C P C P P C C P P
Automobile Service Station - Limited C P C P P C C P P P
EXHIBIT D
S S
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 6
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Commercial Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Automobile Service Station - General P C P P C P P
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale C C P P P
Food Service – Limited (under 2K) P P P P P P P P P
Food Service – General (2K – 4K) C P P P P P P P
Food Service – Large-scale (over 4k) P P P P P P
Industrial Uses
Data Center C C C P P C P P
Limited Industrial A A P P P P A P P P P
Moderate Industrial C P P C P P P
General Industrial C P P C
Industrial C C C
Limited Outdoor Storage P P C A P C
Outdoor Storage C P C C
Impoundment Yards P P C C C
Salvage yards C C C
Junk yards C C
Air cargo terminals P C
Aircraft sales, repair, service, storage and relating uses P C
Railroad yards and maintenance buildings P P P C
Oil and Gas Support Services S
Public Service Uses
Commercial and Public Parking Facility P P P P P P
Government Facility P P P P P P P P P P P P
Military P P
Recycling Services C P P C C C P
Transportation facilities C P P P P P P
Utility Stations A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A P A P
Agriculture Uses
General Agriculture P P P
Limited Agriculture P P P P
Agricultural equipment or product sales C P
Commercial stables, arenas, and show barns C C P
Nurseries, landscaping P P C P P C P
EXHIBIT D