PLANNING &  
DEVELOPMENT  
2101 O’Neil Avenue 
Cheyenne, WY 82001 
(307) 637-6282 
cheyennecity.org 
 
MEMO 
To: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
From: Connor White 
Subject: PLTA-26-2 / Amending UDC 1.4.3 and 5.8.8, and creating 5.8.9  
Date: May 26, 2026 
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
Background:  
The item for consideration is a UDC Text Amendment. This is approved by Ordinance.   
 
The proposed Governing Body review schedule is as follows: 
• Introduction and Referral   5/26/2026 
• Public Services Committee   6/01/2026 
• Second reading    6/08/2026 
• Public Services Committee   6/15/2026 
• Third and final reading   6/22/2026 
 
Planning Commission Recommendation:  
The Planning Commission heard this item at their May 18, 2026, meeting and unanimously voted to 
recommend the Governing Body approve the proposed text amendment as amended.  
 
The following amendments were made by the Planning Commission (shown in blue): 
 
UDC 1.4.3 Defined Terms 
Carport. A carport is an accessory building used functions to offer limited protection to vehicles 
from the elements. The structure may be free standing or attached to another structure.  
 
UDC 5.8.9 Carports 
c. The following setback standards shall apply: 
1. Front yard carports shall be set back a minimum of 5-feet from any public 
sidewalk and 10-feet from the curb 2 feet from the street-facing property 
line. The Director may reduce this setback to 0 feet through administrative 
adjustment upon finding that the carport will not interfere with a current or 
future public sidewalk. 
………… 
3. On corner lots where a carport takes direct vehicular access from a side 
street through the narrow dimension of the carport, the side yard setback 
from the street-facing side property line may be reduced to 5-feet from any 
public sidewalk and 10-feet from the curb 2 feet from the street-facing 
property line. The Director may reduce this setback to 0 feet through 
administrative adjustment upon finding that the carport will not interfere 
with a current or future public sidewalk. A setback reduction only applies 
where the carport opening directly faces and takes access from the adjacent 
 
street. A carport oriented with its long dimension oriented towards the side 
street property line shall not qualify for this reduction and shall conform to 
the accessory building setback standards of the zone district. 
Planning Commissions proposed changes are reflected in the attached ordinance.  
 
The Planning Commission Staff report is attached and has not been changed. 
 
Public Comment 
As of the creation of this memo (May 20, 2026), Staff has received no inquires or comments 
from the public related to the proposed amendment. Staff has had numerous calls from citizens 
wanting carports on their front driveway. The project page on the website has received 29 views and no 
comments. 
 
Attachments: 
1. Ordinance 
2. Redlined Ordinance 
3. Planning Commission Staff Report 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: "AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 1.4.3 AND 5.8.8  OF THE 
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE  AND CREATING SECTION 5.8.9 
CARPORTS TO CREATE DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS FOR 
CARPORTS.” 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1.  That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
that is the subject of this ordinance meets the criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the Unified 
Development Code of the City of Cheyenne (UDC). 
 
Section 2.  That on May 18, 2026, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing, 
reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text amendment. 
 
Section 3.  That Section 1.4.3 of the UDC is amended to add the following definitions and 
read as shown in Exhibit A, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Building, Accessory. A detached, subordinate structure, the use of which is clearly incidental and 
related to that of the principal building or use of the land, and which is located on the same property 
as that of the principal structure or use. A carport accessory to residential uses on lots that do not 
require site plan review shall be regulated exclusively under the standards of section 5.8.9 and 
shall not be considered an accessory building for the purposes of this Code.   
 
Carport. A carport functions to offer limited protection to vehicles from the elements. The 
structure may be free standing or attached to another structure. 
 
Section 4.  That Section 5.8.8 of the UDC is amended to read: 
 
5.8.8 Accessory Buildings 
 
Accessory buildings associated with residential uses shall meet the following standards: 
a. There shall be a principal building constructed on the site prior to an accessory building 
being permitted. 
b. For double frontage, triple frontage and corner lots, the setback for a wall with vehicular 
access parallel to the adjacent right-of-way shall be 25', otherwise the setback for double 
frontage, triple frontage and corner lots shall be half of the required principal building's 
front setback. 
c. Accessory buildings under 200 sq. ft. shall be allowed a side and rear setback of 0-feet. 
d. An accessory building shall not encroach on any recorded easement. 
e. Up to two accessory buildings shall be allowed per lot. 
f. The maximum total building footprint of all accessory buildings shall be equal to or less 
than 15% of the property area. 
Page 2 of 4 
 
g. Accessory Buildings shall not have a larger building footprint than the principal buildings 
enclosed footprint (porches and decks do not count toward the principal buildings 
footprint). 
h. Exceptions to accessory building height, area, and number may be approved by 
conditional use approval pursuant to UDC 2.2.4. 
i. The provisions of subsections (a), (b), (e), (f), and (g) of this section do not apply to 
accessory buildings approved in conjunction with a site plan. 
j. To be considered a separate building, the structures must not share any structural 
attachment and no part of either building may be within 3' of the other when viewed from 
plan view. Two structures closer than 3' or with a structural attachment shall be 
considered one building for the purposes of setback, area, and number. 
k. Carports accessory to residential uses that do not require site plan review are not 
accessory buildings for the purposes of this section and shall be regulated exclusively 
under section 5.8.9. Carports shall not be counted toward the number of accessory 
buildings permitted under subsection (e)., nor shall their footprint be counted toward the 
maximum total accessory building footprint under subsection (f). A structure that does 
not meet the definition or standards of a carport under section 5.8.9 shall be regulated as 
an accessory building under this section. 
 
Section 5.  That Section 5.8.9 of the UDC is created to read:  
 
5.8.9   Carports 
 
Carports accessory to residential uses that do not require site plan review shall meet all of the 
standards of this section. Carports requiring site plan review shall comply with applicable design 
standards and development regulations of the zone district in which they are located. 
a. A principal building shall be constructed on the site prior to a carport being permitted.  
b. A carport shall meet all standards for driveways in the zone district. 
c. The following setback standards shall apply: 
1. Front yard carports shall be set back a minimum of 5-feet from any public sidewalk 
and 10-feet from the curb. The Director may reduce this setback to 0 feet through 
administrative adjustment upon finding that the carport will not interfere with a 
current or future public sidewalk. 
2. Side and rear setbacks shall conform to the accessory building setback standards of 
the zone district. 
3. On corner lots where a carport takes direct vehicular access from a side street through 
the narrow dimension of the carport, the side yard setback from the street-facing side 
property line may be reduced to 5-feet from any public sidewalk and 10-feet from the 
curb. The Director may reduce this setback to 0 feet through administrative 
adjustment upon finding that the carport will not interfere with a current or future 
public sidewalk. A setback reduction only applies where the carport opening directly 
faces and takes access from the adjacent street. A carport oriented with its long 
dimension oriented towards the side street property line shall not qualify for this 
Page 3 of 4 
 
reduction and shall conform to the accessory building setback standards of the zone 
district. 
d. One carport is permitted per dwelling unit. More than one carport per dwelling unit 
may be approved through conditional use review. 
e. A carport shall not exceed 600 square feet in total floor area, measured to the outer 
face of any posts, columns, or enclosing elements. A carport shall not have a larger 
footprint than the enclosed footprint of the principal building. A carport exceeding 
600 square feet in total floor area, may be approved through conditional use review. 
f. A carport shall not exceed the height of the principal building, measured from 
finished grade to the highest point of the principal building's roof. A carport 
exceeding the height of the principal building may be approved through conditional 
use review. 
g. No more than two sides of a carport may be enclosed in any manner. On any side 
where enclosure is provided, the lower 50% of the vertical wall facade shall remain 
open and unobstructed for the full horizontal extent of that facade, measured from 
finished grade to the underside of the roof or eave. Structural columns or posts shall 
not be considered enclosure elements. As an alternative to the open facade 
requirement above, the lower 50% of any enclosed side may be filled in with solid 
material provided the Director finds that the proposed enclosure material, finish, 
color, and detailing are architecturally compatible with the principal building. A 
structure that does not comply with this subsection shall be regulated as a garage or 
enclosed accessory building under section 5.8.8.     
h. A building permit is required for any carport regulated under this section.  
 
Section 6.  That Section 5.8.9 of the UDC be added to the list of sections at the beginning 
of 5.8. 
5.8  Supplemental Provisions 
5.8.1 Wireless Telecommunication Services 
5.8.2 Manufactured Homes and Parks 
5.8.3 Drive-through facilities 
5.8.4 Fences 
5.8.5 Refuse Containers 
5.8.6 Outdoor Storage 
5.8.7 Oil and Gas Support Service 
5.8.8 Accessory Buildings 
5.8.9 Carports 
 
Section 7.  Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any o f the remaining 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
 Section 8.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
Page 4 of 4 
 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
 
(SEAL) 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 17
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
focused. In addition, where the code specifically references 
PlanCheyenne or references specific types of activity centers 
described in PlanCheyenne the additional guidance in the 
Plan may be used to determine the context or applicability of 
a particular standard.
Adjacent.  A description of the proximity of two elements which 
includes abutting and any surrounding vicinity where the 
impacts described could be reasonably assumed to extend.
Alley.  A low capacity, low speed and minor street or access 
way typically located on the rear or side of properties and 
used for access to parking, service areas, accessory buildings or 
easements and not intended for through traffic.
Antenna. Any exterior transmitting or receiving communication 
device mounted on a tower, building or structure and used 
in communications that radiate or capture electromagnetic 
waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies 
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals 
or other communication signals.
Appeal.  A written request for a review of any final action or 
decision allowed by the provisions of this Title.
Applicant.  Any person(s), firm, corporation or entity requesting 
permission or desiring to officially apply for any action regulated 
by this Title.
Average Daily Traffic (ADT).  The total volume of vehicles during 
a given time period (in whole days greater than one day and 
less than one year) divided by the number of days in that time 
period.
Awning.  A shelter constructed of non-rigid materials along 
windows and sidewalks at the first story of a building, and 
mounted on a supporting framework projecting from and 
supported by the exterior wall of a building.
Base Flood Elevation. The elevation of the flood having a one 
percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Berm.   A mound of earth designed to provide a screen.
Best Management Practice. A technique, process, activity, or 
structure used to reduce pollutant discharges in stormwater. 
BMPs include source control practices (non-structural BMPs) 
and engineered structures designed to treat runoff. BMPs are 
most effective when used in combination and selected and 
designed based on site-specific characteristics. 
or, where there is not a ceiling, to the top of the roof 
rafters.
a. Stories shall begin at the first floor level that is 
between 3’ above finished grade and 4’ below 
grade.
b. The minimum story shall be 9’ and the maximum 
story shall be 14’ , except that the height of the first 
story may be as high as 20’ for all non-residential 
buildings that are 2 stories or more.
c. Exception:  Where ground floor manufacturing 
uses, or warehouse retail is allowed in the zoning 
district, buildings for those uses shall have no 
limit on the first story and the maximum building 
height expressed in feet shall control.
2 Half-story. A space under a sloping roof that has the 
line of intersection of the roof and the exterior wall 
supporting the roof not more than 3’ above the floor 
level, and in which space the possible floor area with 
head room of 6’ or more occupies between 30% and 
70% of the total floor area of the story directly beneath.  
l. Wall plane. Any plane of continuous vertical, horizontal, or 
angled or inclined orientation which represents the exterior 
surface of a building or structure and which is not off-set 
by projections or recessions of at least 18 inches. Greater 
required off-sets and required total area of off-sets for wall 
planes may be specified in the context of these regulations. 
1.4.3 Defined Terms
All words and phrases shall have their ordinary and customary 
meanings unless the context of the word or phrase indicates 
otherwise. The following terms shall have the meaning given 
below, unless the context of the use of the term clearly indicates 
otherwise based on the Purposes, Intent, Design Objective or 
other guidance associated with its use in a particular section.  
Abutting.  A description of proximity where two elements share 
a common boundary.
Access Point .  A driveway, internal access street or similar 
vehicular entrance or exit to the interior of a block, lot or parcel 
from a street.
Accessory Use.  A subordinate use, clearly incidental and related 
to the principal use and located on the same property. 
Activity Center . Places where economic and social activity are 
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 18
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
the ordinance codified in this Title, or prior to the effective date 
of a provision in this Title, whichever is earlier, or one for which a 
building permit has been issued, or erected in accordance with 
this code after its adoption.
Building, Nonconforming.  A building existing or one for which 
a building permit has been issued at the time of the adoption 
of this code which does not comply with the regulations of the 
zoning district in which the building is located.
Building, Principal.   A building in which is conducted the main or 
principal use of the property on which the building is situated. 
Canopy.  A shelter constructed of rigid materials covered with 
fabric, metal or other material, along windows and sidewalks 
at the first story of a building, and projecting from the exterior 
wall, which may be freestanding or supported by a building at 
one or more points and by columns or posts embedded in the 
ground at other points.
Caretaker Unit. One or more living quarters or lodging facilities 
located within a non-residential building for the use of 
employees of the use. A Caretaker Unit shall not be considered 
a ‘residential use’ or ‘residential unit’ for the purposes of this 
code but shall be considered part of the non-residential square 
footage for the purposes of the code. The combined square 
footage of all Caretaker Units shall not comprise more than 
ten (10) percent of the principal use’s building square footage 
(should dwelling area exceed this amount, the living area shall 
be determined to be a “Mixed-use Dwelling” and a residential 
use for the purposes of this code). A Caretaker Unit is allowed 
as part of the approval of the principal use without any more 
restrictive approval process than that warranted for the 
principal use.
Carport. A carport functions to offer limited protection to 
vehicles from the elements. The structure may be free standing 
or attached to another structure.
Certificate of Compliance. A certificate issued by the Development 
Office which indicates that the site plan requirements have 
been met.
Changeable Sign.  A sign whose informational content can be 
changed or altered by manual, electric, electromechanical or 
electronic means.  Changeable signs do not include Digital 
Billboards as defined in this code.
Change of Use.   Change of use constitutes at least one of the 
following:
1.  The proposed use is appreciably different than the 
Bicycle Route.   A portion of a system of bikeways designated 
by appropriate route markers which can be a bicycle trail or 
bikeway.  
Bicycle Trail.  A trail or path separated from motor vehicles and 
designated exclusively for bicycles or shared by bicycles and 
pedestrians.
Bikeway.  A street designed to incorporate bicycle travel through 
either shared vehicle / bicycle lanes or designated bicycle lanes.
Billboard. A sign structure advertising an establishment, a 
message, merchandise, service or entertainment which is not 
located, sold, produced, manufactured or furnished at the 
property on which the sign is located.  Billboard includes Digital 
Billboard as defined in this code.
Blinking. A form of flashing where the pattern of sudden 
illumination changes occurs with more than 2 on-off cycles per 
second.
Block.   An area of land that is entirely bounded by streets or 
other boundary permitted by these regulations where streets 
are not appropriate based on the context. 
Block Frontage.  The side or sides of a block that the majority of 
the lots or tracts face. 
BMP Maintenance. Routinely scheduled activities, as well as 
non-routine repairs that may be required after large storms, or 
as a result of other unforeseen problems, as necessary to ensure 
proper BMP function. 
Building.   Any structure used or intended for supporting or 
sheltering any use or occupancy.
Building, Accessory.  A detached, subordinate structure, the use 
of which is clearly incidental and related to that of the principal 
building or use of the land, and which is located on the same 
property as that of the principal structure or use. A carport 
accessory to residential uses on lots that do not require site plan 
review shall be regulated exclusively under the standards of 
section 5.8.9 and shall not be considered an accessory building 
for the purposes of this Code. 
Building, Attached.  A building having one or more party walls in 
common with an adjacent building.
Building, Detached.  A building having no common wall or 
structural attachment with another building.
Building, Existing.  A building erected prior to the adoption of 
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 19
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Cul-de-sac.  A short dead-end street terminating with a 
vehicular turn-around area.
Curb Radii.  The curved or flared portion of a street curb at 
driveway approaches or intersections.
Decorative Fence. A fence constructed out of materials such as 
wood, stone, or metal, or a combination thereof, primarily for 
aesthetic purposes to enhance the appearance of a property 
and generally not obstructing the visibility into or out of a 
property. A decorative fence shall not include chain link, wire, 
snow fences, or a standard wooden or vinyl privacy fences
Detention. The temporary storage of storm runoff in a 
stormwater management facility with the goals of controlling 
peak discharge rates and providing gravity settling of 
pollutants.
Detention Facility. A detention basin or alternative structure 
designed for the purpose of temporary storage of stream 
flow or surface runoff and gradual release of stored water at 
controlled rates. 
Developer.  The owner of land proposed for development, or 
the owner’s authorized representative, or any person who 
causes the following to take place either directly or indirectly:  
division of property for the purpose of development; 
sells, leases or develops property, or offers or advertises or 
otherwise engages in business for the same; or has control 
or is controlled in such a way to have influence in any of the 
above.
Development.  Any man-made change to real estate, 
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings 
or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, 
excavation or drilling. 
Development Footprint. The development footprint is the 
total land area that is permanently affected by development 
activities, and includes buildings, structures, hardscape, 
utilities, roads and parking areas, maneuvering areas, storage 
areas, areas associated with the use on the property, and 
areas cleared of natural vegetation and topsoil.
Digital Billboard. A billboard displaying static images 
controlled by electronic communications.
Dissolve.  A transition between digital messages that is 
achieved with varying light intensity and where the first 
message gradually appears to dissipate and loses legibility 
simultaneous to the gradual appearance and legibility of the 
subsequent message.
current use;
2. There is an increase in the size of the existing building or 
extent of the use of the land;
3.  The use is permitted in the zoning district in which the use 
is located, but requires more parking than the previous 
use;
4.  The number of vehicle trips generated by the new use is or 
will be greater than the number of vehicle trips generated 
by the previous use as determined by the Institute of 
Transportation Engineers Trip Generation, latest edition;
5.  The amount of stormwater runoff or impervious (to 
drainage) surface area will be increased with the new use.
Channel. A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and 
banks that conveys continuously or periodically flowing water. 
Interchangeable terms include creek, drainageway, river, stream, 
and watercourse.
City Engineer. The City of Cheyenne City Engineer, his designated 
representative or the City Engineering Department.
Comprehensive Plan. The general plan for land use, transportation, 
utilities, annexation, and community facilities prepared and 
maintained by the Commission, and any other more specific plan, 
program or policy prepared under the guidance of that plan.
Construction, New.   Structures for which the construction 
commenced on or after the effective date of the ordinance codified 
in this Title.
Construction, Start of.  The first placement of permanent 
construction of a structure (other than a manufactured home), 
such as the excavation of footings or foundations, or the pouring 
of slabs or foundations. Permanent construction does not include 
land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, nor does it 
include the installation of streets and/or sidewalks. For a structure 
(other than a manufactured home) without a basement or poured 
footings, the “start of construction” includes the first permanent 
framing or assembly of the structure or any part thereof on 
its piling or foundation. For manufactured home not within a 
manufactured home park or subdivision, “start of construction” 
means the affixing of the manufactured home to its permanent 
site. For manufactured home within manufactured home parks 
or manufactured home subdivisions, “start of construction” is the 
date on which the structure is to be affixed.
Corner lot. See “Lot, corner. ”
Crosswalk. Any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for 
pedestrian crossing.
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 20
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Flashing. A pattern of changing light illumination where the 
sign illumination alternates suddenly between fully illuminated 
and fully non-illuminated in a time frame of less than 4 seconds.
Floor Area Ratio (FAR). The total square feet of the building 
divided by the total square feet of the lot the building is located 
on.
Foot Candle. A unit of illuminance equal to 1 lumen, uniformly 
incident upon an area of 1 square foot.
Freeboard. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a 
flood level for purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard 
compensates for the many unknown factors that could 
contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated 
for the design flood.
Functional turf grass. An area of living turf grass or lawn that is 
used regularly for human recreational purposes or domestic 
animal use. Functional turf grass or lawns include Kentucky 
bluegrasses, fescues, or similar sod-forming grasses requiring ½ 
inch or more of supplemental watering per week during hot, 
dry periods.
Garage.  A building or portions of a building for the storage of 
automobiles or other property, accessory to the principle use 
of the site.
Greenway. A linear open space established along either a 
natural corridor, such as a stream valley, or overland along a 
road or railroad right-of-way converted to recreational use;  a 
natural or landscaped course prepared for pedestrian or bicycle 
passage; certain designated strips or linear parks and open 
spaces connected and designated by the City as part of the 
Greenway System.
Height. When referring to a tower or other structure, height is 
the distance measured from the finished grade of the parcel to 
the highest point on the tower or other structure, including the 
base pad and any antenna.
High-power Transmission Lines.  Transmission lines which carry 
sixty-nine thousand (69,000) volts or more.  
Immediate.  A transition between static message displays that is 
achieved in 2 seconds or less.
Impoundment Yard.  A fenced yard or enclosed area where 
storage of vehicles seized by,  and in the custody of, a 
government agency, are stored for retrieval by the vehicle 
owner or are sold by proper means by the agency.
Double frontage lot. See “Lot, double frontage. ”
Drive-in or Drive-up Facility.   A portion of an establishment 
designed for retail or service to persons in automobiles, 
including a driveway approach, order facilities, signs and 
delivery windows.  
Driveway.  A vehicle access way located on private property.
Driveway Approach.  A constructed vehicle access point within 
the right-of-way between the roadway and the adjacent 
property line.
Dwelling Unit.   One or more rooms which are intended for 
human occupancy as a place of residence with facilities for 
living, cooking and eating for one family unit, manifesting 
around one single kitchen, excluding wet bars with no stove 
or range, and one single laundry facility. Cooking facilities and 
other accommodations, such as laundry, should be accessible 
to all occupants of the dwelling through internally connected 
spaces.
Easement. A permanent or temporary grant of right by a 
property owner to the public, a corporation or other person(s) 
for the use of a strip or parcel of land for specified purposes. 
Ownership shall remain with the property owner. 
Electrical Sign. A sign or sign structure in which electrical wiring, 
connections or fixtures are used.  Electrical sign does not include 
a digital billboard as defined in this section.
Fade. A transition between static message displays that is 
achieved with varying light intensity and where the first 
message gradually loses light intensity to the point of not 
being legible and the subsequent message gradually increases 
intensity to the point of legibility.
Family Unit. One or more persons who are related by blood, 
marriage, domestic partnership or legal adoption living together 
as a single household; or a group of not more than four (4) 
persons not related by blood, marriage, domestic partnership 
or legal adoption, living together as a single household.
Fence.  A man-made partition, structure, wall or a gate erected 
as a dividing marker, barrier, enclosure or screening device. 
Flag.  A sign made of fabric or other non-rigid material with no 
enclosing framework containing distinctive colors, patterns, or 
symbols, used as identification for or a symbol of a government, 
political subdivision, or other entity. 
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 21
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
sidewalks and driveways. 
Landscaping, Xeriscape.  A water-saving landscape design that 
limits turf areas, utilizes mulches, efficient irrigation (often 
drip or subsurface) and use of native or drought-tolerant 
plant materials. When done properly, it is as lush and green as 
traditional landscapes, but has the benefits of lower water use 
and less maintenance after establishment. 
Loading Space.   An on- or off-street space for the standing, 
loading, and unloading of vehicles, people or articles. 
Lot.  A designated unit of land established by a plat or otherwise 
as permitted by law, for the transfer of ownership or to be used, 
developed, or built upon, whether immediate or future.
Low Impact Development (LID). An approach to land 
development (or redevelopment) that works with nature 
to manage stormwater as close to its source as possible.  LID 
emphasizes conservation and use of on-site natural features to 
protect water quality.  This approach implements engineered 
small-scale hydrologic controls to mimic the pre-development 
hydrologic regime of watersheds through infiltrating, filtering, 
storing, evaporating, and detaining runoff. The term Green 
Infrastructure may also be used. 
Major Drainageway. Any drainage flow path mapped with an 
area of special flood hazard on the Flood Insurance Rate Map 
(FIRM).
Manufactured Home.  A structure transportable in one or more 
sections which, in the traveling mode, is 8 body feet or more 
in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected 
on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a 
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling 
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to 
the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-
conditioning and electrical systems contained therein; except 
that such term shall include any structure which meets all the 
requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements 
and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a 
certification required by the secretary (HUD) and complies with 
the standards established by HUD.  For manufactured homes 
built prior to June 15, 1976, a label certifying compliance to the 
standard for mobile homes, NFPA 501, ANSI 119.1, in effect at 
the time of manufacture is required. 
Massage Therapy. A medical service that emphasizes the 
therapeutic benefits of massage, aiming to address specific health 
concerns and practiced by a person who holds a massage therapist 
Improvement.  Buildings, structures and all facilities of a public 
nature indented for public use – including streets, sidewalks, 
curbs, gutters, alleys and other public ways, parks, recreational 
facilities, water, sewage, solid waste disposal and other sanitary 
systems and facilities.
Infill Development. For commercial or residential parcels shall be 
defined by the following criteria:
1. One parcel surrounded by urban development on at 
least three sides (does not have to be directly adjacent 
to); and
2. Served by existing underground sewer and water 
utilities.
Infiltration. The process of percolating stormwater into the 
subsoil.
Interior lot. See “Lot, interior. ”
Intermittent. A pattern of changing light intensity, other than 
that achieved with immediate, fade or dissolve transitions, 
where any message remains static for over 4 seconds.
Intersection.  The junction of two streets.
Land Disturbance Activity. Grading, digging, cutting, scraping, 
or excavating of soil, placement of fill materials, paving, 
construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any activity 
which bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of 
any natural or man-made watercourse.
Landscape Points System.  The point system used for determining 
the minimum vegetation requirement. 
Landscaped Setback. The minimum required landscaping area 
on private or government-owned property which is adjacent to 
a property line common to a street right-of-way.  Driveways and 
sidewalks to afford required access shall be allowed to interrupt 
this required space. 
Landscape, Street Tree Area.   The landscaped area between 
property line and the street, within the right-of-way.
Landscaping.  Any combination of living plants, such as trees, 
shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers or grass; natural features, 
such as rock, stone, bark chips or shavings; and structural 
features, including, but not limited to, fountains, reflecting 
pools, outside art work, screen walls, fences or benches. 
Landscaping, Internal.   That area that lies within the property 
lines not covered by buildings, parking, outside storage, 
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 22
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
Parking Space.   A space specially designed for the parking of a 
motor vehicle.
Party Wall.   A wall common to two or more units which are 
intended to be individually owned. 
Pedestrian.  A person on foot or a self-propelled conveyance 
intended for use of persons with physical impairments.
Person.  An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, or 
association, or any combination of these, or any other legal or 
commercial entity acting as a unit.
Pre-existing Towers and Pre-existing Antennas.  Any tower 
or antenna for which a building permit or wireless 
telecommunications permit (WTP) was issued prior to the 
effective date of this Title, including permitted towers or 
antennas that have not yet been constructed so long as such 
approval is current and not expired.
Public Drainage System. The system of storm sewers, channels, 
culverts, creeks, flows within public streets, and associated 
detention and water quality structures owned and maintained 
by the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, or the Wyoming 
Department of Transportation. 
Public Land.   Land owned, controlled and/or operated by a 
governmental unit. 
Published Notice.    A notice provided in accordance with 
Wyoming Statutes. 
Recreational Vehicle (RV).   A vehicle or unit primarily designed 
for human habitation for recreation or travel, which may include 
a motor home, camper, travel trailer, or park model recreational 
vehicle. 
Redevelopment. The replacement of impervious surfaces on a 
developed site that is surrounded by urban development on 
at least three sides.  Redevelopment occurs when the existing 
facilities are demolished and rebuilt or substantially changed 
through reconstruction.  Resurfacing parking lots with no 
charge in overall dimensions or drainage patterns is not 
considered redevelopment even if the pavement is completely 
replaced. 
Regional Detention Facilities.   A system or parts of a system to 
control run-off from a defined area within a drainage basin and 
designed to coordinate with other similar facilities to manage 
the drainage basin and tributaries, typically considering areas 
greater than 100 acres or capacities of more than 30 acre-feet 
or as otherwise specified in a drainage master plan or current 
permit pursuant to chapter 5.52, title 5, of the city code.
Moving Light.  The physical change in position of any visible 
illumination source while lighted or the simulation of movement 
achieves with a pattern of sequentially illuminating visible 
illumination sources within close proximity to each other.
MS4 Permit. A state or federal stormwater discharge permit 
to regulate discharges from municipal separate storm 
sewer systems (MS4s) for compliance with Clean Water Act 
regulations; used interchangeably with the term National 
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit and 
collectively referred to as federal stormwater discharge permit.
Nonfunctional turf grass. An area of living turf grass or lawn 
that is not used regularly for human recreational purposes or 
domestic animal use. Nonfunctional turf grass or lawns include 
Kentucky bluegrasses, fescues, or similar sod-forming grasses 
requiring ½ inch or more of supplemental watering per week 
during hot, dry periods.
Nonpoint Source Pollution. Pollution from any source other than 
from any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyances, and 
shall include, but not be limited to, pollutants from agricultural, 
silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and 
urban runoff sources.
Off-premise Sign.  Any sign not identified as a “Billboard” and 
which is used for the purpose of displaying, advertising, 
identifying, or directing attention to a business, service, activity 
or place, including products or services sold or offered for 
sale, on premises other than the premises where such sign is 
displayed.
Open Space Systems.  A system of various types of outdoor space, 
designed to function as aesthetic, recreation, and ecological 
support for development. Elements of the open space system 
can include private, common, or public open spaces. 
Owner.   The owner of record of a parcel of land, as recorded in 
the office of the county clerk. 
Parapet.   The architectural enhancement in the design of the 
façade that extends ornamental details above a roof line to the 
extent necessary to screen the roof and roof-top equipment.
Parcel.   A contiguous  unit of land  owned and recorded as the 
property of the same persons or controlled by a single entity.
Parking Lot.  An area other than a street or alley designated for 
the parking of five or more motor vehicles. 
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 23
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
for which no legal owner can be found.
Sign, Electronic Message Center.   A sign where alphabetic, 
pictographic or symbolic informational content can be changed 
or altered on a fixed display surface composed of electrically 
illuminated or mechanically driven, changeable segments.
Sign, Government.  A sign erected and maintained by the United 
States or state of Wyoming, or any political subdivision thereof, 
for traffic direction or for designation of or direction to any 
school, hospital, historical site or public service, property or 
facility.
Sign, Nameplate.  A sign giving only the name, address and/or 
occupation of an occupant or group of occupants. 
Sign, Portable.   A sign not permanently attached to the 
ground or other permanent structure, or a sign designed to 
be transported, including, but not limited to, signs designed 
to be transported by means of wheels, signs converted to A- 
or T-frames, and balloons used as signs.  “Portable sign” shall 
not include umbrellas used for advertising, signs carried by 
individuals, and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked 
and visible from the public right-of-way when such vehicle is 
used in the normal day-to-day operations of a business. 
Site Plan.  A plan of the land showing the existing and proposed 
features for the property. 
Static. Having no motion within a particular message or copy 
displayed on a digital billboard.
Storm Sewer.  An underground pipe system that carries 
stormwater from streets and other surfaces and discharges 
directly to a pond, stream or river; used interchangeably with 
the term “storm drain. ”
Stormwater Management. Anything associated with the 
planning, construction, maintenance, or regulation of facilities 
which collect, store, convey or treat stormwater. 
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP). A written plan 
required under state and federal stormwater discharge permits 
identifying measures that will be implemented to minimize 
the discharge of pollutants in stormwater.  Requirements for 
SWPPPs are specified in state and federal discharge permits.  
Requirements vary depending on whether the discharge 
permit is associated with municipal, industrial, or construction 
activities. 
Stormwater Retrofit. A stormwater management practice 
Storm Drainage Manual.
Remainder Lot.  A lot or tract of land designated on a plat 
which is not eligible for development, or to service adjacent 
development, and may be reserved for future platting. A 
remainder lot shall not be for the purpose of sale, lease, or 
financing; nor be eligible for development. Remainder lots 
shall not be required to meet the dimensional standards of 
the zoning district. Developed properties, excluding land 
developed for agricultural purposes, are not eligible to be 
remainder lots. Remainder lot(s) must be referred to as “outlots” , 
“remainder lots” , or “tracts” on plats.
Right-of-way.  Land dedicated and set aside for use by the 
public,  primarily for the right of vehicle or pedestrian travel, 
but typically designed to include multiple and other public 
purposes.
Roadway.  That portion of a street designed and intended 
primarily for vehicles.
Sanitary System . A sewer system or systems including 
mechanisms of collection, treatment and disposal of domestic 
and/or commercial sewage. 
Screening.  A feature used to visually separate elements on 
abutting or adjacent development sites. 
Self-Contained Unit.   A recreational vehicle equipped with 
its own water supply, sanitary facilities, and wastewater 
containment, capable of independent habitation. 
Sidewalk.  That portion of a street designed and intended 
primarily for use of pedestrians.
Sign. Any announcement, declaration, demonstration, display 
illustration or insignia, or other identification, that is visible from 
any public place or is located on private property and exposed 
to the public and that directs attention to a product, service, 
place, activity, person, institution, business or solicitation, 
including structures that exist to support or enhance the sign.
Sign, Animated.   A sign that uses movement or change of 
lighting to depict action or create a special effect or scene. 
Signs, Building Marker.  A sign indicating the name of a building, 
a date and incidental information about its construction, cut 
into a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent 
material. 
Sign, Abandoned.  A sign which no longer identifies or advertises 
a bona fide business, service, owner, product, or activity, and/or 
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 24
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
for telephone, radio and similar communication purposes, 
including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers or 
monopole towers. The term includes, but is not limited to, 
radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, 
common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative 
tower structures and any tower support.
Tract.   A unit of land established by a plat or otherwise as 
permitted by law, designated for limited or no development as 
part of an approved plan for a legitimate public or community 
purpose and designated for public or common ownership and 
maintenance.
Traffic-control Devices.   Signs, signals, markings, or other 
approved geometric designs in the roadway approved by the 
public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of 
regulating, warning, guiding, or calming traffic.
Triple frontage lot. See “Lot, triple frontage. ”
Unit Space. A designated portion of a manufactured home park 
for the accommodation of one manufactured home. 
Urban Drainage and Flood Control District (UDFCD). The 
metropolitan Denver drainage organization. 
Utilities, Essential Services.  Those utility facilities that provide 
end user services to customers. They include local distribution 
and collection lines for gas, electricity, water, sewer, telephone 
or cable TV services throughout neighborhoods and connect 
with each customer. They consist of cables, wires or pipes 
with limited capacities and the associated hardware, such as 
transformers, relays and shut-off valves. They also consist of 
traffic-control boxes and traffic signal installations. 
Utility Facilities. Any utility facility, whether or not regulated by 
the Wyoming Public Service Commission, not described as an 
essential service utility. 
Wall, Retaining. A physical barrier necessary to prevent erosion 
and/or retain earth. 
Water Quality Capture Volume (WQCV).  Represents runoff from 
frequent storm events such as the 80th percentile storm.  The 
volume varies depending on local rainfall data.  The WQCV is 
based on runoff from 0.6 inches of precipitation (approximately 
0.5 inches of runoff ).
Water System.  A public or private system of providing potable 
water to a structure for domestic use. 
designed for an existing development site that previously 
had either no stormwater management practice in place or 
a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management 
requirements of the site. 
Stormwater Runoff. Also known as Stormwater, means flow 
on the surface of the ground, resulting from precipitation.  
Interchangeable terms include drainage and runoff.
Street.  Any public  way for the movement of vehicular and 
pedestrian traffic which is an existing federal, state, county or 
municipal roadway; or a right-of-way shown upon a plat, and 
approved pursuant to law, whether improved or unimproved, 
and may comprise pavement, shoulders, curbs, gutters, 
sidewalks, parking areas and other areas within the right-of-
way.
 Street, Arterial.  Refers to the functional classification of a street 
in the entire transportation network, which has considerable 
continuity over long distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the 
context, the standards in these regulations, and other specific 
transportation plans and policies.
Street, Collector.  Refers to the functional classification of a street 
in the entire transportation network, which has moderate 
continuity over medium distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the 
context, the standards in these regulations, and other specific 
transportation plans and policies.
Street, Local.  Refers to the functional classification of a street in 
the entire transportation network, which has limited continuity 
except for short distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the 
context, the standards in these regulations, and other specific 
transportation plans and policies.
Structure.   That which is built or constructed, an edifice, or 
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up 
or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner. 
Tiedown.  Any device designed to anchor a manufactured home 
or any other accessory building or structure to the ground. 
Temporary Use.   A use or activity that is intended to occupy the 
site on a non-continuous basis for more than 14 days.
Tower. Any structure that is designed and constructed 
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas 
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions
Article 1
GenerAl Provisions 1.4     interPretAtion1.4     interPretAtion
1 - 25
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
matching the appearance of a house or townhouse.  A 
duplex may be situated on its own fee simple lot, but 
each unit of a side-by-side paired house shall meet 
all requirements to be platted on individual lots. Two 
units in the same building in the form of “flat-over-flat” 
duplex shall be considered an Accessory Dwelling, not 
a Semi-attached Dwelling.
Cottage Lot. A Residential use utilizing detached 
dwellings, semi-attached dwellings, or attached 
dwellings designed to face a common area (typically 
open space) with other shared facilities (such as 
shared public street access, shared parking, shared 
trash collection, etc.). Individual dwelling units may 
be on fee simple lots, a condominium, or on one 
larger ownership parcel. A cottage lot is also known as 
“bungalow court” or “cottage court” . Cottage lots are 
subject to the provisions of UDC Section 6.6.5.   
Group Housing.  A residential use, Group Housing is the 
provision of in-home, 24-hour, 7-days a week custodial 
care for from 1 to 6 individuals living together as a 
single housekeeping unit in a single -family, detached 
dwelling unit. This maximum number excludes 
staff. This use does not include a household where 
custodial care is provided by a family member to 
from 1 to 6 persons in a single-family, detached 
dwelling unit. Custodial care includes the provision 
of in-home personal assistance, housekeeping 
service, supervision, and limited medical assistance 
to a resident or residents. Examples of Group Housing 
include, but are not limited to, homes for elders and 
disabled or mobility- impaired persons, homes for 
rehabilitation from drugs or alcohol addiction, or 
homes for formerly incarcerated persons. The Group 
Housing use is subject to the provisions of Section 
5.7.5.d and e of the UDC.
Dormitories. A Residential use in a building that 
provides sleeping accommodations for a number of 
people.
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”).  A Residential 
use in a building designed for more than two principal 
dwelling units and situated on a single fee simple lot.  
This building type includes a variety of variations based 
on the permitted building scale, including “stacked 
flats” (3-story/tri-plex), “six-plex” (paired stacked flats), 
or larger apartment buildings.  
Woonerf. A street designed for use by pedestrian and vehicular 
traffic, where the pedestrian has the right-of-way.
WyDEQ. The Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality.
1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings
This section contains general descriptions associated with the 
uses of land and buildings. It is organized according to categories 
of uses and specific types of uses within each category. These 
categories and types correspond to the Use Table in Article 5, 
Zoning Regulations. Where a use appears to meet two or more 
descriptions or where a use is not described, the Director shall 
make a determination.  If a use meets all of the characteristics of 
a use category and use type, or is so similar to a described use 
type as to create no anticipated differential impact, the Director 
may interpret that the described use includes the additional 
use. In making this determination, the Director shall compare: 
(a) the intensity and scale of the use relative to the site; (b) the 
typical site and building designs associated with the use; (c) 
the functional or operational characteristics and the potential 
impacts of the use on adjacent property; and (d) the potential 
contribution of the use to the overall character of the district or 
districts in which the comparable use is allowed.  All other uses 
which cannot be interpreted in this manner are different from 
the described uses, are not anticipated by these regulations, 
and may only be allowed by a zoning text amendment.
a. Residential Uses.  The Residential use category is for all 
types of dwelling units used for permanent residence, 
including a variety of lot types, building types, and unit 
types, that may vary in the kind and classes of buildings 
based on the character of the neighborhood. 
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse” / “Rowhouse”).  A 
Residential use in a building designed with a series of 
attached principal dwelling units separated by a single 
common wall.  Each unit is typically situated on its own 
fee simple lot where party walls are used, but buildings 
or grounds may be owned in common. Each unit has 
the same orientation and front façade, and has its own 
private entrance to the exterior of the structure. 
Detached Dwelling. A Residential use in a detached 
building designed as a single principal dwelling unit 
and situated on its own fee simple lot.
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”).  A Residential use 
in a detached building designed as a “paired house, ” 
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: "AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 1.4.3 AND 5.8.8  OF THE 
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE  AND CREATING SECTION 5.8.9 
CARPORTS TO CREATE DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS FOR 
CARPORTS.” 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1.  That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
that is the subject of this ordinance meets the criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the Unified 
Development Code of the City of Cheyenne (UDC). 
 
Section 2.  That on May 18, 2026, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing, 
reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text amendment. 
 
Section 3.  That Section 1.4.3 of the UDC is amended to add the following definitions and 
read as shown in Exhibit A, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Building, Accessory. A detached, subordinate structure, the use of which is clearly incidental and 
related to that of the principal building or use of the land, and which is located on the same property 
as that of the principal structure or use. A carport accessory to residential uses on lots that do not 
require site plan review shall be regulated exclusively under the standards of section 5.8.9 and 
shall not be considered an accessory building for the purposes of this Code.   
 
Carport. A carport functions to offer limited protection to vehicles from the elements. The 
structure may be free standing or attached to another structure. 
 
Section 4.  That Section 5.8.8 of the UDC is amended to read: 
 
5.8.8 Accessory Buildings 
 
Accessory buildings associated with residential uses shall meet the following standards: 
a. There shall be a principal building constructed on the site prior to an accessory building 
being permitted. 
b. For double frontage, triple frontage and corner lots, the setback for a wall with vehicular 
access parallel to the adjacent right-of-way shall be 25', otherwise the setback for double 
frontage, triple frontage and corner lots shall be half of the required principal building's 
front setback. 
c. Accessory buildings under 200 sq. ft. shall be allowed a side and rear setback of 0-feet. 
d. An accessory building shall not encroach on any recorded easement. 
e. Up to two accessory buildings shall be allowed per lot. 
f. The maximum total building footprint of all accessory buildings shall be equal to or less 
than 15% of the property area. 
Page 2 of 4 
 
g. Accessory Buildings shall not have a larger building footprint than the principal buildings 
enclosed footprint (porches and decks do not count toward the principal buildings 
footprint). 
h. Exceptions to accessory building height, area, and number may be approved by 
conditional use approval pursuant to UDC 2.2.4. 
i. The provisions of subsections (a), (b), (e), (f), and (g) of this section do not apply to 
accessory buildings approved in conjunction with a site plan. 
j. To be considered a separate building, the structures must not share any structural 
attachment and no part of either building may be within 3' of the other when viewed from 
plan view. Two structures closer than 3' or with a structural attachment shall be 
considered one building for the purposes of setback, area, and number. 
k. Carports accessory to residential uses that do not require site plan review are not 
accessory buildings for the purposes of this section and shall be regulated exclusively 
under section 5.8.9. Carports shall not be counted toward the number of accessory 
buildings permitted under subsection (e)., nor shall their footprint be counted toward the 
maximum total accessory building footprint under subsection (f). A structure that does 
not meet the definition or standards of a carport under section 5.8.9 shall be regulated as 
an accessory building under this section. 
 
Section 5.  That Section 5.8.9 of the UDC is created to read:  
 
5.8.9   Carports 
 
Carports accessory to residential uses that do not require site plan review shall meet all of the 
standards of this section. Carports requiring site plan review shall comply with applicable design 
standards and development regulations of the zone district in which they are located. 
a. A principal building shall be constructed on the site prior to a carport being permitted.  
b. A carport shall meet all standards for driveways in the zone district. 
c. The following setback standards shall apply: 
1. Front yard carports shall be set back a minimum of 5-feet from any public sidewalk 
and 10-feet from the curb. The Director may reduce this setback to 0 feet through 
administrative adjustment upon finding that the carport will not interfere with a 
current or future public sidewalk. 
2. Side and rear setbacks shall conform to the accessory building setback standards of 
the zone district. 
3. On corner lots where a carport takes direct vehicular access from a side street through 
the narrow dimension of the carport, the side yard setback from the street-facing side 
property line may be reduced to 5-feet from any public sidewalk and 10-feet from the 
curb. The Director may reduce this setback to 0 feet through administrative 
adjustment upon finding that the carport will not interfere with a current or future 
public sidewalk. A setback reduction only applies where the carport opening directly 
faces and takes access from the adjacent street. A carport oriented with its long 
dimension oriented towards the side street property line shall not qualify for this 
Page 3 of 4 
 
reduction and shall conform to the accessory building setback standards of the zone 
district. 
d. One carport is permitted per dwelling unit. More than one carport per dwelling unit 
may be approved through conditional use review. 
e. A carport shall not exceed 600 square feet in total floor area, measured to the outer 
face of any posts, columns, or enclosing elements. A carport shall not have a larger 
footprint than the enclosed footprint of the principal building. A carport exceeding 
600 square feet in total floor area, may be approved through conditional use review. 
f. A carport shall not exceed the height of the principal building, measured from 
finished grade to the highest point of the principal building's roof. A carport 
exceeding the height of the principal building may be approved through conditional 
use review. 
g. No more than two sides of a carport may be enclosed in any manner. On any side 
where enclosure is provided, the lower 50% of the vertical wall facade shall remain 
open and unobstructed for the full horizontal extent of that facade, measured from 
finished grade to the underside of the roof or eave. Structural columns or posts shall 
not be considered enclosure elements. As an alternative to the open facade 
requirement above, the lower 50% of any enclosed side may be filled in with solid 
material provided the Director finds that the proposed enclosure material, finish, 
color, and detailing are architecturally compatible with the principal building. A 
structure that does not comply with this subsection shall be regulated as a garage or 
enclosed accessory building under section 5.8.8.     
h. A building permit is required for any carport regulated under this section.  
 
Section 6.  Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance  are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any o f the remaining 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
 Section 7.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
 
(SEAL) 
Page 4 of 4 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
 
1 | Page  
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF CHEYENNE PLANNING COMMISSION 
MAY 18, 2026 
STAFF REPORT 
REQUEST: 
A Text Amendment amending the Unified Development Code (UDC) 
creating 5.8.9 Carports with conforming amendments to UDC 1.4.3 Defined 
Terms and UDC 5.8.8 Accessory Buildings. 
CASE NUMBER: PLTA-26-2  
PURPOSE: To create carport regulations and allow them in the front and side yards.  
PREPARED BY: Connor White, Planner II, Planning and Development  
 
 
RECOMMENDED MOTION: 
Move to recommend the Governing Body approve text amendments to the Unified Development Code 
creating section 5.8.9 Carports and amending section 1.4.3 Defined Terms and section 5.8.8 Accessory 
Buildings as outlined in this staff report and recommended by staff, noting the amendments meet the 
review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
BACKGROUND: 
The City’s Unified Development Code (UDC) was adopted by the Governing Body on January 23, 2012, by 
Ordinance Number 3943 with an effective date of April 30, 2012.  The Unified Development Code is the 
regulatory document carrying out the vision of PlanCheyenne and is reviewed annually pursuant to UDC 1.1.7 
[Annual Review Requirement] to determine if any particular standard or regulation is timely, relevant and 
adequately addresses current market conditions. In addition to the annual review, the City Council, Planning 
and Development Director, and City Engineer are authorized under UDC 2.4.1.b to bring forward text 
amendments on their own initiative.  
 
The proposed text amendments are to create a definition for carports, create regulations for carports and 
remove carports from being considered as an accessory building. A City Council member directed staff to look 
into carports and how to make them more permissible in front of homes and within the side yard. Staff does 
relieve dozens of phone calls a year about carports. A majority of these citizens are wanting to install them on a 
front or side-street driveway.  
 
Under current UDC regulations, carports are reviewed as being an accessory building. Accessory buildings are 
required to be 10-feet behind the front building wall of the principal building (the home) or if they are within 
3-feet of the home they need to meet principal building setbacks which then requires a 25-foot front setback 
from the front property line. These setback requirements would ultimately not allow accessory buildings to be 
placed anywhere in front of the house, including on a front driveway. Many of the phone calls Staff receives are 
about putting carports on front driveways as there is sometimes no other access to the property. Not all homes 
within Cheyenne have rear access or space to place a carport behind the house.  
 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
2 | Page  
  
 
A similar situation occurs on corner lots as well where an accessory building needs to be 25-feet from the 
street side property line if it has vehicular access facing the street. There are many homes that have a side 
loaded garage or a side driveway in which they would like to place a carport but would not be permitted under 
current code. Again, this may be the only access or location they would be able to place one. Similar to the 
front driveway, staff is proposing to allow carports on these side driveways with specific setback requirements.  
 
There are currently many illegal carports throughout Cheyenne that are on front or side driveways which do 
not meet current code standards. Despite the prominence and visibility of these carports, Staff has fielded no 
zoning code complaints or inquiries on the legality of installed front or side street carports – the only complaint 
Staff received was from an individual whose property was damaged by an improperly secured front driveway 
carport blowing onto their property and causing damages. This may be because neighbors assume they are 
already legal or because they do not care about the carport on the nearby property. With the proposed 
amendment many of these illegal carports would become compliant, with zoning code at least. Staff is 
proposing to allow carports within the front setback of a home on a front driveway, with specific setback 
requirements.  
 
Accessory buildings also need to meet the requirements of UDC 5.8.8 which further limits how many accessory 
buildings are permitted and the size of the accessory building. Staff proposes that carports not be considered 
accessory buildings under 5.8.8 and that they meet their own requirements under a new section 5.8.9. This 
would provide more flexibility for carports. Should someone not meet the requirements of 5.8.9 the carport 
would then be treated as an accessory building (as it is today). Staff is proposing to limit the number and size 
of carports, but does give the flexibility of going through the conditional use process to have more or larger 
carports.  
 
Carports are something that staff receives many phone calls about throughout the year and specifically after a 
major storm as people want to protect their vehicles. The proposed amendments are intended to provide 
more flexibility and allow people to place carports on their property more easily. 
 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT: 
The proposed amendments create a definition for carports and regulations specific to carports. The proposed 
amendments would take carports out of being reviewed as an accessory building for any residential use that 
does not require a site plan, and allows them to be placed on driveways in front and on the side of a property.  
 
Specific Text of the Proposed Amendment: 
 
1.4.3 Defined Terms 
… 
Building, Accessory. A detached, subordinate structure, the use of which is clearly incidental and 
related to that of the principal building or use of the land, and which is located on the same property 
as that of the principal structure or use. A carport accessory to residential uses on lots that do not 
require site plan review shall be regulated exclusively under the standards of section 5.8.9 and shall 
not be considered an accessory building for the purposes of this Code.   
… 
Carport. A carport is an accessory building used to offer limited protection to vehicles from the elements. 
The structure may be free standing or attached to another structure. 
 
 
 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
3 | Page  
  
5.8.8 Accessory Buildings 
 
Accessory buildings associated with residential uses shall meet the following standards:  
a. There shall be a principal building constructed on the site prior to an accessory building being 
permitted. 
b. For double frontage, triple frontage and corner lots, the setback for a wall with vehicular access 
parallel to the adjacent right-of-way shall be 25', otherwise the setback for double frontage, triple 
frontage and corner lots shall be half of the required principal building's front setback.  
c. Accessory buildings under 200 sq. ft. shall be allowed a side and rear setback of 0 -feet. 
d. An accessory building shall not encroach on any recorded easement. 
e. Up to two accessory buildings shall be allowed per lot. 
f. The maximum total building footprint of all accessory buildings shall be equal to or less than 15% 
of the property area. 
g. Accessory Buildings shall not have a larger building footprint than the principal buildings 
enclosed footprint (porches and decks do not count toward the principal buildings footprint).  
h. Exceptions to accessory building height, area, and number may be approved by conditional use 
approval pursuant to UDC 2.2.4. 
i. The provisions of subsections (a), (b), (e), (f), and (g) of this section do not apply to accessory 
buildings approved in conjunction with a site plan. 
j. To be considered a separate building, the structures must not share any structural attachment 
and no part of either building may be within 3' of the other when viewed from plan view. Two 
structures closer than 3' or with a structural attachment shall be considered one building for the 
purposes of setback, area, and number. 
k. Carports accessory to residential uses that do not require site plan review are not accessory 
buildings for the purposes of this section and shall be regulated exclusively under section 5.8.9. 
Carports shall not be counted toward the number of accessory buildings permitted under 
subsection (e)., nor shall their footprint be counted toward the maximum total accessory building 
footprint under subsection (f). A structure that does not meet the definition or standards of a 
carport under section 5.8.9 shall be regulated as an accessory building under this section. 
 
5.8.9   Carports 
 
Carports accessory to residential uses that do not require site plan review shall meet all of the standards 
of this section. Carports requiring site plan review shall comply with applicable design standards and 
development regulations of the zone district in which they are located. 
a. A principal building shall be constructed on the site prior to a carport being permitted.  
b. A carport shall meet all standards for driveways in the zone district. 
c. The following setback standards shall apply: 
1. Front yard carports shall be set back a minimum of 2 feet from the street-facing property 
line. The Director may reduce this setback to 0 feet through administrative adjustment 
upon finding that the carport will not interfere with a current or future public sidewalk. 
2. Side and rear setbacks shall conform to the accessory building setback standards of the 
zone district. 
3. On corner lots where a carport takes direct vehicular access from a side street through 
the narrow dimension of the carport, the side yard setback from the street-facing side 
property line may be reduced to 2 feet from the street-facing property line. The Director 
may reduce this setback to 0 feet through administrative adjustment upon finding that 
the carport will not interfere with a current or future public sidewalk. A setback reduction 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
4 | Page  
  
only applies where the carport opening directly faces and takes access from the adjacent 
street. A carport oriented with its long dimension oriented towards the side street 
property line shall not qualify for this reduction and shall conform to the accessory 
building setback standards of the zone district. 
d. One carport is permitted per dwelling unit. More than one carport per dwelling unit may be 
approved through conditional use review. 
e. A carport shall not exceed 600 square feet in total floor area, measured to the outer face of any 
posts, columns, or enclosing elements. A carport shall not have a larger footprint than the 
enclosed footprint of the principal building. A carport exceeding 600 square feet in total floor 
area, may be approved through conditional use review. 
f. A carport shall not exceed the height of the principal building, measured from finished grade to 
the highest point of the principal building's roof. A carport exceeding the height of the principal 
building may be approved through conditional use review. 
g. No more than two sides of a carport may be enclosed in any manner. On any side where 
enclosure is provided, the lower 50% of the vertical wall facade shall remain open and 
unobstructed for the full horizontal extent of that facade, measured from finished grade to the 
underside of the roof or eave. Structural columns or posts shall not be considered enclosure 
elements. As an alternative to the open facade requirement above, the lower 50% of any enclosed 
side may be filled in with solid material provided the Director finds that the proposed enclosure 
material, finish, color, and detailing are architecturally compatible with the principal building. A 
structure that does not comply with this subsection shall be regulated as a garage or enclosed 
accessory building under section 5.8.8.     
h. A building permit is required for any carport regulated under this section.  
ANALYSIS OF CONFORMANCE WITH REVIEW CRITERIA: 
Review of a UDC text amendment shall be measured by the following three (3) criteria of Section 2.4.1.d:  
 
1. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:  
“The amendment is in accordance with general goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan, or is 
necessary to address an emerging issue not anticipated in the Comprehensive Plan and is not 
inconsistent with the plan.” 
  
Carports are not something that was anticipated to be an issue by the Comprehensive Plan. Staff 
has received numerous phone calls from citizens and has been asked by a Council Member to 
investigate ways to allow carports on front driveways and side -loaded driveways. Staff has seen 
carports in the front or side d riveways, as  proposed with this text amendment , and have not 
received complaints.  
 
2. STATE STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS:  
The amendment is consistent with the Wyoming Statutes, and specifically the Municipal Planning and 
Zoning statutes. (The following Articles are all listed verbatim from Wyoming State Statute) 
 
From ARTICLE 6 – ZONING of TITLE 15 CITIES AND TOWNS: 
WY 15-1-601. Regulations; scope and purpose; uniformity within authorized districts; to follow 
plan; objectives. 
(a) The governing body of any city or town, by ordinance, may: 
(i) Regulate and restrict the: 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
5 | Page  
  
…. 
(E) Location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry, residence or other 
purposes. 
Assessment: This amendment proposes modifying the Unified Development Code to change 
regulations regarding structures on a property, which is authorized by state statute. 
 
3. HEALTH, SAFETY, AND PUBLIC WELFARE:  
“The amendment promotes the general health, safety and public welfare.” 
 
This amendment would promote the general health, safety and public welfare of Cheyenne.  
Carports allow for the protection of property (spe cifically vehicles) and, based on the lack of 
complaints, carports have minimal impact on the desire d aesthetics of the community. The 
amendment will give more flexibility to where carports can be placed than what is allowed by 
current code.  
 
REVIEW: 
Staff finds that this text amendment would provide additional flexibility for carports in regard to 
placement on a property and also bring many illegal carports into compliance.  
 
PUBLIC NOTICE AND PUBLIC COMMENTS RECEIVED: 
Although projects have public notice and the opportunity for public comments, projects are required to 
be approved or denied based on the review criteria (listed above). Public comments relevant to the review 
criteria may assist the review and discussion on the application. 
 
The public was given notice of the project in the following ways: 
• News interview in April 2026, inviting the public to weigh in on the proposal (either by contacting 
Staff or by coming to the Planning Commission meeting) 
• Legal Notice in the Wyoming Tribune Eagle published on May 9, 2026 
• Internet Posting on connect.cheyennecity.org on May 11, 2026. 
 
As of the publication of the Staff Report (May 11, 2026), Staff has received no inquires or comments from 
the public on this project.  
 
CONCLUSION: 
Staff is satisfied that the application meets the review criteria set forth in UDC 2. 4.1.d. 
 
ALTERNATIVES: 
1. Recommend approval of the Text Amendment as submitted by the applicant (Staff 
Recommendation).  
2. Recommend approval of the Text Amendment subject to conditions or modifications.  
3. Recommend denial of the Text Amendment based on findings of denial. The Planning 
Commission must conclude that the project does not meet at least one of the review criteria. As 
part of the motion, findings for denial must be stated. 
4. Postpone the Text Amendment until issues identified during the meeting can be resolved. 
 
 
 
 
PLTA-26-2   May 18, 2026 
6 | Page  
  
General Information Regarding Alternatives: 
 
If the Commission acts contrary to staff’s recommendation or recommends conditions of approval, the 
Commission shall cite specific reasons (based on the review criteria) for their recommendation. 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION: 
Staff recommends approval of text amendments to the Unified Development Code creating section 5. 8.9 
Carports and amending 1.4.3 Defined Terms and 5.8.8 Accessory Buildings as outlined in this staff report 
and recommended by staff, noting the amendments meet the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 