RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY 
OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE 
Office of City Clerk 
 
August 24, 2026 
 
The Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne met in regular session on this date beginning 
at 6:00 p.m. in City Council Chambers  and via electronic conference meeting. Present were: 
MAYOR – Patrick Collins COUNCIL MEMBERS – Dr. Michelle Aldrich, Dr. Kathy Emmons, 
Ken Esquibel, Pete Laybourn, Mark Moody, Dr. Mark Rinne , Tom Segrave , Jeff White  and  
Lawrence Wolfe. Also present: Kylie Soden, City Clerk. The pledge of allegiance was recited. 
 
Consent Agenda. (All agenda items listed with the designation of [CA] are considered to be 
routine items by the governing body and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate 
discussion on these items unless a member of the governing body so requests and support by two 
other members is received.  Any item removed from the Consent Agenda will be considered in its 
normal sequence on the agenda). Upon request by Mr. Laybourn, and pursuant to support received 
by Mr. Moody and Mr. Wolfe, item #10(a) was removed from the Consent Agenda. Upon request 
by Dr. Aldrich, and pursuant to support received by Mr. Moody and Mr. Segrave, item #9(a) was 
removed from the Consent Agenda. Mr. Segrave moved to approve remaining items, seconded by 
Dr. Aldrich. Motion carried. Voting “yes” – all members of the governing body. 
 
[CA] Minutes from Regular Meeting of the Governing Body on August 10, 2026. Motion (per 
Consent Agenda) carried. 
 
Mayor Collins opened a public hearing for a transfer of location and ownership of retail 
liquor license application filed with the City Clerk's Office for Capital City Hospitality, LLC d/b/a 
Wyoming Discount Liquor, 3501 E. Lincolnway, Cheyenne, WY (license currently held by 1734 
Partners, LLC, 1734 Meadowland Dr., Cheyenne, WY).  Public comments were made by: John 
Johnson, Capital City Hospitality, LLC and Charles Miller. Comments were made by the following 
members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mayor Collins, Dr. Emmons, Mr. Esquibel, Mr. 
Segrave and Mr. Wolfe. There being no further comments or input and the purpose of the public 
hearing having been met, Mayor Collins closed the public hearing and referred the application to 
Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Naming a triangle -shaped parcel of real property located at the 
intersection of Randall Avenue and Cribbon Avenue as the ‘Dr. Robert M. Farr Park’ (Sponsors – 
Dr. Aldrich and Mr. White) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  RESOLUTION – Opposing federal legislation or regulations that increase maximum truck 
size or weight limits on National Highways  (Sponsor – Dr. Aldrich)  – referred to Finance 
Committee. 
 
 
 
 Memorandum of Understanding between City of Cheyenne, Cheyenne Police Department, 
and Laramie County School District Number One for the School Resource Officers Program 
(Revenue to the City) . Reporting for Finance Committee, Mr. Esquibel moved to approve, 
seconded by Mr. White. Mr. Esquibel moved to amend by substitute dated August 18, 2026, 
seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion to amend by substitute carried. Voting “yes” all members of the 
governing body. Main motion as amended by substitute carried. Voting “yes” all members of the 
governing body. Public comment was made by: Charles Miller. Comments were made by the 
following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich and Dr. Emmons. (#8420) 
 
 Professional Service Agreement between City of Cheyenne and Ardurra Group, Inc. for 
Operation Modification at the Pershing, Converse, and 19th Street Roundabout (2023- 2026 
Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund). Mr. Esquibel advised that the item failed at Finance Committee and 
therefore there was no recommendation. Mr. Esquibel moved to approve in an amount not to 
exceed $186,500.00, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion carried. Voting “yes” all members of the 
governing body with the exception of  Mr. Moody and Dr. Rinne voting “no” . Comments were 
made by the following members of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Wolfe. 
(#8421) 
 
[CA]  Right-of-Way Use Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and CSRE Properties 
Wyoming, LLC for two connections of storm sewer pipe from detention ponds in the Ventura 
Drive right-of-way – referred to Public Services Committee.  
 
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives and Laramie County 
to provide services to the Laramie County Juvenile Crisis Shelter (Revenue to the City) – referred 
to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Contract between the City of Cheyenne, Office of Youth Alternatives and Laramie County 
to provide probation/diversion services to youth appearing in both the Laramie County Circuit 
Court and the Municipal Court (Revenue to the City) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Professional Services Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and Houseal Lavigne 
Associates, LLC for the Cheyenne-Next Comprehensive Plan update (One Time State Distribution 
Funds and General Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Grant Award Agreement between the City of Cheyenne and the Wyoming Office of 
Homeland Security for the Fiscal Year 2025 State Homeland Security Program (Homeland 
Security grant) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
  Contract Modification #1 to Contract #8374 between the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne Downtown Development Authority for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2026 and 
ending June 30, 2027 (General Fund). Mr. Esquibel moved to approve, seconded by Mr. Moody. 
Public comment was made by: Charles Miller. Comments were made by the following members 
of the governing body: Dr. Aldrich, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Wolfe. (#8374)  
 
 
 Consideration of Bid #S -22-26 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and Legacy 
Construction Group for the Christensen Road Detention Erosion Mitigation project (2012 & 2017 
Specific Purpose Option Tax Fund) (Postponed from August 10, 2026). Mr. Esquibel advised there 
was no recommendation from Finance Committee. Mr. Esquibel moved to approve in an amount 
not to exceed $314,905.00, seconded by Mr. Segrave. Motion failed. Voting “no” –  all members 
of the governing body. 
 
[CA]  Consideration of Bid #S -1-27 for a Contract between the City of Cheyenne and STC 
Construction Co., Inc. for the Cahill and Lions Park Pavement Restoration project (General Fund) 
– referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Motorola Solutions / 
Absolute Solutions, Inc. for the purchase of Motorola portable, mobile, and base station radios for 
the Animal Control Division (General Fund Reserves) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
[CA]  Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne and Motorola Solutions / 
Bearcom for the purchase of Motorola mobile radios for the Cheyenne Police Department (2023 -
2026 Optional 1% Sales Tax Fund) – referred to Finance Committee. 
 
 No comments were made on the Voucher Report as presented. 
  
 No comments were made on the Revenue Report as presented. 
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 14, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic 
conference meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute §15-1-402 exist for about 162.42 acres of land locate d west of South Greeley 
Highway, south of West College Drive, and southwest of and adjacent to the intersection of Apple 
Street and York Avenue.  
 
 Announcement was made of a Public Hearing to be held September 14, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. 
in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via electronic 
conference meeting, to determine whether compliance of annexation conditions required by 
Wyoming Statute §15- 1-402 exist for about 652.67 acres of land locate d south of Interstate 80, 
southeast of Otto Road, and west of Interstate 25.  
 
 Announcement was made that a Calcutta benefitting Children’s Western Wish Foundation 
will be held on Sunday, September 27, 2026 at 3:00 p.m., at Frontier Park, Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
in conjunction with the 2026 Indian Relay Championship of Champions (10% of proceeds go to 
bona fide charity).  
 
 
 
 
 
 Announcement was made that due to City offices being closed for the Labor Day holiday 
on Monday, September 7, 2026, regularly scheduled City Council Committee meetings will 
instead be held in City Council Chambers, 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and via 
electronic conf erence meeting as follows: Public Services Committee will meet Tuesday, 
September 8, 2026 at Noon and Finance Committee will meet Wednesday, September 9, 2026 at 
Noon.  
 
 Announcement that the following ordinances that were postponed in April 2026 will return 
to the Public Services Committee on Tuesday, September 8, 2026 for consideration: 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Annexing to the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, land west of 
Roundtop Road and adjacent to Happy Jack Road. 
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of Cheyenne, 
establishing the zoning classification of AG – Agricultural and P – Public for land annexed to the 
City of Cheyenne located west of Roundtop Road and adjacent to Happy Jack Road.  
ORDINANCE – 2nd READING – Amending the Official Zoning Map of the City of Cheyenne, 
changing the zoning classification for land located west of Roundtop Road and adjacent to Happy 
Jack Road from AG – Agricultural to BP – Business Park.  
Following Committee review, the ordinances will be on the September 14, 2026 City Council 
agenda. 
 
The following members of the governing body made comments under Other Business:  
Mayor Collins, Mr. Laybourn and Mr. Wolfe.  
 
There being no further business to come before the governing body, the meeting was 
officially adjourned at 6:57 p.m.    
  
 
        Submitted by, 
 
              
        Kylie Soden, 
        City Clerk 
 
This notice is available in alternative, accessible formats upon request. 
 
Published: Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
  September 2, 2026 