PLANNING &  
DEVELOPMENT  
2101 O’Neil Avenue 
Cheyenne, WY 82001 
(307) 637-6282 
cheyennecity.org 
 
MEMO 
 
To: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
From: Charles W. Bloom, AICP, Planning and Development Director  
Subject: A resolution adopting a Comprehensive Climate Action Plan in accordance with the 
Environmental Protection Agency’s Climate Pollution Reduction Planning Grant 
awarded to the City. 
Date: September 14, 2026 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________  
 
Background:  
 
This resolution formally adopts "Prospering Together: Laramie County’s Path to a Sustainable 
Future" as the City of Cheyenne’s Comprehensive Climate Action Plan (CCAP) pursuant to the 
$1,000,000 EPA Climate Pollution Reduction Grant accepted under Resolution No. 6388 which 
was adopted on February 26, 2024.  
 
This plan was developed in partnership with Lotus Engineering & Sustainability, LLC , and was 
previously managed by the City’s prior Economic Resource Administrator. While the plan 
serves as a foundational policy guide, its adoption does not commit the City to any individual 
measure, leaving specific future implementation actions to be evaluated separately. Adoption 
of this plan gives the City a leg up on future funding opportunities for eligible projects 
related to reducing emissions and improving community resilience such as community solar, 
energy efficiency retrofits for municipal facilities, fleet electrification, active transportation 
infrastructure, and sustainable waste management initiatives.  
 
The proposed Governing Body review schedule is as follows: 
• Introduction and Referral   September 14, 2026 
• Public Services Committee   September 21, 2026 
• Final Consideration   September 28, 2026 
 
Attachments: 
1. Resolution and Plan (Exhibit A)  
RESOLUTION NO. __________ 
 
ENTITLED: "A RESOLUTION ADOPTIN G A COMPREHENSIVE CLIMATE 
ACTION PLAN IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE ENVIRONMENTAL 
PROTECTION AGENCY ’S CLIMATE POLLUTION REDUCTION 
PLANNING GRANT AWARDED TO THE CITY." 
 
WHEREAS, on February 26, 2024, the Governing Body for the City of Cheyenne  
adopted Resolution No. 6388, accepting an Environmental Protection Agency Climate 
Pollution Reduction Grants (CPRG) Program planning grant in the amount of one million 
dollars ($1,000,000.00) to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other harmful air pollution;  
 
WHEREAS, CPRG planning grant recipients can utilize funding to design climate 
action plans that incorporate a variety of measures to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
across six key sectors , including electricity generation,  industry, transportation, buildings, 
agriculture/natural and working lands, and waste management;  
 
WHEREAS, as a condition of the Phase 1 CPRG  Program planning grant, the City of 
Cheyenne timely submitted a Priority Climate Action Plan (PCAP) to the EPA;  
 
WHEREAS, the CPRG planning grant requires the City of Cheyenne to prepare and 
submit a Comprehensive Climate Action Plan (CCAP) and a subsequent Status Report 
evaluating the progress and implementation of the CCAP;  
 
WHEREAS, on August 26, 2024, the City of Cheyenne  entered into a Professional 
Services Agreement, Contract No. 8036, with Lotus Engineering & Sustainability, LLC  (the 
“Consultant”) for preparation of a CCAP; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Consultant, with the assistance of the City and community partners , 
prepared “Prospering Together: Laramie County’s Path to a Sustainable Future ,” a CCAP, 
which is attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE 
CITY OF CHEYENNE, WYOMING, that the Governing Body hereby adopt s “Prospering 
Together: Laramie County’s Path to a Sustainable Future,” a Comprehensive Climate Action 
Plan, attached hereto as Exhibit A.    
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the CCAP shall serve as a policy guide for the 
City’s efforts to promote efficient use of resources, support sustainable practices, and enhance 
community resilience. Adoption of the CCAP does not commit the City to implement any 
specific measure or strategy identified within the CCAP , and a ny future actions will be 
considered separately as appropriate; 
 
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the City shall submit a Status Report as required 
by the Environmental Protection Agency Climate Pollution Reduction Grants (CPRG) 
Program planning grant. 
 
 
PRESENTED, READ AND ADOPTED THIS _______ DAY OF __________________, 
2026. 
 
 
__________________________________________  
Patrick Collins, Mayor 
 
(SEAL)  
 
 
ATTEST:  
 
____________________________________  
Kylie Soden, City Clerk 
 
Climate Action Plan
Cheyenne MSA

2
Prospering Together: Laramie 
County’s Path to a Sustainable Future 
On behalf of all cities within Laramie County, Wyoming: 
The Prospering Together Plan was written in 2026 
to create a healthy and prosperous community that 
embraces our unique way of life through efﬁ cient 
utilization of resources, environmental stewardship, 
and collective action.
Prepared For:
The Climate Pollution Reduction Grant Program 
State and Local Climate and Energy Program 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  
Prepared By:
City of Cheyenne 
Lotus Engineering and Sustainability, LLC 
With contribution and review by U.S. EPA
uture 
026 
y that 
ent 
dship, 

Table of contents
3
1. Introduction/Executive Summary ..................................................................................5
1.1. Climate Pollution Reduction Grant Overview ........................................................................................................6
1.2. Climate Change: What is it?  .............................................................................................................................................7
1.3. Community Values Connected to Climate Pollution Reduction .............................................................8
1.4. Comprehensive Climate Action Plan Purpose and Scope  .........................................................................8
2. Greenhouse Gas Inventory   ............................................................................................11
2.1. Inventory Trends and Analysis   ...................................................................................................... 12
2.2. Near-Term and Long-Term GHG Reduction Targets   ...................................................16
3. Climate Pollution Reduction Measures ......................................................................19
3.1. Energy and Buildings  ..........................................................................................................................19
Letter on Data Centers ................................................................................................................................. 31
3.2. Transportation  ........................................................................................................................................ 32
3.3. Waste Management and Water  ..................................................................................................41
3.4. Natural and Working Lands  ......................................................................................................... 48
3.5 Workforce Planning  ............................................................................................................................. 55
4. Beneﬁ ts Analysis ..............................................................................................................60
4.1 Household Efﬁ ciency, Electriﬁ cation, and Rooftop Solar  ............................................61
4.2 Commercial Efﬁ ciency, Electriﬁ cation, and Rooftop Solar  ........................................61
4.3 Transportation  ..........................................................................................................................................61
4.4 Municipal Support  ...............................................................................................................................62
5. Key Takeaways ................................................................................................................... 66
Appendix A: Stakeholder Engagement Activities  .......................................................................66
Appendix B: Glossary  .......................................................................................................................................67
Appendix C: Workforce Analysis  ..............................................................................................................69
Appendix D: Inventory and Inventory Methodology....................................................................87
Appendix E: BAU Modeling Methodologies......................................................................................127
1. Introduction/Executive Summary
In This Chapter
 1.1 Climate Pollution Reduction 
Grant Overview
 1.2 Climate Change: What is it? 
 1.3 Community Values Connected 
to Climate Pollution Reduction
 1.4 Comprehensive Climate Ac-
tion Plan Purpose and Scope

5
1. Introduction/Executive Summary
This CCAP is organized into 6 
sections: 
Introduction/ Executive 
Summary 
Climate Pollution 
Inventory 
Quantiﬁ ed Climate 
Pollution Reduction 
Measures 
Workforce Planning 
Analysis 
Beneﬁ ts Analysis
Stakeholder 
Engagement Activities
The Cheyenne Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) received a $1 million 
planning grant (assistance agreement #5D - 00I10301-0) to develop a 
climate action plan to reduce climate pollution emissions as part of 
the Climate Pollution Reduction Grants (CPRG) program, an initiative 
of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The City of Cheyenne 
spearheaded climate action planning efforts on behalf of all cities within 
Laramie County, Wyoming (the MSA). 
This Comprehensive Climate Action Plan (CCAP) is the second deliverable 
for the Climate Pollution Reduction Grants program after the Priority 
Climate Action Plan (PCAP). This plan includes a greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions inventory, quantiﬁ ed climate pollution reduction measures, 
and a workforce planning analysis.  
At its core, the Cheyenne MSA Comprehensive Climate Action Plan 
outlines investments in policies, practices, and technologies that 
reduce greenhouse gas and other pollution emissions, create high-
quality jobs, spur economic growth, and enhance the quality of 
life for all communities and residents of Laramie County. The plan 
prioritizes equitable access to beneﬁ  ts and ensures that vulnerable 
communities receive a fair share of the opportunities arising from 
investment. The ﬂ exible strategies in the plan can be customized by the 
local communities to meet their speciﬁ c needs and priorities, while 
encouraging local decision-makers to pursue initiatives that will beneﬁ t 
the entire planning area.  
The contents of this document do not necessarily reﬂ ect the views and 
policies of the EPA, nor does the EPA or the City of Cheyenne endorse 
trade names or recommend the use of commercial products mentioned 
in this document. 
Q
C
I
anized into 6 
tion/Executive

6
1.1. Climate Pollution Reduction Grant Overview
Authorized under Section 60114 of the Inﬂ ation Reduction Act and 
administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Climate 
Pollution Reduction Grants program provides $5 billion in grants to states, 
local governments, tribes, and territories to develop and implement 
ambitious plans to reduce climate and other harmful air pollution. The ﬁ rst 
phase of the program provides $250 million in noncompetitive planning 
grants to every state and the largest census-designated metropolitan 
statistical areas. The second phase designates approximately $4.6 billion 
in funding for competitive implementation grants. Through the program, 
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency seeks to achieve three broad 
objectives:  
1. Tackle climate pollution while supporting the creation of good jobs
and lowering energy costs for families.
2. Accelerate work to address environmental injustices and empower
community-driven solutions in overburdened neighborhoods.
3. Deliver cleaner air by reducing harmful air pollution in places where
people live, work, play, and go to school.
Through the Climate Pollution Reduction Grants program, the Cheyenne 
MSA was allocated a $1 million planning grant to develop a climate action 
plan in coordination with local stakeholders throughout the region. U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency requirements dictate that the planning 
grant funds be designated for the completion of the following products:  
• Priority Climate Action Plan, due March 1, 2024.
• Comprehensive Climate Action Plan, due December 1, 2025.
• Status Report, due at the close of the 4-year grant period, due Aug. 1,
2027.
Participation in the CPRG program will allow the Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Service Area to assess, develop, and implement plans for reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions and other harmful air pollution through policy, 
collaboration, and innovation in an equitable, just, and sustainable way. 
Cover of the Greater Cheyenne MSA Priority 
Climate Action Plan (PCAP) from 2024.
7
1.2. Climate Change: What is it? 
Climate change refers to the long-term shifts in the Earth’s temperature, precipitation patterns, and other 
atmospheric conditions. These processes are mainly driven by human activities, including the burning of fossil fuels, 
deforestation, and industrial processes.1
Human activities leading to detrimental climate change impacts produce greenhouse gas emissions. Greenhouse gases 
(GHGs) trap heat in the atmosphere, leading to a rise in Earth’s temperature and are signiﬁ cant contributors to climate 
pollution. Greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), and nitrous oxide (N2O), have different 
effects on the planet’s warming.2 The higher the GHG’s ability to absorb energy is, the more it’s able to warm the 
atmosphere over time. Conversely, the longer a GHG remains in the atmosphere, the longer it can exert warming effects. 
Increasing amounts of GHG emissions creates an imbalance in the atmosphere, intensifying its harmful effects to the 
Earth’s climate. Climate change is a recurring aspect of our lives, disproportionately impacting vulnerable communities. 
Simultaneously, the beneﬁ ts of climate action are increasingly clear in expanding green jobs, cleaner air, safer homes, 
and better mobility. Preparing, and responding, to the risks of climate change signiﬁ es improvements to the daily lives 
of residents across the Cheyenne MSA region and a future that is resilient, equitable, and healthy. 
1 NASA. (2024, October 21). What Is Climate Change? Science.nasa.gov; NASA. https://science.nasa.gov/climate-change/what-is-climate-change/
2 United States Environmental Protection Agency. (2025, January 16). Overview of Greenhouse Gases. US EPA. https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/overview-greenhouse-gases 
Smoke plumes from a grass ﬁ re near Cheyenne 
in 2024.
SmSmSmSmSSokokokokokokokokokkokkkkkokkkkkkkkkkeeee e e e e el plplplplllumummmuesesesesesseefffroroorormmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmma a aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaa aaagrgrgrgrgrggrgrgrrr grgrggrgrgrr grggggggasasaasasasasasasaaasaaasasasasasasss asssssssssssss s sﬁﬁﬁ  ﬁ  ﬁ  ﬁﬁﬁ  ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ  rererererererrrrnnnnnnnnnnneaeaeaeaeaeaeaeaeaearrrrrrr rrr ChChCChChCCChChChChChChhChCCeeeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyyenenenenenennenneneee 
inininininin22222222222020202020202022024444.444.4.4
8
1.3. Community Values Connected to Climate Pollution Reduction
The City of Cheyenne staff identiﬁ ed the following community values/priorities:  
• Transportation and connectivity.  
• Economic opportunity and development.  
• Wildlife and water conservation.  
• Air quality.  
• Access to nature.  
• Protecting rural landscapes.  
Across the state, residents ranked the values of recreation, aesthetics, community, and biodiversity most highly.3
1.4. Comprehensive Climate Action Plan Purpose and Scope 
The Comprehensive Climate Action Plan is a list of near and long-term measures to reduce climate pollution, as 
well as an analysis of emissions reductions that would be achieved through implementation. 
3 Public Values and Preferences Relating to Wyoming’s Energy Future
Over 20 stakeholders 
from community groups, 
and local or state 
agencies attended the 
March 2025 Information 
Session and shared these 
core values for Cheyenne 
and Laramie County: 
“FREEDOM”
“TOUGH”
“INDEPENDENCE”
“WILDLIFE”
“FAMILY FRIENDLY”
9
The plan includes:  
• A greenhouse gas inventory to quantify and track the amount of greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide, methane, 
nitrous oxide) released into the atmosphere from human activities in the planning area. 
• A list of quantiﬁ ed climate pollution reduction measures that achieve signiﬁ cant greenhouse gas reductions 
while considering other relevant planning goals. 
• A beneﬁ ts analysis that assesses how the greenhouse gas reduction measures positively impact the region’s 
communities, including, but not limited to, co-pollutant emissions reductions, increased climate resilience, 
improved access to services and amenities, jobs created, workforce development and reduced costs from energy 
efﬁ ciency improvements
• A workforce planning analysis that assesses anticipated workforce shortages, identifying possible solutions and 
identifying funding and programs that can support current and future workforce needs.
The “Howdy from Cheyenne” rural by Jordan Dean, 
located at Lincoln and Pioneer.
2. Greenhouse Gas Inventory
In This Chapter
 2.1 Inventory Trends and Analysis
2.2 Near-Term and Long-Term GHG 
Reduction Targets

11
2. Greenhouse 
Gas Inventory  
A greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
inventory is a historical accounting 
method that measures the amount 
of human-caused greenhouse 
gases emitted or removed from 
the atmosphere. GHG inventories 
are within a predeﬁ ned time frame, 
like a certain ﬁ scal or calendar year, 
and across speciﬁ c sectors. The GHG 
inventory covered in this section 
complies with the Global Protocol for 
Community-scale Greenhouse Gas 
Emission Inventories. The inventory 
includes a blend of measured and 
estimated activity data for the 
calendar year 2023 for the MSA. 
Staff calculated emissions for the 
emissions sectors highlighted in the 
table to the right. The GHGs included 
in the inventory cover carbon dioxide 
(CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide 
(N2O) and hydroﬂ uorocarbons 
(HFC-134a). This section of the plan 
includes an overview of sources, 
methodology, and results from the 
inventory. 
Inventory Sector Description
Building Energy
Electricity generation and consumption: Black Hills 
Energy and Tri-State Generation and Transmission 
Association.  
Staff also collected and estimated usage data for 
natural gas, stationary diesel, propane, and wood. 
Transportation
Gas and diesel powered on-road vehicles, electric 
vehicles, gas-powered public transit systems, jet fuel 
and aviation gas for airplanes, and fuel usage for off-
road vehicles and equipment. 
Waste Landﬁ lled waste emissions.
Wastewater 
Treatment
Fugitive and process emissions from wastewater 
treatment and emissions from septic tanks.
Industrial Processes 
& Product Use
Emissions from ammonia manufacturing and nitric 
acid production from Cheyenne-based operations.
Agriculture & 
Forestry
Livestock, urea fertilization and manure, soil fertilizer 
and chemicals. It also includes emissions and 
removals from forests and urban forests.
Table 1. Greenhouse Gas Inventory sectors and descriptions.
12
2.1. Inventory Trends and Analysis  
The Cheyenne MSA region’s greenhouse gas emissions totaled 2,879,148 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(mt CO2e) in 2023. This value includes the total net carbon removed from the atmosphere by trees and forests. To put 
the total emissions perspective, the amount of emissions is comparable to the electricity used by over 600,000 homes 
in a year or the CO2 released from driving a gasoline powered passenger vehicle for more than 7 billion miles.1 Building 
energy use makes up over half of the MSA’s emissions, followed by transportation, agriculture & forestry, industrial 
processes & product use (IPPU), waste, and wastewater treatment. With a population of approximately 100,984 in 
2023, the emissions per capita of Cheyenne MSA is 28.5 mt CO2e.  
Greenhouse gas emissions are further categorized into three scopes (scope 1, 2, and 3). Scopes organize emissions 
sources by a community’s boundary and areas of control. This allows for a deeper understanding of speciﬁ c emissions 
and pinpoints the greatest emission reduction opportunities.2 Scope 1 emissions come from sources occurring within 
a community’s boundary, such as space and water heating fuel use in homes and businesses. Scope 2 emissions are 
indirect and result from the electricity that is consumed within the community boundary. Scope 3 emissions are all 
1 https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator#results
2 https://www.nationalgrid.com/stories/energy-explained/what-are-scope-1-2-3-carbon-emissions
Cheyenne’s MSA scope breakdown (left) 
reveals that Scope 1 constitutes the largest 
portion at 1,749,905 (61%). Scope 2 accounts 
for 1,073,423 (37%), while Scope 3 represents 
the smallest share of emissions at 55,820 
(2%).  
Figure 1. GHG Emissions in the Cheyenne MSA broken out by Scope.
13
other emissions that occur outside a community’s boundary as a result of activities occurring within the community’s 
boundary (i.e., waste generated in homes and businesses disposed of at a landﬁ ll in a neighboring community.3
2.1.1. Building Energy 
Building energy use contributed 63% of the total emissions, or 1,803,426 mt CO2e. The largest portion of this energy 
consumption comes from building electricity use at 37%. Natural gas usage in buildings follows next at 19%. Fugitive 
emissions from the local natural gas distribution system make up 5%, electricity transmission and distribution losses 
(power source to consumer) makes up 2%, while stationary diesel, propane, and wood make up less than 1%.  
2.1.2. Transportation 
In the transportation sector, on-road vehicles with internal combustion engines have the highest share of emissions at 
12% of total MSA emissions. The next largest transportation related emissions source are railways, which generated 
3% of emissions, and off-road vehicle fuel use (ATVs, UTVs, 4x4, snowmobiles, etc.) which accounts for 2%. Other sources 
include: electric vehicles, electric vehicle transmission and distribution losses, public transit, public transit electricity use, 
and local and itinerant aviation. These sources accounted for less than 1% of total emissions.  
3 https://www.nationalgrid.com/stories/energy-explained/what-are-scope-1-2-3-carbon-emissions
Figure 2. GHG Emissions (mt-CO2e) in 
the Cheyenne MSA broken out by Sector.

14
2.1.3. Remaining Sectors 
In total, agriculture, forestry, and other land uses contributed 8% of the total emissions, or 240,861 mt CO2e with 
livestock providing 5% and fertilized farm soils 3%. Within the analysis, removals from forestry and urban trees were 
included. The net GHG ﬂ ux was positive, due to tree canopy loss. 
Industrial processes and product use (IPPU) were responsible for 8% of the total MSA emissions, with industrial 
processes within the boundary accounting for 99% and refrigerant leakage responsible for 1% of the IPPU sector 
emissions.  
Emissions from waste and wastewater treatment plants accounted for 3% of the total emissions, with landﬁ lled waste 
contributing to 96% of the total waste sector emissions due to the presence of the Cheyenne Landﬁ ll in the MSA 
boundary. 
2.1.4. Statewide Resource Conservation Efforts 
Wyoming is a major producer of coal, natural gas, and crude oil. Wyoming has been the top coal-producing state 
since the mid 1980s, responsible for approximately 40% of all coal mined in the United States in 2024.4
4 https://www.eia.gov/state/?sid=WY
A herd of steer, which expel methane gas, in a ready-to-be-grazed pasture.

15
Based out of Casper, the Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS), 
provides programs and services that help landowners and ranchers 
plan and implement voluntary conservation activities throughout 
Wyoming.5 The NRCS, along with the Wyoming Natural Resource Trust, 
Conservation Fund, and the United States Department of Agriculture 
(USDA), have developed different programs with conservation in mind. 
These programs invest into local communities to ensure working lands 
continue their operations, boost rural economies, increase agricultural 
competitiveness, and improve soil health and quality of life.6, 7
Utility companies, such as Rocky Mountain Power and Black Hills Energy, 
are also making sustainable strides to the environment and customers. 
These companies offer consumer rebates and incentives for batteries, 
heating and cooling, smart accessories, heat pumps, thermostats, 
switches, plugs, etc.8, 9
2.1.5. State of Wyoming GHG Inventory  
Wyoming demonstrates a promising direction in managing their GHG 
emissions. While a formal statewide GHG inventory has not yet been 
conducted, the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) 
actively monitors industrial emissions from major and minor industries.10
Additionally, data from the US Environmental Protection Agency showed 
an emissions reduction of over 5 million metric tons in Wyoming’s 
total consumption-based (goods and services) GHG emissions 
between 2012 and 2019.11 This momentum provides a foundation for 
future sustainability and conservation efforts and continued and new 
emission reduction actions. 
5 https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/contact/state-ofﬁ ce-contacts/wyoming-state-ofﬁ ce
6 https://wwnrt.wyo.gov/projects/project-types
7 https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/state-ofﬁ ces/wyoming
8 https://www.blackhillsenergy.com/efﬁ ciency-and-savings/residential-rebates/cheyenne-electric-lara-
mie-county-residential-rebates
9 https://www.rockymountainpower.net/savings-energy-choices/business/wattsmart-efﬁ ciency-incen-
tives-wyoming/wy-incentive-lists.html
10 https://deq.wyoming.gov/aqd/emissions-inventories/
11 https://pasteur.epa.gov/uploads/10.23719/1531923/WY.html
Equivalency data calculated using https://www.epa.
gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator

1616
2.2. Near-Term and Long-Term GHG 
Reduction Targets  
During the 2024 Wyoming legislative session, several 
conservation-focused house bills were passed. Key outcomes 
include the sale of the Kelly Parcel, containing crucial 
big game habitat and migration routes, to Grand Teton 
National Park. Approximately $9 million was allocated for 
the removal of non-native, invasive grasses. Legislation 
also authorized the Wyoming Wildlife Trust to allocate 
matching funds for conservation projects including habitat 
enhancement for various big game species and a project on 
ﬁ sh passages.12
In addition to Wyoming’s state level actions, in 2020, the 
Laramie City Council adopted a goal to achieve net-
zero carbon emissions by 2050.13 Although Cheyenne 
currently lacks overarching sustainability goals, the city 
and its surrounding region is advancing initiatives outlined 
in the previous and current Priority Climate Action Plan 
(PCAP)/ Comprehensive Climate Action Plan (CCAP). These 
initiatives include residential and commercial building 
electriﬁ cation, vehicles miles traveled (VMT) reduction, 
electric vehicle (EV) adoption, etc. Furthermore, within 
the City of Cheyenne, the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens has 
been implementing sustainable measures, including on-site 
solar and wind turbines, and water conservation, since 1977.14
These local efforts and initiatives demonstrate Cheyenne 
MSA’s commitment to environmental stewardship and 
climate action.  
12 https://www.trcp.org/2024/03/25/wyoming-conservation-wins-from-the-2024-legislative-
session/
13 https://www.cityoﬂ aramie.org/1385/Emissions-Goals
14 https://www.botanic.org/about/sustainability/
Cheyenne residents en-
joying a restaurant patio 
after participating in 
Bike to Work Day.
17
2.2.1. Business-as-usual Projections  
The business-as-usual scenario (BAU) illustrates what would happen if Cheyenne MSA did not make any changes 
in policies and/or investments to reduce emissions. This would be considered as a “worse-case scenario” related 
to the amount of intentional intervention and illustrates the region's energy and buildings, on-road transportation, 
workforce, waste management and water, and natural and working lands emissions in 2050 if there is no additional 
regional climate pollution reduction. 
Important note:  At the 
time of the Greenhouse 
Gas Inventory and BAU 
projections, the actual 
and projected energy 
use from Data Centers 
in the region were not 
calculated due to a lack 
of data. 
Figure 3. GHG Emissions (mt-CO2e) 
projections for the Cheyenne MSA 
through 2050.
3. Quantiﬁ  ed Climate Pollution
Reduction Measures
In This Chapter
 3.1 Energy and Buildings
3.2 Transportation
3.3 Waste Management and Water
3.4 Natural and Working Lands
 3.5 Workforce Planning

19
3. Climate Pollution
Reduction Measures
3.1. Energy and Buildings 
3.1.1. Introduction 
The energy and buildings sector covers 
emissions from electricity, natural gas, 
stationary diesel, and wood use. This 
sector also includes natural gas fugitive 
emissions, which are natural gas leaks 
that occur during production, storage, and 
transportation, and losses from energy 
transmission and distribution, which 
happens when electricity is lost as it is 
transported from power plants to homes 
and businesses.  
Buildings energy use is the largest 
source of emissions in the MSA region, 
accounting for roughly 62% of total 
emissions. Tackling emissions in this area 
is important, not only for the environment 
and wildlife, but helps residents and 
businesses save money on energy bills, 
while also building a more resilient 
energy grid. The goals and measures for 
this sector focus on cutting emissions 
while supporting the region's economic 
growth and stability. 
Figure 4. Total greenhouse gas missions reductions expected by 2050 from all measures in 
Chapter 3, broken down by sector.

20
Goals:
• Selectively expand clean energy development (i.e., solar, geothermal,
wind, nuclear) to diversify the region’s economy and reduce
emissions.
• Increase education, incentives, access to, and adoption of energy
efﬁ ciency measures to reduce ongoing energy bills.
• Mitigate emissions of businesses.
3.1.2. Energy and Buildings Measures 
Measure 1: Increase energy efﬁ  ciency and electriﬁ cation in residential 
buildings. 
An easy way to save money on energy and reduce emissions from 
the residential energy use sector is by using less energy overall.
This measure aims to reduce energy use in the residential buildings 
sector. One way to do that is by weatherizing residential homes and 
apartments; this can be done through additional insulation, thicker 
windows, sealing cracks, and more. Also, electric appliances like heat 
pumps and heat pump water heaters, are proven to be more efﬁ cient
at using energy than natural gas powered appliances. Heat pumps also 
come with the added beneﬁ t of providing air conditioning in addition 
to heating. Strategies under this measure include taking advantage of 
existing rebate and incentive programs, community education, and 
continued updates to building energy and construction codes.  
Energy and Buildings Measure 1 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
The Wyoming State Capitol Building, decked out in red, 
white, and blue ahead of America’s 250th Indepen-
dence Day.

21
Strategies: 
• Adopt the latest building energy codes.
• Convene a code panel to review the latest version of the
International Energy Conservation Code.
• Provide education to the public, builders, contractors, engineers,
and architects to help them understand code changes.
• Incentivize energy efﬁ cient upgrades and all-electric equipment in
residential buildings.
• Promote existing rebate programs through utilities and the
state and provide additional incentives for energy efﬁ ciency and
electriﬁ cation to the extent allowed under applicable laws to help
ﬁ ll gaps.
• Lower the cost of building permits for buildings that implement
energy efﬁ ciency measures above and beyond what the code
requires.
• Provide grant funding to encourage landlords to implement
energy efﬁ ciency measures.
• Establish the administrative framework and partnerships
necessary to launch the PACE program that was authorized
through resolution 6135 on April 2, 2021.
• Explore implementing an energy efﬁ ciency pilot program in
South Cheyenne.
• Provide education on energy-efﬁ cient appliances and how they can
lower home energy bills.
• Encourage contractors
• and builders to educate themselves on residential energy code
compliance.
• Provide educational materials for residents on energy efﬁ ciency
measures and their costs and beneﬁ  ts, using effective messaging
that calls on people's motivation around environmental
stewardship.
An older home equipped with an efﬁ cient 
electric heat pump.
22
Strategies Continued:
• Support energy efﬁ ciency
projects in low-income and
affordable housing.
• Leverage the Wyoming
Community Development
Authority (WCDA) Spruce Up
Program.
• Expand weatherization
retroﬁ ts across the region.
Implementation Timelines and 
Milestones: 
• Code panel review is completed.
• Latest building energy codes are
adopted.
Metrics for Tracking Progress:  
• Change in power bills or
electricity rates.
• Energy usage before and after
upgrades.
• Participation in utility energy
efﬁ ciency rebate programs.
• Number of weatherization
retroﬁ ts in the region.
• Usage rate of incentives.
• Quantiﬁ ed GHG Emission
Reduction
Figure 5. Cumulative greenhouse gas emissions reduction from Energy and Buildings Measure 1 through 
2050. Scenario: 75% improvement in new home efﬁ ciency, 50% improvement in existing home efﬁ ciency, 
50% heating equipment replaced with electric by 2040.
Figure 6. Co-pollutant emissions reductions from Energy and Buildings Measure 1 through 2050.

23
Measure 2: Increase energy efﬁ  ciency and electriﬁ cation in commercial 
and industrial buildings. 
Similar to the residential space, a simple way for industries and 
companies to save money on energy is to use less. This measure aims to 
increase energy efﬁ  ciency and electriﬁ  cation in commercial and industrial 
buildings. Energy efﬁ ciency efforts can be supported through upgrading 
to LED lighting, occupancy lighting sensors, more insulation in walls 
and roofs, and energy efﬁ cient windows. Strategies under this measure 
include incentivizing and educating energy efﬁ cient appliances and 
equipment and adopting the latest energy codes.
Strategies:
• Adopt the latest building energy codes pursuant to Wyoming Statute
§ 35-9-121(a)(ii)  .
• Pursue grants to achieve LEED certiﬁ cation in new public buildings.
• Incentivize energy efﬁ  cient upgrades and all-electric equipment to the
extent allowed under applicable laws.
• Provide tax credits for businesses to implement energy efﬁ ciency
and electriﬁ cation.
• Provide education on energy-efﬁ cient measures to help businesses
learn about and navigate opportunities.
• Showcase projects that have been completed, such as energy
efﬁ ciency and renewable energy projects at agricultural producers
and rural small businesses funded through the Rural Energy for
America Program.
• Encourage contractors and builders to educate themselves on
commercial energy code compliance.
Energy and Buildings Measure 3 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
The Wyoming Capitol building in Cheyenne, framed 
by snowy branches.
ranches.
24
Implementation Timelines and 
Milestones: 
• Tax credits are created.
• Project showcases are hosted.
Metrics for Tracking Progress: 
• Number of tax credits provided.
• Number of project showcases
hosted.
• Engagement methods, like
number of builders educated,
number of residents reached via
educational campaigns, etc.
Figure 7. Cumulative greenhouse gas emissions reduction from Energy and Buildings Measure 2 through 
2050. Scenario: 75% improvement in new commercial efﬁ  ciency by 2050, 25% improvement in existing com-
mercial efﬁ ciency by 2040, 100% heating equipment replaced with electric by 2050

25
Measure 3: Encourage adoption of alternative energy. 
Wyoming is the nation’s leading energy producer, yet the state heavily relies on fossil fuels. Expanding wind, 
solar, and other alternative energy technologies will diversify the Cheyenne region’s energy portfolio, while reducing 
GHG emissions. This measure aims to increase adoption, awareness, and education of alternative energy sources. 
By integrating alternative energy, industries can support grid resilience and the region can attract new industries 
and businesses. Strategies under this measure include education and outreach for residents on alternative energy 
resources. This energy transition positions Wyoming to continue leading in energy production, while contributing 
to the state’s sustainability goals.  
Energy and Buildings Measure 3 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
See more details in 
Appendix C: Workforce 
Analysis.
uels.
 Expandidididddngggggggwwwwwwinininininind,d,d,d,d,d,
portfolio, whhhhhhhhile rerererereredudududududucicicicicicicngngngngngng  
ative energy yysoooososoururururururcececececececs.s.s.s.s.s. 
ttract new indndddusuuutries 
on alternative enenennnnnnererererererereeregygygygygygygygygyy  
ction, while conttttriririiiririrrrrbubububbbbbtititititttingngnggggg
26
Strategies:
• Encourage the adoption of
clean energy through leading by
example at municipal facilities.
• Continue piloting municipal
clean energy projects to
reduce operating costs, such
as solar parking lots, wind
turbines, or a project at the
landﬁ ll.
• Showcase completed projects
such as solar, geothermal and
hydroelectric projects at public
facilities.
• Expand biogas capture at the
wastewater treatment facility
so it can be used for fuel or
electricity production.
• Collaborate with Laramie
County and the State to
showcase wins from energy
efﬁ ciency programs.
Figure 8. Cumulative greenhouse gas emissions reduction from Energy and Buildings Measure 3 
through 2050. Scenario: Target of 50% installed solar capacity by 2050.
Figure 9. Co-pollutant emissions reductions from Energy and Buildings Measure 3 through 2050.
27
Strategies Continued:
• Educate and empower residents and businesses to implement clean
energy projects.
• Provide educational programs demonstrating new technologies
like solar and battery storage at the Children's Museum or a similar
business to encourage solar on homes.
• Provide information on net metering to remove concerns and
uncertainty relating to solar.
• Provide education on renewable energy systems, especially
ground-mounted home solar, and its lifecycle costs and beneﬁ ts.
• Explore innovative projects to maintain grid reliability.
• Encourage data centers to create on-site renewable energy.
• Implement land use policies to regulate data centers, such as co-
locating data centers near more nimble energy users that can
quickly scale their energy use up or down.
• Explore the feasibility of microgrids for rural areas.
Implementation Timelines and Milestones:
• Municipal pilot projects are completed.
• Educational programs and materials are created.
• Microgrid research is completed.
• Land use policies have been implemented
Metrics for Tracking Progress:  
• Amount of renewable energy generation on public facilities.
• Operating costs reduced from alternative energy projects.
• Energy bill savings.
• Amount of on-site renewable energy produced at data centers.
• Number of data centers using on-site renewables.
Historic buildings on W Lincoln Way in 
downtown Cheyenne. This street hosts 
many successful local businesses.
28
Strategies:
• Address the impacts from retroﬁ ts, new construction, and demolition of buildings.
• Right-size the use of space when retroﬁ tting or repurposing existing buildings.
• Explore different funding opportunities or apply building permit fee reduction incentives, or similar, to preserve
or redevelop historical buildings in a sustainable way.
• Explore ways to reduce the costs of adaptive reuse and demolition requirements.
• Implement a construction & demolition program that requires the reuse and recycling of building materials.
• Encourage building features that provide environmental beneﬁ ts.
• Require new developments to reﬂ ect the natural land that exists in the region.
• Promote green roofs on large new developments, especially downtown.
• Adopt dark sky building requirements to limit light pollution.
• Continue to limit light pollution in city parks and facilities through strategic lighting design.
• Map migratory bird routes to increase bird window safety for public buildings and data centers.
Measure 4: Implement policies and programs that reduce the overall impact of buildings.   
Generally, the built environment is one of the largest contributors of energy use, but has the easiest efﬁ ciency 
opportunities. By promoting high performance building standards, expanding incentives for retroﬁ ts, and improving 
energy management practices, the Cheyenne MSA can signiﬁ cantly reduce electricity and heating demands. This 
measure not only reduces long-term utility costs for residents and businesses, but also supports cleaner building 
operations. Strategies that support this measure include managing the impacts of new and existing buildings and the 
environmental building beneﬁ ts.  
Energy and Buildings Measure 4 Costs and Benﬁ ts:
design.
ta centers.
29
Implementation Timelines and Milestones:
• Construction and demolition (C&D) diversion and recycling program
is implemented.
• Dark sky friendly requirements are adopted.
• Incentivization programs are continued, created, or expanded to
promote rehabilitation of historic properties or rehabilitation of
existing structures.
Metrics for Tracking Progress:
• Permits for re-use site plans (applied and completed).
• SHPO/National Trust for Historic Preservation and National Main
Street Center have metrics and research on preservation costs and
energy savings.
• Cost reduction of adaptive reuse and demolition requirements.
• Amount of C&D materials recycled.
• Number of historical buildings preserved or redeveloped sustainably.
Emissions reductions and Co-pollutant impacts were not modeled for 
this set of strategies. 
Measure 5: Implement policies and programs that increase the 
availability of affordable housing and market rate housing.   
Affordable or low-income housing supports community resilience and 
the long-term economic health of residents. Expanding incentives for 
mixed-income developments, limiting urban sprawl, and supporting 
renovations of existing units extends housing options and reduces 
mobility and/or opportunity burdens. This measure aims to increase 
affordable and accessible housing options for residents and visitors 
throughout the Cheyenne MSA region. Expanding affordable housing 
supports a diverse workforce, strengthens the MSA’s economy, 
and ensures growth continues to be sustainable and equitable. Key 
strategies for this measure include working with local organizations to 
ensure and encourage redevelopment programs and improve and/or 
renovate aging or existing buildings.  
The Atlas Theatre, built in 1887, is one of Cheyenne’s 
many historic buildings and is on the National Registry 
of Historic Places.

30
Strategies:
• Improve the aging infrastructure
in downtown Cheyenne while
encouraging housing redevelopment
projects and incentivizing inﬁ ll growth.
• Promote the development of high-
density housing through density
bonuses or other mechanisms.
• Work with the Downtown
Development Authority on
grant programs for downtown
redevelopment projects.
• Work with the Uran Renewal
Authority for downtown
redevelopment projects.
• Partner with Habitat for Humanity,
Wyoming Housing Network, and
other housing developers.
Implementation Timelines and 
Milestones: 
• Grant programs for redevelopment
projects are created.
• Metrics for Tracking Progress
• Number and location of
redevelopment projects
implemented.
• Number of market and affordable
units added to the housing 
inventory.  
Emissions reductions and Co-pollutant 
impacts were not modeled for this set of 
strategies. 
Figure 10. Cumulative greenhouse gas emissions reduction from all Energy and Buildings Measures.
Energy and Buildings Measure 5 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
31
Letter on Data Centers
Dear Community, 
This Comprehensive Climate Action Planning process began back in late 2023, made possible by a grant from the US 
Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Climate Pollution Reduction Grant program. Using best available data from 
local, state, and federal resources, greenhouse gas emissions were calculated, following the Global Protocol for 
Community-scale Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventories. From those results, strategies were created and prioritized 
to help the Cheyenne and Laramie County region achieve sustainability goals, as vetted by City staff and the public. 
The EPA required the plan to have strategies that addressed emissions produced in the following sectors: commercial 
and residential buildings, transportation, waste and wastewater treatment, industry, electricity generation, agriculture, 
forestry, and other land uses, and natural and working lands. 
What was not included in that original community-wide greenhouse gas emissions inventory was emissions from 
planned or under-construction data centers in the region. As these facilities were not completed, actively consuming 
energy, and creating emissions, their data was not available for inclusion into the region’s baseline emissions inventory.  
The construction of data centers and permit requests to build these facilities have increased quickly across the United 
States and locally here in the Laramie County region. In fact, in 2026 alone the US is anticipated to nearly double the 
quantity of data centers, the majority of which are being proposed and built in rural areas (Pew Research). We recognize 
that these facilities can be physically large and may consume large amounts of electricity, water, and refrigerants 
to keep the servers up and running. This can lead to increased greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental 
impacts locally.  
Going forward, so long as data is made available, the region will include energy use and greenhouse gas emissions 
from data centers in the regional greenhouse gas emissions inventory. It is important to continue to track and 
understand these facilities’ impacts locally, both in creating jobs as well as their use of electricity, water, and other 
resources. This plan is meant to be a living document that can be revisited at any time to address new sources of 
emissions or environmental challenges that occur over time and to achieve the plan’s ultimate goal to create a 
healthy and prosperous community that embraces our unique way of life through efﬁ  cient utilization of resources, 
environmental stewardship, and collective action.
Sincerely,
The City of Cheyenne
32
3.2. Transportation 
3.2.1. Introduction 
Transportation is a big part of everyday life in the Cheyenne MSA region. People rely on transportation to go to work, 
school, shops, and ultimately shapes how the community functions and grows. The transportation sector is the 
second largest source of emissions in the MSA region, accounting for approximately 18% of total emissions. This 
sector includes emissions from on-road fossil fuel use, electric vehicles, electric vehicles transmission and distribution 
losses, public transit electricity use, aviation, off-road vehicles (i.e., UTVs/ATVs), and railways.  
Addressing the emissions not only helps the region reach their sustainable goals, but improves community 
health, eases trafﬁ  c congestion, and supports a connected and efﬁ cient community. The goals for this sector 
focus on having fewer vehicles on the road, creating safer places for residents to walk and bike, and providing reliable 
transportation options that connect people to the places they need or want to go.
Goals:
• Reduce cars on the road while ensuring it is safe to bike and walk.
• Remove barriers to active transportation.
• Provide easy access to transportation options that connect people from their homes to where they work, shop, etc.
3.2.2. Transportation Measures 
Measure 1: Improve the active transportation network in Cheyenne to reduce trafﬁ c-related incidents and encourage 
walking and biking.    
When communities invest in protected bike lanes and well-designed sidewalks and street crossings, they expand 
transportation opportunities and reduce the reliance on personal vehicles. This measure aims to improve the 
transportation system to increase safety. These improvements not only reduce trafﬁ  c-related accidents but also make 
travel more enjoyable for community members who depend on alternatives to vehicles for transport. By having a 
well-known active transportation system, the Cheyenne MSA connects and engages residents and visitors to promote 
healthier lifestyles and builds a community that values safety. This measure includes strategies such as expanding 
and promoting the active transportation network throughout the MSA’s region.  
Transportation Measure 1 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:

33
Strategies:
• Expand the active transportation
network.
• Prioritize the active transportation
network.
• Include bicycle facilities in road
construction and restriping
projects.
• Promote the active transportation
network so it’s more widely used.
• Increase the safety of active
transportation citywide
Implementation Timelines and 
Milestones:
• All sidewalks, bike lanes, and
Greenway segments in Cheyenne
are connected.
• Bike signage is implemented.
• All bus stops have paths and
sidewalks leading to it.
Metrics for Tracking Progress:
• Trafﬁ c incidents.
• Miles of bike routes, designated
bike lanes, and protected and
separated bike lanes added.
• Miles of multi-use pathways and
Greenway segments added.
Figure 11. Cumulative greenhouse gas emissions reduction through 2050 from Transportation Measure 1. 
Scenario: 10% of vehicle trips of 2 miles or less converted to walking/biking between by 2040
Figure 12. Cumulative co-pollutant emissions reduction through 2050 from Transportation Measure 1. 
Scenario: 10% of vehicle trips of 2 miles or less converted to walking/biking between by 2040.
34
Measure 2: Promote the adoption of alternative fuel vehicles. 
Fossil fuel powered vehicles create not only GHG emissions, but also 
pollute the local air quality via tailpipe emissions. There are increasingly 
more alternative fuels to power vehicles, which also help to improve local 
air quality through lower tailpipe emissions. This strategy aims to increase 
awareness in the Cheyenne MSA of adoption, and education around non-
fossil fuel-powered vehicles. Strategies aimed at achieving the measure 
include expanded electric vehicle charging infrastructure in the MSA as 
well as having the City lead by example.
Over the years, electric vehicles continue to grow in popularity and 
affordability, as newer models enter the market with higher driving ranges 
and lower prices. This measure aims to increase adoption, awareness, and 
education on non-fossil fuel-powered vehicles. When communities offer 
free/low-cost charging stations and incentives for new and used electric 
vehicles, they give the residents real alternatives to gas and diesel-powered 
vehicles. These steps reduce tailpipe emissions, while improving local 
air quality. Strategies that support this measure include community and 
government efforts.  
Transportation Measure 2 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
An electric vehicle fueling up at one of the many 
charging stations available in and around Cheyenne.
Strategies: 
• Increase the proportion of alternative fuel vehicles in Cheyenne’s ﬂ eet.
• Encourage the use of hybrids, compressed natural gas, or hydrogen
vehicles for the City ﬂ eet.
• Identify viable funding sources to purchase hybrids, compressed
natural gas, or hydrogen vehicles for public ﬂ eets.
• Promote the adoption of alternative fuel vehicles within the
community.
also 
asingly 
e local 
ncrease 
d non-
sure 
MSA as 
nd 
g ranges
ss, and 
ff

35
Strategies Continued:
• Install EV chargers at locations
desired by residents and
visitors in partnership with
the utility to ensure sufﬁ cient
power supply.
• Demystify EVs through public
education events such as EV
demo days.
• Install more EV chargers
outside of the City to provide
more options and reduce
range anxiety.
• Develop workforce training
programs for EVs.
Implementation Timelines and 
Milestones:
• City secures funding for and
purchases hybrids, compressed
natural gas, or hydrogen vehicles
for the City ﬂ eet.
• EV chargers at locations desired
by residents are installed.
Metrics for Tracking Progress: 
• Usage rate of EV chargers.
• EV adoption rate.
• Number of alternative fuel
vehicles in the City ﬂ eet.
Figure 12. Cumulative greenhouse gas emissions reduction through 2050 from Transportation Measure 2. 
Scenario: 100% of light-duty vehicles converted to alternative fuel vehicles by 2050.
Figure 13. Cumulative co-pollutant emissions reduction through 2050 from Transportation Measure 2. 
Scenario: 100% of light-duty vehicles converted to alternative fuel vehicles by 2050.
36
Measure 3: Increase connectivity across the county and across the region, 
and into Colorado and Nebraska.   
The Cheyenne MSA is located in Southeast Wyoming, with close access 
to cities in Colorado, Nebraska and Wyoming. Improving access to 
I-25 and I-80 strengthens connections to the two neighboring states 
while coordinating transit and transportation planning within its nearby 
communities. Increasing connectivity across the county and into 
neighboring states expands travel efﬁ ciency throughout the region. When 
communities increase connectivity, it reduces travel barriers, eases 
congestion, and improves transportation related safety. Strategies under 
this measure include rural access to transit and enhanced community 
transportation connections.  
Transportation Measure 3 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
Digital mockup of “CoCo,” the Colorado Connector 
passenger rail, set to start service in 2029. There are 
plans to eventually expand service into Wyoming and 
New Mexico.
May need a diff erent image due to 
copyright
May need a
copyright
a diff erent image due to 
Strategies:
• Increase rural transit across and throughout the county.
• Offer on-demand transportation outside of city limits through turn-
key services.
• Enhance connections between Laramie (Albany County), Laramie
County, Colorado, and Nebraska.
• Advocate for a commuter train from Wyoming to Colorado.
• Advocate for regional bus service to Fort Collins or Loveland,
Colorado.
• Implement a multi-jurisdictional commuter program with the North
Front Range MPO’s VanGo vanpooling service to reduce single-
occupancy vehicle travel along Interstate 25 between Cheyenne
and northern Colorado communities like Fort Collins and Loveland.
Develop an MOU with Kimball County to improve connectivity
through shared bus stops.

37
Strategies Continued:
• Develop an MOU with the
Albany County Transportation
Authority (ACTA) to create
regional connectivity between
Laramie and Cheyenne.
Implementation Timelines and 
Milestones:
• Establishment of on-demand
transportation services.
• Regional bus service is
established between Cheyenne
and Front Range Colorado
communities.
• A partnership with the North
Front Rage MPO is created and
VanGo service is implemented
between Cheyenne and northern
Front Ragne communities.
• MOU with Kimball County is
developed.
• MOU with ACTA is developed.
• Commuter train from Wyoming
to Colorado is created.
Metrics for Tracking Progress:
• Radius of on demand
transportation outside of city
limits.
• MOU completed.
• Quantiﬁ ed GHG Emission
Reduction
Figure 14. Cumulative greenhouse gas emissions reduction through 2050 from Transportation Mea-
sure 3. Scenario: 23% of cross-state commuter trips shifted from light-duty vehicles to transit by 2035.
Figure 15. Cumulative co-pollutant emissions reduction through 2050 from Transportation Measure 3.  
Scenario: 23% of cross-state commuter trips shifted from light-duty vehicles to transit by 2035.
38
Measure 4: Shift commuter patterns from single occupancy vehicles to 
transit.   
A way to cut personal transportation costs and reduce emissions 
is by relying on less single-occupancy vehicles for everyday travel. 
This measure focuses on helping commuters choose options other 
than driving alone. Strengthening and promoting the Cheyenne 
MSA’s transit system plays a huge role in this shift. More frequent and 
expanded service, easy to navigate and accessible routes and stops
makes transit a reliable and practical transportation choice. Emphasizing 
local transit eases congested roads and helps residents save on 
fuel and vehicle wear and tear. Strategies under this measure include 
increasing public transportation participation.  
Transportation Measure 4 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
One of Cheyenne Transit Program’s many purple buses.
38
yenne Transit Program’s many purple buses.
Strategies:
• Increase public transportation ridership.
• Add more stops and increase bus frequency to improve
accessibility to stores and businesses.
• Build awareness of transit options and services with public
education.
• Understand commuting patterns and how they relate to the
Cheyenne workforce.
• Establish a park and ride facility downtown as part of the transit
loop.
• Improve transit shelters to provide shade.
• Continue identifying challenges transit system users face,
especially the downtown workforce.

39
Strategies Continued:
• Work with the Cheyenne
Transit Program to analyze
current transit ridership and
assess unmet needs for bus
stops and ﬁ xed routes.
• Increase visibility of transit
stops through signage.
• Enhance the passenger
experience by deploying
real-time bus tracking and
interactive route mapping
across mobile and web
platforms, providing riders
with instant access to arrival
times and service alerts.
Implementation Timelines and 
Milestones:
• Downtown park and ride facility
is created.
• All transit shelters offer shade.
Figure 16. Cumulative greenhouse gas emissions reduction through 2050 from Transportation Measure 
4. Scenario: 20% of trips shifted from light-duty vehicles to transit by 2035.
Figure 17. Cumulative co-pollutant emissions reduction through 2050 from Transportation Measure 4. 
Scenario: 20% of trips shifted from light-duty vehicles to transit by 2035.
40
Metrics for Tracking Progress: 
• Increase in “Ridership” of public transit.
• Number of bus stops added.
• Number of shade implements/structures added at bus stops.
• Bus stop distance from main shopping hubs.
• Launch a bus-tracking app and website with live maps and schedules, aiming for at least 10% of active users in
the ﬁ rst six months. 
Figure 18. Cumulative co-pollutant 
emissions reduction through 2050 
from all Transportation Measures.
ctive users in 
users in

41
3.3. Waste Management and Water 
3.3.1. Introduction 
As the community grows, so does the amount of waste produced and 
demand on local water treatment and distribution systems. These 
sectors directly affect environmental health and public services. The 
waste management sector includes emissions from landﬁ lled waste 
and compost, while the water resource sector includes emissions from 
wastewater treatment processes.  
Landﬁ lls generate the greenhouse gas, methane, and ﬁ lling landﬁ lls up 
too quickly shortens the lifespan of the landﬁ ll and increases long-term 
costs. At the same time, for the water resources sector, climate change 
impacts in Wyoming are likely to cause increases in the likelihood 
of droughts, water shortages, and changing weather patterns. 
Ensuring that water is used sustainably and waste is managed to limit 
contamination and extend infrastructure, helps protect community 
health and keeps costs low. The goal for this sector focuses on 
increasing the longevity of the landﬁ ll, preparing for water shortages 
and droughts, and water public outreach. 
Goals:
• Increase the waste diversion rate to ensure the longevity of the
landﬁ ll.
• Provide a resilient and reliable water supply.
• Promote water conservation and responsible water use to prepare
for potential water supply shortages and droughts.  
Aquatic plants at the 
Cheyenne Botanic Gardens.
ible water use to prprprrr prpepepepepepepeppepepararaaraaraarare e e ee
droughts.  

42
3.3.2 Waste Measures 
Measure 1: Increase the proportion of waste that is recycled and 
composted while reducing contamination levels. 
One way to cut down on waste and lower emissions is by correctly 
recycling and composting instead of throwing everything away in a trash 
can. This not only ensures that trash is properly sorted and taken care of, 
but reduces the amount headed to the landﬁ  ll to create emissions.
This measure’s goal is to increase the amount of reused and/or composted 
materials. Trash is something that everyone can see, whether it's through 
overﬂ owing trash cans or items on the side of the road. Strategies in this 
measure include running research, including more waste collection 
options, and increasing public education and awareness on waste. 
Waste Management and Water Measure 1 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
A City of Cheyenne waste bin with Cheyenne Depot 
standing tall in the background.
Strategies:
• Increase public engagement and awareness.
• Develop informational campaigns to educate the community on
proper waste disposal practices.
• Promote buy local campaigns.
• Provide clear signage or fact sheets with information about what
can and can’t be recycled.
• Add more options for waste collection across Cheyenne.
• Increase composting capacity.
• Implement recycling in parks, events, and municipal operations.
• Conduct research to identify new solutions, policies, and practices for
waste management.
• Research single-use plastics policies, including opt-in services for
single-use plastics at restaurants and delivery services.
in the background.
43
Strategies Continued:
• Research new technologies
for waste disposal, including
incinerators or more landﬁ ll
gas capture.
Implementation Timelines and 
Milestones:
• Recycling signage or fact sheets
are created and distributed.
• Composting capacity/
participation is increased.
• Recycling in parks, events,
and municipal operations is
implemented.
Metrics for Tracking Progress:  
• Increase in composting capacity/
participation.
• Increase in waste diverted from
the landﬁ ll.
Co-pollutant emissions were not 
modeled for this measure due to lack 
of data.
Figure 19. Cumulative greenhouse gas emissions reduction through 2050 from Waste Management 
and Water Measure 1. Scenario: 100% of recyclable waste and 100% of compostable waste diverted 
from landﬁ ll by 2035. 

44
Measure 2: Promote water conservation and responsible water use to protect existing water sources and provide a 
resilient and reliable water supply.  
Protecting the MSA’s water resources and supply starts with using water more efﬁ  ciently and responsibly in everyday 
efforts. This measure focuses on not only helping the region, but residents and businesses conserve water. By using 
smart-irrigation systems, planting native or drought-tolerant plants, and installing low-ﬂ ow ﬁ xtures can help 
not only conserve water but protect the quality and quantity of local water sources. Key strategies are encouraging 
residents and businesses to conserve water.  
Waste and Water Management Measure 2 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
Kids and families enjoying the splash pad in Downtown Cheyenne on a warm day.
sources andpppppproviviviviviviviviii vidededededededededededededededededededeededaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
nd responssssssiibiiily
innnnnnnneveveveveveveveveveveveeeveveerererererererererererereeeeydydydydydydydydydydydyydydddaaaaaayaaaaaa 
 y
onserve wateeer.rrr By ususususususususuusususs uus usuuininiinininininininininininninnnnigggggggggggggggggg
ﬂow ﬁ xtures
ccccananaahhhhhhhhhhhhhheleleleleleleleleleleleleleleleleleeeepppppppppppppppppp
egies are encourrragagagagagagagggininininnininnggggggggg
45
Strategies:
• Protect existing water sources.
• Promote water conservation at the municipal level.
• Promote residential water conservation.
• Encourage the commercial and industrial sectors to adopt water
conservation practices.
Implementation Timelines and Milestones:
• Groundwater levels are increased.
• Single-family residents use less water.
• Requirements for irrigators are implemented.
• Data centers reduce water consumption.
Metrics for Tracking Progress:
• Increase in sustainable water supply.
• Decrease in water use after conservation measures taken.
• Increase in number of household greywater systems installed.
• Monitoring and stabilization of groundwater levels.
• Reduction in single family water usage by 5% within ﬁ ve years.
Emissions reductions and Co-pollutant impacts were not modeled for 
this set of strategies due to lack of data. 
The Paul Smith Children’s Village at the Cheyenne 
Botanical Gardens.

46
Measure 3: Improve water quality and enhance stormwater 
management.   
Protecting waterways and keeping stormwater infrastructure clean 
starts with improving runoff management and treating wastewater
before it reaches rivers and streams. This measure focuses on helping 
residents, businesses, and the city to adopt actions like installing 
rain gardens, using permeable pavement, and maintaining green 
infrastructure. Cleaner stormwater protects local water systems, 
supports wildlife, and reduces the cost of water treatment.
Strategies in this measure include improving stormwater quality near 
developments and in community parks and open spaces.  
Waste Management and Water Measure 3 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
A portion of Cheyenne’s Greenway, which offers more 
than 21 miles of path for walking, biking, skating, and 
running
Strategies:
• Enhance water management of community parks and open spaces
to improve water quality.
• Continue to use Integrated Pest Management practices in public
parks instead of using pesticides.
• Implement projects identiﬁ  ed in the City’s Drainage Plans,
prioritizing projects that improve water quality and enhance public
open spaces.
• Include green infrastructure measures in complete streets
projects, such as bioswales and permeable pavement.
• Improve stormwater quality in commercial and residential
development.
• Reduce sediment pollution from new developments through
implementation of best management practices.
ce stormwateteteeeeer 
er infrastruccccccctureccccccccccccccccccleleleleleleleleeleleelleeeeananananananananananananannannnnana
and treatinggwwawwsttttttttttewewewewewewewewewewewewewewewewwweeewwatatatatatatatatatatt aatattt aaererererererererererererer errr
sure focusesooonnnnnnheeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelplplplplplplplplplpplplplplplpplplpininininininininininnininininnngggggggggggggggggg
ctions like installingngngngngnggggg 
and maintaininggrggeen 

47
Strategies Continued:
• Improve stormwater pollution prevention at mobile businesses such as food trucks.
• Ensure inﬁ ll developments comply with water quality requirements.
• Establish an ongoing water quality monitoring and testing program.
Implementation Timelines and Milestones:
• Drainage Plan projects are implemented.
• All public works and roadway projects include green infrastructure.
• Water quality monitoring and testing program is created.
Metrics for Tracking Progress:
• Percent reduction of sediment pollution.
• Number of water quality projects from the Drainage Plans implemented.
• Establishment of an ongoing water quality monitoring program.
• Number of green infrastructure measures implemented.
• City time to dredge drainage ways and detention ponds is reduced by 10% in the next ﬁ ve years.
Emissions reductions and Co-pollutant impacts were not modeled for this set of strategies. 
A walking and biking path circling Sloan’s Lake in Lions Park.
48
3.4. Natural and Working Lands 
3.4.1. Introduction 
Natural and working lands are a deﬁ  ning part of the Cheyenne Region, 
shaping its character, economy, and sense of place. These lands include 
rangelands, agricultural lands, open spaces, parks, and the ecosystems that 
support local wildlife. They provide opportunities for cleaner air and water, 
expanding wildlife habitat, recreation opportunities, and spaces for 
agriculture and ranching.  
Protecting these landscapes is important not only for ecological reasons 
but also for community well-being. Sensitive and rare habitats can easily 
be disrupted. When these areas are lost, the impacts lead to reduced 
biodiversity, increased erosion, decreased water quality, and fewer 
opportunities for residents and visitors to enjoy the outdoors. The goal 
for this sector focuses on protecting and preserving natural areas by 
supporting landowners and managers and ensuring that important 
habitats remain healthy and connected. 
Goal:
• Preserve and protect sensitive, rare, and unique natural areas.
A Bison at Terry Bison Ranch extends its tongue to eat a 
piece of feed.
48
extends its tongue to eat a 
on, 
nclude 
ms that 
water, 
or 
ons 
asily 

49
3.4.2. Natural and Working Lands Measures 
Measure 1: Encourage agriculture lands and range lands to protect and conserve natural resources and sequester 
carbon. 
Working lands and natural areas play an important role in protecting Cheyenne’s environment. This measure focuses on 
helping agricultural lands, rangelands, and open spaces conserve natural resources while storing carbon in the soil 
and vegetation. Practices such as rotational grazing, improved soil management, and restoring and planting native 
vegetation encourages carbon sequestration compared to traditional practices. Natural areas can also become dual-
purpose, by offering places for people to recreate while understanding the importance of preserving Cheyenne’s unique 
landscapes. Strategies under this measure include encouraging and intentional partnerships for water conservation 
and water quality protection. 
Natural and Working Lands Measure 1 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
Strategies: 
• Encouraging water conservation and water quality protection of agricultural lands and rangelands, especially in
riparian, wetland, and overgrazed areas.
• Educate landowners and managers on irrigation best practices.
• Encourage Regenerative Agriculture practices.
• Encourage farmers to utilize manure and compost over fertilizers.
• Leverage regional collaborations to promote resources and best practices.
• Continue to collaborate with Laramie County Conservation District, the Natural Resources Conservation Service
(NRCS) and the Farm Service Agency (FSA) to promote best practices.
• Continue the partnership to apply biosolids from wastewater treatment at local ranches.
• Collaborate with the University of Wyoming Extension on agriculture and integrated pest management
programs.
• Collaborate with Wyoming State Parks and Cultural Resources to implement educational campaigns.
ources and sesssssssssquuuesesester 
nt. This measurururuuuuue fofofocucucusesesess s ononon 
e storing carbonnnnninininttttheheheeheeheessssssoioioillll
oring and plantingngngngngngngnnnnnnatatatatatataataaiviviviivivivie eeeeeeeeee
albdal
50
Implementation Timelines and Milestones:
• Water friendly crop manual/educational materials are
developed and distributed.
• Additional ranchers identiﬁ ed and receive wastewater
treatment plant (WWTP) biosolids.
• Creation of and opening enrollment for agriculture and
integrated pest management programs.
Metrics for Tracking Progress: 
• Number of farmers utilizing manure and compost over fertilizers.
• Bird and pollinator surveys on improved lands.
Emissions reductions and Co-pollutant impacts were not modeled for 
this set of strategies. 
Aspen trees turning yellow during autumn in Vedauwoo.
51
Measure 2: Manage development to protect natural lands and wildlife.  
Effective land management helps safeguard wildlife corridors, preserves native plant communities, and reduces 
the spread of invasive species. This measure focuses on strengthening natural areas, habitats, and open spaces in 
order for these areas to remain resilient to changes and accessible for everyone. By improving how these spaces are 
maintained and monitored, increased biodiversity helps protect Cheyenne’s most sensitive ecosystems. Strategies 
under this measure consist of focusing development in existing urban areas and repurposing and/or rezoning empty 
buildings.  
Natural and Working Lands Measure 2 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
Strategies:  
• Promote urban inﬁ ll redevelopment to reduce urban sprawl.
• Encourage new development to reuse already disturbed sites (brownﬁ elds) before developing open
undeveloped land.
• Support Urban Renewal Plan incentives.
• Review and revise the urban growth boundary.
• Conduct a comprehensive review of zoning and land use policies to ensure they conform with sustainability
goals.
• Identify unique, sensitive, and rare natural areas worthy of protection and protect as open space.
• Create community garden regulations and use certain lots to create community gardens.
• Work with Wyoming State Parks and Cultural Resources, the HIstoric Preservation Board, and the Downtown
Development Authority to align historic preservation goals.
Implementation Timelines and Milestones:
• Brownﬁ elds are the main land area being used for development instead of open undeveloped land.
• Land use policies are updated.
• Revise urban growth boundary.
• Review of zoning and land use policies is completed.
mmunities, anaaaaaaad rerereddduces 
ats, and openenenee spapapaceccs in 
g how theseeesssspaaacececesssare 
ve ecosystemmms.s.s.ss
Strtrtratatategegegieieiesss 
g and/or rezoninggggggeeeeeeeeeempmpmpmpmpmpmpmpmpptytytytytytytytytytyy 
52
Metrics for Tracking Progress:  
• Number of vacant properties
transformed.
• Population density increase.
• Track changes/needs for change
to the land use policies.
• Percentage of brownﬁ elds used
for developments.
Emissions reductions and Co-
pollutant impacts were not modeled 
for this set of strategies. 
A local rancher riding his horse through a ﬁ eld.
53
Measure 3: Improve the management of natural spaces. 
A simple way to protect and improve natural areas is through more 
intentional management. This measure focuses on balancing 
conservation and recreation, to better beneﬁ  t both people and wildlife. 
Practices like restoring and planting native vegetation, maintaining 
trails, and eliminating invasive vegetation. Well-managed natural areas 
support wildlife habitat, like pronghorns, deer and various species of birds, 
improves air and water quality, and reduces erosion and ﬂ ooding.
Strategies under this measure include maintaining and monitoring tree 
canopies around the Cheyenne MSA and empowering the community to 
become active environmental stewards.  
Natural and Working Lands Measure 3 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
Strategies:
• Maintain a healthy tree canopy in the region.
• Continue to replace dying trees and expand the tree canopy with
diverse and climate-speciﬁ c species.
• Maintain brush and wooded spaces in targeted areas to reduce
wildﬁ re risk.
• Conserve the tree canopy and native vegetation in riparian areas
during development.
• Educate builders, developers, and landscapers on appropriate
planting and irrigation when new developments are being built.
• Educate and empower residents and policy makers to become
environmental stewards.
• Update zoning policies to allow and encourage native plants and
grasses in residential development.
• Improve natural resources education of decision and policy makers.
A mountain biker enjoying Cheyenne’s beautiful natu-
ral spaces.

54
Strategies Continued:
• Involve youth in community
garden programming.
• Develop educational programs
about native gardens
and plants, native plant
maintenance, and tree health.
Implementation Timelines and 
Milestones:
• Incorporation of tree plotter
software.
• Zoning policies have been
updated.
• Educational programs are
developed and open for
enrollment.
Metrics for Tracking Progress: 
• Maintain a tree plotter software
inventory for residents to expand
the city’s tree inventory.
• Number of dying trees replaced
each year.
• Number of planting and irrigation
trainings offered.
Figure 20.Cumulative greenhouse gas emissions reduction through 2050 from Natural and Working 
Lands Measure 3. Scenario: 20% increase in land area preserved by 2035.
55
3.5 Workforce Planning 
3.5.1 Introduction 
Cheyenne’s ability to grow and prosper depends on how well the 
region develops and supports its current and future workforce. This 
sector focuses on how well the community prepares people for jobs, 
supports local employers, and creates pathways that help residents 
build strong and lasting careers.  
Addressing workforce needs helps the region stay and become 
competitive and resilient. High quality jobs that sustain families not 
only strengthens the local economy, but also improves the overall quality 
of life. At the same time, aligning worker skills with emerging trends 
across key industries helps the Cheyenne MSA region stay adaptable in 
an ever changing job market. The goals for this sector focus on making 
the region an appealing place to live and work, helping attract new 
talent, while giving young residents a reason to stay.
Goals:  
• Promote the creation and accessibility of high-quality jobs that will
help sustain families.
• Build a pipeline of skilled workers that aligns with workforce trends
across key industries to promote economic vitality.
• Ensure that as the Cheyenne MSA grows into a workforce hub,
environmental impacts are taken into account.
• Improve the quality of life to attract new workers and retain the 
young population. 
The outdoor cofffee bar at Paramount Cafe, a 
locally owned and operated coffee shop.
w workers and retaiaiaaiannnnnnnnththththhthhhththe eeeeeeee
The ou
locally
56
3.5.2 Workforce Measures 
Measure 1: Provide training and workforce development programs that 
promote the creation and accessibility of high-quality jobs. 
Investing in training and workforce development supports a strong 
local economy and creates more opportunities. This measure focuses on 
building skills that align with current and future job needs and retaining 
the workforce, making high-quality jobs more accessible throughout 
the community. Offering training, apprenticeships, and career pathways 
helps residents gain hands-on experience and ﬁ nd stable and well-paying 
jobs. Strategies in this measure include training workers in emerging 
technologies and strengthening a robust workforce.  
Workforce Measure 1 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
A ﬁ reﬁ ghter performs the traditional spray-down of 
the new engine during the department’s wet-down 
ceremony.
56
Strategies:
• Ensure workers are trained in emerging industries and technologies
by working with the Laramie County Community College and other
agencies.
• Provide non-degree programs that focus on sustainability and
environmentally conscious practices.
• Create training programs on EV repair and maintenance.
• Provide contractor training for clean energy technologies like heat
pumps to increase familiarity.    
• Promote training and classes using messaging that will resonate
with various industries.
• Provide training for preservation and adaptive reuse.

57
Strategies Continued:
• Ensure a robust workforce exists to support growth in the region.
• Partner with Cheyenne LEADS, the University of Wyoming, Laramie County Community College and the
Chamber of Commerce to attract clean energy businesses.
• Explore offering incentives to recruit businesses and workers.
• Leverage demand for more public transportation and a light rail to bring in new workers.
• Recruit more long-term drivers for public transportation by offering good pay and beneﬁ  ts.
Implementation Timelines and Milestones:
• Training programs are created.
• Contractor training is provided.
• Partnership between the City, Cheyenne LEADS, the University of Wyoming, Laramie County Community College
and the Chamber of Commerce is established.
• Incentives are created to the extent allowed under applicable laws.
Metrics for Tracking Progress:
• New clean energy businesses added each year.
• Amount of incentives offered.
• Addition of community college programs to support local employers.
Emissions reductions and Co-pollutant impacts were not modeled for this set of strategies. 
Dedicated workers serving meals 
at the Hell on Wheels Rodeo.
58
Measure 2: Support businesses in adopting resource conservation practices.  
An easy way to reduce resource use, save money, and support long-term sustainability is by helping businesses adopt 
conservation practices. This measure focuses on providing businesses with the tools and support to use energy and 
water more efﬁ ciently throughout their operations. Changes like upgrading equipment, reducing consumption, and 
improving water efﬁ ciency reduces environmental effects, while also lowering operation costs. Strategies for this 
measure include educating business owners on resource efﬁ cient resources and technical assistance.  
Natural and Working Lands Measure 2 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
Strategies:
• Promote resource-efﬁ cient business operations through education and technical assistance.
• Increase awareness of best practices to conserve resources and how businesses can beneﬁ t from it.
• Continue to work with data centers to reduce their energy use, water use, and generate solar and wind power.
• Provide 1:1 support to small businesses to help them navigate energy efﬁ  ciency opportunities.
• Explore whether it is more efﬁ cient to transport cargo by rail instead of trucks.
• Work with the Wyoming Department of Workforce Services, the Wyoming Small Business Development Center
and Laramie County Community College to provide workforce training.
Implementation Timelines and Milestones:
• Creation of 1:1 technical assistance program.
• Completion of transport cargo research.
• Workforce training is provided.
Metrics for Tracking Progress: 
• Number of businesses participating in 1:1 navigation services.
• Reduction in water use.
• Number of workforce training enrollment.
Emissions reductions and Co-pollutant impacts were not modeled for this set of strategies. 

59
Measure 3: Ensure that families moving into Cheyenne have access to essential resources nearby.   
A simple way to support families moving into Cheyenne is by making sure there are essential and recreational resources 
available across neighborhoods. This measure focuses on improving access to every need such as grocery stores, schools, 
healthcare, parks, etc. When families have access to these resources, it provides a better quality-of-life for them and the 
community as a whole. Better access also strengthens neighborhoods and supports local businesses. Strategies under 
this measure include improving local infrastructure and services to attract families to the Cheyenne area.  
Natural and Working Lands Measure 3 Costs and Beneﬁ ts:
Strategies:
• Improve local infrastructure and services.
• Create a “third space” in South Cheyenne, such as a recreation/community center.
• Provide access to childcare, such as at a community center or library.
• Develop a recreational center that the Cheyenne community can use year round.
• Support more grocery store options for the community.
• Provide indoor recreational opportunities like mini golf and indoor parks.
Implementation Timelines and Milestones:
• Third space is created.
• Recreation centers developed.
• More grocery stores are developed.
• More indoor recreational opportunities like mini golf and indoor parks are created.
Metrics for Tracking Progress:
• Number of programs offered at the recreational center.
• Average distance to the nearest grocery store per household decreased
• Number of indoor amenities offered.
• Usage rates of indoor recreational opportunities.
Emissions reductions and Co-pollutant impacts were not modeled for this set of strategies. 

4. Beneﬁ ts Analysis
In This Chapter
 4.1 Household Efﬁ ciency, Electriﬁ -
cation, and Rooftop Solar 
4.2 Commercial Efﬁ ciency, Electri-
ﬁ cation, and Rooftop Solar
4.3 Transportation 
4.4 Municipal Support 

61
4. Beneﬁ ts Analysis
4.1 Household Efﬁ ciency, Electriﬁ cation, and 
Rooftop Solar 
• Residential Efﬁ ciency 
• Residential Building Electriﬁ cation 
• Residential Rooftop Solar 
More households in Laramie County and Cheyenne are likely to be built 
prior to 2010. This demonstrates the opportunity for energy efﬁ ciency 
upgrades and electriﬁ cation programs.   In the Cheyenne metropolitan 
statistical area (MSA). This impacts the types of resources and programs 
that community members will need to reduce their energy usage.  Black 
Hills Energy, one of the energy providers in the county, currently has 
the capacity to provide 29% of its energy from wind, solar, and storage 
resources and is projected to have capacity to provide 49% of its energy 
from wind, solar, and storage by 2030. This follows a national trend of 
sourcing cleaner energy sources. 
4.2 Commercial Efﬁ ciency, Electriﬁ cation, and 
Rooftop Solar 
• Commercial Efﬁ ciency 
• Commercial Building Electriﬁ cation 
• Commercial Rooftop Solar 
4.3 Transportation 
• 10% Gas VMT Reduction 
• EV Adoption - Gas & Diesel 

62
4.4 Municipal Support 
• Solar on Municipally-Owned Land (examples include Cheyenne Landﬁ ll and Belvoir Ranch) and Energy-Intensive 
Municipal Facilities (examples include Cheyenne’s Wastewater Treatment Plants) 
Belvoir Ranch, one potential location for municipally-owned solar arrays.
63
Figure 21. Table of beneﬁ  ts from each measure proposed in Chapter 3. Note: half stars indicate indirect beneﬁ ts while full stars indicate direct beneﬁ ts.

64
Figure 22. Table of beneﬁ  ts from each measure proposed in Chapter 3. Note: half stars indicate indirect beneﬁ ts while full stars indicate direct beneﬁ ts.
5. Appendices
In This Chapter
 Appendix A: Stakeholder En-
gagement Activities
Appendix B: Glossary
Appendix C: Workforce Analysis
Appendix D: Inventory and In-
ventory Methodology
Appendix E: BAU Modeling 
Methodologies

66
5. Key Takeaways
Appendix A: Stakeholder Engagement Activities 
Overview 
The engagement processes from the PCAP led to the following reﬂ ections to improve our approach for the CCAP: 
• More education and awareness are needed for community members to make informed decisions and 
suggestions regarding climate change efforts in the Cheyenne MSA. 
• More discussion and alignment opportunities for stakeholders from diverse sectors and backgrounds to 
ensure equitable and comprehensive GHG pollution reduction initiatives now and in the future. 
• Expand our ability to collect and analyze community level data regarding GHG emissions and environmental 
changes so we can gain a clearer picture of our role in reducing GHG emissions in the world. 
During the development of the CCAP, we implemented the following tactics to gain further insights for this plan: 
Create an Environmental Equity Steering Committee (EESC) for this grant and long-term environmental equity 
work: This committee will be composed of stakeholders from diverse sectors and backgrounds, ensuring strong 
advocacy from LIDACs and underrepresented areas in the MSA, leaders from the private sector, and bipartisan 
representation. This will establish support systems for steering committee members to promote participation. We 
will include representation from higher education institutions, Laramie County Community College and University 
of Wyoming, particularly for workforce development insights. Although the City of Cheyenne reached out to these 
institutions and they expressed support, their involvement will be more effective during the CCAP development. 
Create a Comprehensive Community Outreach Plan with the EESC: Built in partnership with stakeholders and 
the EPA’s Planning for Equitable Development tool, this Plan will assign tasks to ensure outreach work is completed 
effectively and timely, and will focus on outreach materials that inform and educate stakeholders and the general 
public, attendance of community events, organization of town halls, and of course, continued gathering of key 
measures and data regarding direct and indirect emissions reductions. 
improve our approach for the CCAP: 
ake informed decisions and 
se sectors
 and backgrounds to 
w and in the future
67
Appendix B: Glossary 
Greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory: The information used was based on version 1.2 of the U.S. Community Protocol for 
Accounting and Reporting GHG Emissions and additional activities/sources are considered in accordance with the 
Global Protocol for Community-Scale GHG Emissions Inventories. The GHG inventory includes a list of emission sources 
and sinks, and the associated emissions quantiﬁ ed using standard methods. The PCAP includes a “simpliﬁ ed" inventory. 
The CCAP will include a comprehensive inventory of emissions and sinks for the following sectors: industry, electricity 
generation/use, transportation, commercial and residential buildings, agriculture, natural and working lands, and waste 
and materials management. 
GHG emission projections: This PCAP uses a Business-as-Usual projection from 2021 (baseline year) to 2030 and 2050. 
This projection was carried out for every activity and source based on various activity growth rates and carbon intensity 
growth rates and is based on national data due to minimal current data for the Cheyenne MSA. 
GHG reduction measures: There are eleven GHG Reduction Measures in this PCAP. They are Residential Efﬁ ciency 
(Electricity/Natural Gas), Residential Building Electriﬁ cation, Commercial Efﬁ ciency (Electricity/Natural Gas), Commercial 
Building Electriﬁ cation, Residential Rooftop Solar, Commercial Rooftop Solar, a 10% Gasoline VMT Reduction, EV 
Adoption for Gasoline-powered vehicles, EV Adoption for Diesel-powered vehicles, a Landﬁ  ll Solar project, and a Ranch 
Solar project. 
Beneﬁ ts analysis: The LIDAC beneﬁ ts analysis focuses primarily on how energy efﬁ ciency and renewable energy 
sources will provide cost savings for residential energy bills. Another beneﬁ t will be improved air quality in LIDAC areas 
from reduced car exhaust, as well as improved multi-modal transportation opportunities, increasing walking, biking, 
and other healthy activities. LIDACs are communities with residents that have low incomes, limited access to resources, 
and disproportionate exposure to environmental or climate burdens. Although the Inﬂ ation Reduction Act does not 
formally deﬁ ne LIDACs, EPA strongly recommends grantees use the Climate and Economic Justice Screening Tool and 
the Environmental Justice Screening and Mapping Tool to identify LIDACs in their communities. These tools identify 
LIDACs by assessing indicators for categories of burden: air quality, climate change, energy, environmental hazards, 
health, housing, legacy pollution, transportation, water and wastewater, and workforce development. 
Review of authority to implement for each measure: As stated in Section 3.4.2., the City of Cheyenne has the authority 
to implement these reduction measures in partnership with executing organizations. These executing organizations 
will be further identiﬁ ed in the development of the CCAP. 
Intersection with Other Funding Availability: This PCAP anticipates leveraging other sources of funding from federal, 
state, and private sectors. See funding measures listed in the GHG Reduction Strategies table in Section 3.4. 
2 off ofofofofofoo the U
U.S. Comm
considered
d in accor
toryyyyyy inclu
des a list
e PCAP inc
cludes a “
pyyy
ndudddddstry, electricity
king lands, and waste
munnnititity yy Protocol for 
rdancncncee ewith the 
 of emememission sourcesss 
“simpmmmmmmliﬁ ed" inventory.y.y.  
68
Next steps: This PCAP provides a foundation for more detailed analysis in the CCAP, including projected energy and 
emissions across the region and within speciﬁ  c geographies. It highlights how speciﬁ c actions can beneﬁ t LIDAC 
neighborhoods both directly and indirectly. The CCAP will construct a model of the Cheyenne MSA and systematically 
evaluate actions and policies and their GHG impacts, ﬁ  nancial impacts, and implementation mechanisms, supported 
by an extensive engagement process. 
Priority Climate Action Plan (PCAP): a narrative report that includes a focused list of near-term, high-priority, and 
implementation-ready measures to reduce GHG pollution and an analysis of GHG emissions reductions. 
Comprehensive Climate Action Plan (CCAP): a narrative report that provides an overview of the grantees’ signiﬁ cant 
GHG sources/sinks and sectors, establishes near-term and long-term GHG emission reduction goals, and provides 
strategies and identiﬁ  es measures that address the highest priority sectors to help the grantees meet those goals. 
MSA: metropolitan statistical areas as deﬁ ned by the U.S. Census 2020 MSA population. A list of eligible MSAs can be 
found in Appendix 15.2 in EPA’s CPRG: Formula Grants for Planning, Program Guidance for States, Municipalities, and Air 
Control Agencies. 
State: all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. All other Tribes or U.S. territories (the Virgin Islands, 
Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands) should follow CRPG guidance for 
Tribes and Territories.
68
ariana
a Islands) should fo
 a Islands) should fo
,p ,
erritories (the Virgin Islands, 
llw CRPG guidancefor
 RPG guidance for 
 ollow CR
ollow CR
69
Appendix C: Workforce 
Analysis 
Introduction  
In 2023, the City of Cheyenne 
(Cheyenne, the City) became the lead 
agency for the Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Statistical Area’s (MSA) Climate 
Pollution Reduction Grant (CPRG) 
work. Cheyenne contracted Lotus 
Engineering and Sustainability, LLC 
(Lotus) to assist the development of a 
Comprehensive Climate Action Plan 
(CCAP) detailing pollution reduction 
measures. Through those measures, 
the CCAP aims to improve local 
infrastructure, protect rural landscapes 
and the environment, increase 
resilience, and spur economic growth. 
As part of the CCAP, the project team 
(Cheyenne and Lotus) conducted a 
workforce development analysis to: 
• Delineate current clean energy 
workforce trends, nationally and 
locally. 
• Identify current barriers and 
challenges in Cheyenne and 
Wyoming at large that impede 
clean energy workforce expansion.  
• Identify opportunities to expand 
the clean energy workforce in 
Cheyenne and Wyoming at large.  
MeasureJob (Job Code)
Increase energy 
efﬁ ciency and 
electriﬁ cation in 
residential buildings.
Construction Laborers (47-2061) , Electricians (47-
2111), Heating, Air Conditioning, and Refrigeration 
Mechanics and Installers (49-9021), Insulation 
Workers: Floor, Ceiling, and Wall (47-2131), Mechanical 
(47-2132).
Increase energy 
efﬁ ciency and 
electriﬁ cation in 
commercial and 
industrial buildings.
Electricians (47-2111), Construction Laborers (47-
2061), Heating, Air Conditioning, and Refrigeration 
Mechanics and Installers (49-9021), Insulation 
Workers: Floor, Ceiling, and Wall (47-2131), Mechanical 
(47-2132).
Encourage adoption of 
alternative energy.
Civil Engineers (17-2050), Construction Equipment 
Operators (47-2070), Construction Laborers (47-
2060), Electrical Engineers (17-2071), Electricians 
(47-2111), Electrical and Electronics Repairers, 
Powerhouse, Substation, and Relay (49-2095), 
Electrical Power-Line Installers and Repairers 
(49-9051), Power Plant Operators, Distributors, 
and Dispatchers (51-8010), Pipelayers, Plumbers, 
Pipeﬁ tters, and Steamﬁ tters (47-2150), Structural 
Iron and Steel Workers (47-2220), Welding, Soldering, 
and Brazing Workers (51-4120), Wind Turbine Service 
Technicians (49-9080).
Promote the adoption 
of alternative fuel 
vehicles.
Electrical Power-Line Installers and Repairers (49-
9051), Electricians (47-2111), Automotive Service 
Technicians and Mechanics (49-3023).
Table 2. Measures in the CCAP, jobs required to implement, and job codes.
70
Climate Pollution Strategies in the Comprehensive Climate Action Plan 
Pollution reduction measures developed for the CCAP will require additional workforce to ensure successful 
implementation. Consistent with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency guidance and CPRG grant requirements, this 
workforce analysis evaluates the job types, codes, and sectors expected to emerge from climate action investments. 
Table 1 lists the clean energy workforce related measures developed, the jobs, and Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) job 
codes critical to implementation. 
The ﬁ ndings from this workforce analysis are derived from informational interviews with workforce and energy 
providers and a literature review of existing national, regional, and local studies and reports about energy and 
transportation workforce development.  
Stakeholder Engagement  
Cheyenne worked with Lotus to identify stakeholders to engage with in conversations about workforce development. 
The project team was able to host informational interviews with key leaders in the space. Conversations centered 
around current challenges, initiatives, and opportunities for stakeholders, and identifying opportunities for 
collaboration.  
Workforce and Energy 
ProvidersStakeholders
High West EnergyBrooke Darden, Communications and Marketing 
Laramie County 
Community College 
Tonya Hacker, Outreach and Workforce 
Development  
Dr. Joseph Schaffer, Laramie County Community 
College President
ting 
Table 3. Stakeholders interviewed for the workforce analysis. 
71
Literature Review  
In addition to stakeholder 
engagement, the project team 
reviewed existing national, regional, 
and local studies and reports 
about workforce development. The 
research served as another method 
to determine the state of workforce 
development in both Cheyenne and 
Wyoming. 
Cheyenne Metropolitan 
Statistical Area Workforce 
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, 
Cheyenne has had an annual growth 
rate of 0.6% since the 1970s. Laramie 
County, on the other hand, has grown 
quicker than Cheyenne with an 
annual growth rate of 1% since the 
1970s. However, Wyoming has been 
experiencing an exodus of younger 
populations, speciﬁ cally from those 
in their 20s and 30s, resulting in an 
aging population.18 The state is already 
creating an educated, talented pool of 
soon to be professionals, but struggles 
to retain those students to expand 
and diversify the Wyoming workforce.      
18 https://wyomingbusiness.org/wp-content/up-
loads/2024/07/WY_Workforce_Note.pdf
ReportPublishing Organization Year
Clean Jobs America 2025 E2 2025 
Clean Jobs America 2024 E2 2024 
US Energy and Employment 
Jobs Report (USEER) US Department of Energy 2024 
US Energy and Employment 
Jobs Report (USEER) US Department of Energy 2025 
Wyoming Workforce Annual 
Report 
Wyoming Workforce Devel-
opment Council  2024 
Wyoming Energy Authority An-
nual Report Wyoming Energy Authority 2024 
Wyoming’s Energy Transfor-
mation: Insights from Federal 
Engagement with Coal Com-
munities 
Resources for the Future 2024 
Diagnosing Wyoming’s Work-
force ChallengesGrowth Lab 2024 
How Wyoming’s Exodus of 
Young Adults Holds Back Eco-
nomic Diversiﬁ cation
Growth Lab 2024 
Economic Indicators for Greater 
Cheyenne
Center for Business and Eco-
nomic Analysis at Laramie 
County Community College 
2024 
Housing in Wyoming: Con-
straints and Solutions 
Growth Lab: Pathways to 
Prosperity Project 2023 
Table 4. Studies and reports included in the literature review. 
Cheyenne has had an annu
rateof 0.6%sincethe1970s
County, on the other hand,
quicker than Cheyenne wit
annual growth rate of 1% sin
1970s. Howwwevevevererer, WyWyWyomingh
exexexpepeperiririenenencicicingngngaaannnexexexodooususus of y
pooopupupulalalationonons,s,s,ssspepepecicicﬁ  ﬁﬁcacacalllly y y frfrfro
intttheheheirir222000saaandndnd3330s0s0s, resuuultltltinii
agaainnngggpopopopuuulalaatititiononon...
181818
TTThessstatatat
crcrcreatititingngng annnedededucucucatatatedee, talelelennn
sososooono to bebebeppprororofefefessssssionals, bubb
tototo retain thoseeestststudents to 
ananand diversify the Wyoming 
18 https://wyomingbusiness.org/wp-cont
loads/2024/07/WY_Workforce_Note.pdf
72
Wyoming Clean Energy Jobs and Trends  
In the past few years, alternative energy job numbers and trends show that there has been gradual growth in this sector 
in Wyoming. The data reviewed in this section is not exhaustive. Some reports were excluded from the trends and 
projections presented below due to their age or limited relevance to the MSA’s goals and planning efforts. 
Report
Total Clean 
Energy 
Jobs
Sectoral Jobs Trends in Job #s Other trends
Clean Jobs 
America 
(2024)
8,497 jobs in 
Wyoming 
Energy efﬁ ciency: 
6,939 jobs.  
Renewables: 518 
jobs.
Other (storage and 
grid, clean vehicles, 
and biofuels): 1,041. 
3.2% total job growth in clean ener-
gy employment, ranked 42nd na-
tionally.  
Energy efﬁ ciency: 1.4% job growth. 
Renewables: 21.9% job growth. 
Storage and grid: 5.0% job growth. 
Clean vehicles: 11.5% job growth.  
Biofuels: 5.0% job growth.  
58% of all new U.S. energy sector 
jobs in 2023 were in clean ener-
gy.  
Clean Jobs 
America 
(2025)
8,735 jobs in 
Wyoming 
Energy efﬁ ciency: 
7,054 jobs. 
Renewables: 595 
jobs. 
Other (storage and 
grid, clean vehicles, 
and biofuels): 1,085. 
3.2% total job growth in clean ener-
gy employment, ranked 42nd na-
tionally.  
Energy efﬁ  ciency: 1.7% job growth. 
Renewables: 15% job growth. 
Storage and grid: 11.8% job growth 
(top 10 in the nation).
Clean vehicles: -5.4% job growth.  
Biofuels: 2.6% job growth.  
82% of all new U.S. energy sector 
jobs in 2024 were in clean ener-
gy, up from the previous year.  
Women and people of color are 
overall underrepresented in the 
clean energy workforce. 
27% of workers are people of col-
or, 28% of workers are women.  
USEER 
(2024)
8,559 jobs in 
Wyoming.None reported.
2% growth in clean energy jobs in 
Wyoming, up from the previous 
year.  
Fastest rate of growth national-
ly in the renewable energy sector 
(23.3%). 
3rd highest state percentage of to-
tal energy efﬁ  ciency jobs (2.4%). 
Employers reported 37.6% overall 
hiring difﬁ  culty, down from the 
previous year. 
Wyoming is the top state in en-
ergy jobs as a percentage of to-
tal jobs (16.6%). This is largely due 
to the heavy presence of fuels.  
Table 5. Clean energy jobs and trends (continued on the next page).
73
Report
Total Clean 
Energy 
Jobs
Sectoral Jobs Trends in Job #s Other trends
USEER 
(2025)
No clean 
energy jobs 
reported.  
None reported.
Wyoming was one of the top states 
that had the most energy employ-
ment per 100,000 workers. 
Average wages:  
Electric power generation: 
$65,430, Fuels: $62,780, Trans-
mission, distribution, and stor-
age: $59,840, Energy efﬁ ciency: 
$59,390,Motor vehicles and com-
ponent parts: $53,620.  
Wyoming 
Workforce 
Annual Re-
port (2025)  
No clean 
energy jobs 
reported.
5.7% of state em-
ployment is in con-
struction, which 
includes the con-
struction of wind 
farms.
1.1% employment increase from 
2023 to 2024.  
Over the next 10 years (2022-2032), 
Wyoming is projected to:  
Add more than 33,000 jobs overall. 
Add 3,968 (18.7%) construction jobs 
and  2,668 (21.0%) transportation 
and warehousing jobs.  
Add more than 2,700 new jobs in 
science, technology, engineering, 
and mathematics (STEM) occupa-
tions. 
Wyoming’s job growth was driv-
en by construction(5.7%), health 
care and social assistance (1.6%), 
and professional & business ser-
vices (1.7%). 
Mining, including oil and gas, 
lost jobs (-6.1%). 
Wyoming’s unemployment rate 
was 3.2% in 2024, up from 2.9% 
in 2023. 
Electricity generated through 
renewable resources: 18.2%. 
ReportProjected 
GrowthSubsector GrowthProjection 
Year
Percent Growth Over Base-
line
Wyoming’s Clean 
Energy Jobs Po-
tential Through 
2030 (2022) 
2,483 clean ener-
gy jobs. 
Solar: 279 jobs. 
Wind: 143 jobs.  
Battery storage: 641 
jobs. 
Energy efﬁ ciency: 1,420. 
2030 (low end 
projection)
200% over 2020 
Table 6. National Laboratory of the Rockies’s (NLR) projected clean energy job growth in Wyoming.  
74
National Landscape: Clean Energy Workforce 
To provide context for Wyoming’s current and projected clean 
energy workforce, this section summarizes national employment 
and industry trends in the energy and transportation sectors. 
National Energy Sector Trends 
USEER and Clean Jobs America, reported clean energy jobs 
increased in 2023 and 2024 and continue to outpace U.S. 
employment. Solar and wind keep expanding, increasing job 
availability in those electricity generating sub-sectors. There 
is notable growth and opportunity in the construction and 
manufacturing industries, as these industries employ about half of 
the energy sector’s workforce. Despite its dynamism and continued 
growth, clean energy saw a slower rate of growth in 2024 and 
beyond due to federal policy decisions. According to E2’s report,19 in 
the ﬁ rst half of 2025, companies canceled more than $22 billion in 
clean energy factories and projects, eliminating 16,500 announced 
jobs; 830,000 jobs are expected to be lost by 2030. Because of this, 
the clean energy workforce is at a challenging juncture in time. Job 
growth is expected to continue, but at a slower rate than in past 
years.  
For a more detailed look into key ﬁ ndings from the USEER and 
Clean Jobs America reports, view Table 6 on the following page. 
19 https://cleanjobsamerica.e2.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/E2-2025-Clean-Jobs-America-2025_
ﬁ nal.pdf
y jobs 
.S.
ng job 
There 
and 
about half of 
nd continued 
24 and 
2’s report,
19
in
22 billion in 
announced 
ause of this, 
e in time. Job 
an in past 
EER and 
ng page. 

75
Report Overall GrowthKey Findings
USEER 
2024 
3% growth in 2023 = 149,000 
new clean energy jobs.   
Outpaced overall national 
growth by 50%. 
Clean energy jobs accounted for 59% of new energy sector jobs (4.9% 
growth rate). Since 2020, jobs in clean energy have grown by 400,000 
(12.8% growth rate). Clean vehicle jobs increased by 11.4% (24,826 jobs); jobs 
in gas and diesel vehicles, by 2% (39,305 jobs). Wind and solar jobs in-
creased the number and share of Hispanic/Latino workers by 9,400. 32% of 
total new energy jobs, and 33% of new clean energy jobs in 2023 were ﬁ lled 
by Hispanic or Latino workers, representing 18% of total energy jobs. Union 
employers were 50% more likely to offer or require diversity and/or inclusion 
training programs than non-union employers (36% and 24%, respectively). 
Women held 26% of energy jobs, but represent 47% of the U.S. workforce. 
Black or African American help 9% of energy jobs but they represent 13% of 
the U.S. workforce.
USEER 
2025 
Energy use jobs, speciﬁ cally 
for energy efﬁ ciency, were 
2,381,700 in 2024. This ac-
counts for 47% of the energy 
use employment landscape.  
Detailed numbers for clean 
energy jobs are: Solar: 370,600 
jobs, Wind: 133,000 jobs, 
Battery storage: 78,800, EV 
charging: 2,900. 
Traditional fuel production offered the highest wages at $65,400. 
The construction and manufacturing industries employ almost 50% of the 
energy sector workforce. 39.7% of jobs in the electric power generation 
(EPG) sector are for solar and 14.2% for wind, making them the two largest 
sub-sectors in EPG.  
Clean 
Jobs 
America 
2024 
6.4% in 2023 = 149,170 new 
clean energy jobs. 
Clean energy jobs accounted for nearly 60% of all jobs in the entire energy 
sector. 3.5 million Americans working in clean energy at the start of 2024. 1 
in 16 new jobs nationwide were in clean energy. 42,000 clean energy man-
ufacturing jobs added in 2023. Clean energy jobs grew 200% faster than 
job growth economywide. Manufacturing and other services accounted for 
almost 60% of the jobs added. 
Clean 
Jobs 
America 
2025 
2.8% in 2024 = 100,000 new 
clean energy jobs. 
Outpaced U.S. employment 
more than three times over.
Clean energy jobs exceed the number of oil, gas, and coal by more than 3:1. 
Over 3.5 million Americans worked in clean energy at the start of 2025. 82% 
of all net new energy sector jobs in 2024 were clean energy. Nearly 60% of 
all clean energy jobs are in construction and manufacturing today.
Table 7. National energy sector trends. 
76
Barriers to Clean Energy Workforce Expansion in Cheyenne 
Barriers for clean energy jobs were identiﬁ ed from the literature review and engagement process. Many of these 
challenges, speciﬁ cally the emigration of young adults and lack of workforce availability, are greatly interconnected. 
These challenges are explored in greater detail below.  
Emigration from Young Adults 
Wyoming has been experiencing an exodus of its young adult population for years. Nearly two-thirds of the population 
leaves by their thirties, impacting the state’s efforts to diversify its economy and expand its workforce.20 Historically, in 
Laramie County, more people moved in than out of the county. 2020 and 2021 were the two most balanced years in 
the last 20 years.21 In addition to this, during the engagement process, stakeholders expressed that employee retention 
is increasingly becoming more challenging for direct and indirect reasons. The following sub-sections discuss these 
factors.  
Lack of Affordable Housing 
Growth Lab, a research organization housed at Harvard Kennedy School, has been conducting a study to identify 
growth diagnostics and statewide challenges.22 Part of that study included identifying constraints and solutions to 
housing in Wyoming.23 Wyoming’s housing market is more constrained than much of the United States. Home prices 
consistently exceed what economic fundamentals predict and housing supply has not been responsive to demand. 
These constraints have limited population growth, reduced density near city centers, and reduced workforce availability. 
The primary causes of these constraints are excessive regulations on housing density and types and insufﬁ cient 
investment in critical arterial infrastructure, particularly water systems.  
Wyoming has strict regulations regarding residential zoning rules including minimum lot size, height regulations, 
parking regulations, etc. These restrict the development of denser and smaller housing that would help meet housing 
needs and demands. Studies conducted by the Wyoming Planning Association (WYOPASS) and the CATO Institute24
revealed that Wyoming ranks highly in zoning and land use constraints, which impact the availability of housing 
supply. Building height and parking regulations further limit density and multi-family development due to how the 
requirements impact developer proﬁ tability.  
Another contributing factor is limited land supply and availability. The federal government owns and manages a large 
amount of land in Wyoming, and in Cheyenne speciﬁ cally, the presence of F.E. Warren Air Force Base further limits 
developable land.  
20 https://growthlab.hks.harvard.edu/sites/projects.iq.harvard.edu/ﬁ les/2024-10-glwp-233-wyoming-growth-diagnostic.pdf
21 https://www.wyomingeconomicdata.com/wp-content/uploads/Annual-Trends-Report-2024-1.pdf
22 https://growthlab.hks.harvard.edu/project/pathways-prosperity-wyoming/
23 https://growthlab.hks.harvard.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/2023-04-cid-wp-435-wyoming-housing-note.pdf
24 https://www.cato.org/sites/cato.org/ﬁ les/pubs/pdf/pa-823.pdf
rly two-th
its workfo
twoooooooomost
ressed that employee rereretettntion 
g sub-sections discuss thththese 
ears Near
rly two th
hirdsdsdsdsdsdsdsddd of the popopoppuplationnn 
orce.
20
 Histoooririricacacally, in
t balaaaaaaaanced yeeearararsssin 
at employeerereretettntion
e ee
cted. 
hirdsddddsdsddsdof thepopooppulationnn
heeeeeeeeeeeyyyyyyyyyenn
ure review and eng
ackooooof workforce av
gageeememmn
vaiiiilaaalalalabibibilllity, 
nt process
are great
s. MaMaManynn of thththeseseseee
tly inininteteterconnnneneneccc
e 

77
Lack of Amenities 
Recreation opportunities and amenities are methods to attract new 
residents and retain existing ones. Housing, building, and parking 
regulations discussed above reduce foot trafﬁ  c in downtown core areas, 
which impact the amount of urban amenities. As many young adults prefer 
living in walkable and densely populated areas, many might choose to leave 
Wyoming in search of places that have more amenities to offer. 
Lack of Occupations Requiring a Tertiary Degree 
In 2022, Wyoming had the sixth highest score in the nation and highest 
in the West in the National Assessment of Education Progress.25 However, 
Wyoming’s economy and workforce are comprised of the mining, 
accommodation, and food services industries, which often don’t require a 
tertiary degree. In turn, many Wyomingites who have a tertiary degree end 
up moving out of state in search of employment opportunities and higher 
paying jobs.26
Lack of Workforce Availability  
In recent years, Wyoming has been experiencing a decrease in workforce 
availability. This is supported by the fact that, in 2023, there were more 
than two job openings for every unemployed person in Wyoming.27 Many 
businesses have expressed that the lack of workforce availability is hindering 
company growth. According to a survey conducted by the Wyoming 
Department of Workforce Services, more than 50% of companies identiﬁ ed 
workforce availability as a constraint, as shown in Figure 1 below. In addition 
to this, from 2021-2022, Wyoming had an employment growth rate of 1%, the 
second worst in the nation; the national rate was 13.8%.28
Business leaders and public ofﬁ cials have also identiﬁ ed the lack of 
workforce availability as the main barrier to expansion. This has caused 
businesses to abandon plans to expand to the state over the fear of not being 
able to hire workers.29
25 https://ignitewy.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/Wyomings-National-Rank-Quality-Counts-and-NAEP.pdf
26, 27, 28 https://wyomingbusiness.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/WY_Workforce_Note.pdf
29 https://growthlab.hks.harvard.edu/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/2024-10-glwp-233-wyoming-growth-
diagnostic.pdf
Workforce availability as a constraint identiﬁ ed 
through a survey for businesses. 

78
Economic Reliance on Resource Extraction 
It is important to note that Wyoming has a unique economic landscape. 
The state has had a long-standing presence and economic dependence 
on resource extraction, speciﬁ cally coal, oil, and natural gas.  
• As of 2024, Wyoming is the largest producer of coal, 7th largest 
producer of oil, and 10th largest producer of natural gas in the United 
States.30
• In 2022, 21 of Wyoming’s 23 counties produced oil and/or natural gas.31
• Wyoming is the second largest producer of oil and natural gas on 
federal lands.32
• In 2022, the state levied approximately 80% of taxes, equaling 
$1,092,942,314 for oil, gas, coal, and other minerals.33
• Wyoming has a state severance tax for the extraction of oil and gas. 
Much of the tax revenue is stored in a trust fund, the Permanent 
Wyoming Mineral Trust Fund, that goes directly to the state’s General 
Fund to help pay for state operations. In 2022, oil and gas paid over 
$835 million in severance taxes, equating to 80% of severance taxes 
collected.34
• As of August 2024, coal mining employs around 4,400 people and 
pays more than $100,000 annually, equating to 1.5% of state nonfarm 
employment and approximately .07% of the state population.35  
The economic importance of extractive practices in Wyoming can 
therefore not be overlooked or dismissed. Historically, extractive practices 
have provided signiﬁ cant employment and funding to the state and its 
communities. It is imperative to understand this as it may impact the rate 
and support of clean energy adoption.  
30 https://wyoenergy.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/24_WyomingEnergy_Mag.pdf
31 https://pawyo.org/facts-ﬁ gures/ 
32 https://pawyo.org/facts-ﬁ gures/ 
33 https://pawyo.org/facts-ﬁ gures/ 
34 https://pawyo.org/facts-ﬁ gures/ 
35 https://www.rff.org/publications/reports/wyomings-energy-transformation/

79
Low Wage Growth  
Between 2021-2022, Wyoming saw the fourth lowest wage growth nationally.36 One of the contributing factors is 
slow wage increases within occupations. From 2012-2022, median wages for management, business and ﬁ nancial 
operations, computer and mathematics, and legal ﬁ elds were 8-25% lower than previous national levels and have 
continued to decline since. The only industry that has seen a continuous increase is the healthcare industry. Another 
contributing factor is the changes in the occupational structure of the economy. The state’s occupational structure is 
mainly comprised of construction and extraction; life, physical, and social sciences; and installation and maintenance. 
This compounds with low industry productivity. Workers in Wyoming, on average, have a lower output per person than 
workers in the same industries across the U.S.37 Almost 83% of businesses fall in this category. Because each worker 
produces less, businesses also tend to pay lower wages. The only outliers for productivity are jobs related to resource 
extraction, where Wyoming workers are more productive than the national average.38
Opportunities to Expand the Clean Energy Workforce 
Economic Diversiﬁ cation  
One of Wyoming’s most signiﬁ cant challenges is the lack of economic diversity; the ﬁ  ve industry sectors with the most 
employment are government, leisure and hospitality, retail trade, educational and health services, and construction.39
However, efforts are underway across the state to capitalize on emerging trends and industries and diversify and 
strengthen the state’s economy. Within clean energy in particular, carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS) and 
wind energy present major opportunities for Wyoming to expand its workforce and increase job availability. 
Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS) in Wyoming 
Wyoming is one of the ﬁ rst states with Class VI Well Primacy. This means the state is certiﬁ ed by the Environmental 
Protection Agency’s (EPA) Underground Injection Control (UIC) program to issue and enforce CO2 injection well permits 
for underground storage. Thus, Wyoming, with private sector partners, worked to create the Integrated Technology 
Center (ITC), a research and innovation center for carbon capture and conversion technologies. The ITC receives $15 
million of investment from the state of Wyoming, $5 million from private industry, and an additional $1 million from the 
National Rural Electric Cooperative Association.40
The ITC is not the only state-led effort. The University of Wyoming hosts the Center for Carbon Capture and Conversion 
(CCCC) and operates the Carbon Storage Assurance Facility Enterprise (CarbonSAFE). At CCCC, research scientists work 
36 https://wyomingbusiness.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/WY_Workforce_Note.pdf
37 https://wyomingbusiness.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/WY_Workforce_Note.pdf
38 https://wyomingbusiness.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/WY_Workforce_Note.pdf
39 https://doe.state.wy.us/LMI/trends/0126/ss_proj.htm
40 https://wyoenergy.org/portfolio/carbon-capture-utilization-storage-ccus/
construct
low indu
ndusttttttririririririririrres
producccesee less, businesses also
extractititiooon, where Wyominggggggggwo
thematittttcs
e only ind
ges in the
and mat
since. The
the chan
mmaminlyyyccccomomomoprisedoooooooof c
This comomompoppopunds with
workerrrs s s sininini the sammmme in
BeBeBeBtweeee
slslslsowoo waaa
opopopoeratioioionsnsns, ,,compmpmpuuuter
cococontinueueeeddddto decececcllline s
coccntribubububuutititiing factor is t
ourth lowest wage
s. From 2012-200000022222222, 
sandlegalﬁeldsw
sawwwttthe fo
cupppatatations
thematittittititittcs
Wyoming
within occ
and mat
eeennn20202021-2020202022,2,2, W
agagagageeeeiniicreaeaeaesesesess w
compmpmppuuuter
LoLoLoLw wwW
Waaaagegegege Growtwtwtwthhh 

80
to develop uses for coal, including new uses, converting coal into products, and carbon capture. CarbonSAFE, funded 
through the Department of Energy (DOE), is one of 13 original CCUS project sites ensuring safe deployment for CCUS 
systems.  
Wyoming’s exploration of CCUS isn’t stopping any time soon. Through CCUS work, Wyoming is expected to add an 
annual average of up to 3,340 project jobs over 15 years and 1,964 operations jobs.41 Recent efforts showcase the state 
and private entities’ commitment to expanding efforts and becoming a national leader in carbon capture. Moreover, the 
state’s Class VI primacy gives Wyoming an advantageous position to continue developing CCUS projects.  
Wind Energy 
Wyoming is the eighth state in the country with the most wind energy generation potential.42 Geographically, 
Wyoming’s mountain passes move steady winds across its prairie lands, giving the state strong wind energy generation 
potential. Because of this, wind energy is an abundant resource in Wyoming, currently making it the state’s second-
largest source of electricity generation.  
Wind energy projects are already underway to harness this potential and expand renewable electricity generation 
across the state and create new jobs within Wyoming’s clean energy workforce. One of these projects, the Chokecherry 
and Sierra Madre Wind Energy Project (CCSM Project), is a utility-scale windfarm that is set to be completed in 2029. The 
CCSM Project is expected to be the largest wind power project in North America, create thousands of construction jobs 
and around 114 permanent operations and maintenance jobs, and contribute millions in property taxes and sales and 
use taxes.43  
In addition, Southeast Wyoming has an average wind speed greater than 23 MPH, making it an ideal place for wind 
energy generation. Given its geographic location, Cheyenne and Laramie County at large should prioritize supporting 
and expanding wind energy development and attracting investment that will lead to economic growth and workforce 
expansion.
Conclusion  
Based on this landscape review of Wyoming’s workforce, the Cheyenne Metro Statistical Area (MSA) is at a critical 
juncture for its workforce development ecosystem. The MSA, and Wyoming as a whole, are facing the challenge of an 
aging population and low workforce availability. This can prevent businesses from wanting to move or open in the area, 
and hinders the state’s economic output. The clean energy economy has major potential in Wyoming, speciﬁ cally for 
wind energy development. The Cheyenne MSA has an opportunity to lead the charge in the clean energy workforce 
expansion by leveraging existing resources. 
41 https://wyoenergy.org/portfolio/carbon-capture-utilization-storage-ccus/
42 https://wyomingrenewables.org/renewable-technologies/wind/
43 https://www.powercompanyofwyoming.com/about/index.shtml
prororoddducttts,s,s,aandndndcccarararbonnncaccptttururure.e.e.CCCarbobobonSnSnSAFAFAFE,fffununundedededdd
USSSppprojectctctsssitititesee ensuuruingsafefefedddepeeloymmmenenent t tfooor CCCCCCUSUSUS 
ough CCUS work, Wyomingiiisssexeepected to add aaan 
operations jobs.
41
 Recent effofofortrtrts ssshowcase the state 
ming a national leader in carbrbrbonoo capture. Moreover, the 
 to continue developing CCUSSSprojects.  
nergy generation potential.
42
 Geographically, 
lands, giving the state strongwind energy generation 
n Wyoming, currently making it the state’s second-
81
Appendix C1: Existing Programs and Partnerships 
Laramie County Community College (LCCC) has been partnering with the school district to work together on 
developing a talent pipeline and helping kids earn a signiﬁ cant number of credits before going to college.44  
Partners: LCCC, Laramie County School District 
Laramie County Community College offers students the opportunity to enroll in the LCCC Accelerate Program. The 
program allows high school students to earn up to 24 college credits, making it free to earn an associates degree.45
Partners: LCCC  
Laramie County Community College offers a one semester wind energy program where students learn the ins and outs 
of operating and repairing wind turbines.46
Partners: LCCC 
The Department of Workforce Services (DWS) provides training services for those seeking employment. They have a 
location in Cheyenne. 
Partners: DWS  
The Wyoming Innovation Partnership (WIP) brings together state agencies and education partners to strengthen 
Wyoming’s workforce and economy through better coordination and collaboration. WIP has an energy program and a 
workforce development program that trains and assists students in recruitment and job placement.47    
Partners: WIP, Wyoming Business Alliance (WBA), Wyoming Heritage Foundation (WHF) 
Wyoming’s Workforce Development Council leads the state’s NextGen Sector Partnerships program, which aims to 
identify and address pressing needs in key industries.48
Partners: DWS  
The Wyoming State Energy Ofﬁ ce facilitates the State Energy Program (SEP), a federally funded program. The program 
helps communities save money on electricity bills and provides technical assistance.49
Partners: Wyoming State Energy Ofﬁ ce   
44 Interview with Laramie County Community College representative.
45 https://www.lccc.wy.edu/accelerate/
46 https://www.lccc.wy.edu/pathways/tradesTechnical/windEnergyProgram/index.aspx
47 https://wip.wyo.gov/home
48 https://dws.wyo.gov/dws-division/councils-and-commissions/wwdc/next-generation-sector-partnerships/
49 https://wyoenergy.org/state-energy-ofﬁ ce/
81
collab
cruitm
Foun
Sect
m (SEP
cal as
hips/
p
p
boration. WIP has a
ment and job place
ndation (WHF)F 
tor Partnnerershshippssprpro
P), a federally funde
ssistance.
49
rtners to strengthen 
g
gy program and a 
47
    
 whichchaaimims stoto 
grgram. Thheeprogramm
an ener
ement.
4
ogram,
ed proog
82
The Wyoming Integrated Test Center (ITC) provides a space for carbon capture, utilization and sequestration (CCUS) 
testing and research.50
Partners: ITC 
The University of Wyoming hosts the Center for Carbon Capture and Conversion (CCCC) and operates the Carbon 
Storage Assurance Facility Enterprise (CarbonSAFE). 
Partners: University of Wyoming
50 https://wyomingitc.org/ 
Laramie County Community College students perform maintenence on a 
wind turbine on F.E. Warren Air Force Base near Cheyenne in December, 
2019. Photo Credit: Laramie County Community College.
83
Appendix D: Authority to Implement
Energy and Buildings
Measure 1: The City of Cheyenne and Laramie County have authority to adopt and enforce local building codes 
pursuant to Wy Stat § 35-9-121. The City can also implement certain residential energy efﬁ ciency and electriﬁ cation 
incentive methods through WY Stat § 15-1-103 (a)(xiii), which allows governing bodies to license and regulate certain 
business activities, building contractors and professional trades. Under Resolution 6135, the City of Cheyenne has the 
authority to initiate, develop, and execute a Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) program. 
Implementation of incentive-based programs may require consideration of Article 16, Section 6 of the Wyoming 
Constitution.
Measure 2: The City of Cheyenne and Laramie County have authority to adopt and enforce local building codes 
pursuant to WY Stat § 35-9-121. The City can also implement certain commercial and industrial energy efﬁ ciency and 
electriﬁ cation incentive methods through WY Stat § 15-1-103 (a)(xiii), which allows governing bodies to license and 
regulate certain business activities, building contractors and professional trades. Under Resolution 6135, the City of 
Cheyenne has the authority to initiate, develop, and execute a Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) program. 
Implementation of incentive-based programs may require consideration of Article 16, Section 6 of the Wyoming 
Constitution.
Measure 3: The City of Cheyenne maintains authority over municipal facilities, procurement, and operations pursuant 
to WY Stat § 15-1-103. The City has existing authority to implement land use, zoning, and development policies pursuant 
to WY Stat § 16-1-601. The City’s Uniﬁ ed Development Code further establishes regulatory authority to support 
implementation of land use policies related to Measure 3. 
Measure 4: The City of Cheyenne and Laramie County have authority to adopt and enforce local building codes 
pursuant to WY Stat § 35-9-121. The City can also implement certain commercial and industrial energy efﬁ ciency and 
electriﬁ cation incentive methods through WY Stat § 15-1-103 (a)(xiii), which allows governing bodies to license and 
regulate certain business activities, building contractors and professional trades. The City has existing authority to 
implement land use, zoning, and development policies pursuant to WY Stat § 16-1-601. The City’s Uniﬁ ed Development 
Code further establishes regulatory authority to support implementation of policies that impact subdivisions, zoning, 
and design elements of development.  
Implementation of incentive-based programs may require consideration of Article 16, Section 6 of the Wyoming 
Constitution.
AAAppppppeeennndddiiixxx   DDD::: AAAuthhhoooritttyyy tttooo IIImmmpppllleeemmeeen
Ennneeerrrgggyyy aaandd BBBuildiiinnngggsss
Measasasuurue 1:
 The City offfCCCheheheyenne annndddLaLaLarararamimme County 
pursuant to Wy Stat § 353535-9-9-9-121. The Citycccananan also implem
incentive methods thrororougugugh WY Stat § 15-1-103(a)(xiii), w
business activities, buiiildldldinining contractors and profession
authority to initiate, deveveveleeop, and execute a Property A
Implementation of incentive-based programs may req
Constitution.
Measure 2:
 The City of Cheyenne and Laramie County
pursuant to WY Stat § 35-9-121. The City can also implem
electriﬁcation incentive methods through WY Stat § 15
84
Measure 5: The City of Cheyenne and Laramie County have authority to adopt and enforce local building codes 
pursuant to WY Stat § 35-9-121. The City can also implement certain commercial and industrial energy efﬁ ciency and 
electriﬁ cation incentive methods through WY Stat § 15-1-103 (a)(xiii), which allows governing bodies to license and 
regulate certain business activities, building contractors and professional trades. The City has existing authority to 
implement land use, zoning, and development policies pursuant to WY Stat § 16-1-601. The City’s Uniﬁ ed Development 
Code further establishes regulatory authority to support implementation of policies that impact subdivisions, zoning, 
and design elements of development.  
Implementation of incentive-based programs may require consideration of Article 16, Section 6 of the Wyoming 
Constitution.
Transportation
Measure 1: The City of Cheyenne maintains authority over transportation infrastructure, public streets, sidewalks, public 
safety, and related public works activities pursuant to WY Stat § 15-1-103. The City also maintains authority to regulate 
land use, subdivision standards, transportation systems, connectivity, and development patterns pursuant to WY Stat 
§ 15-1-601 et seq. and WY Stat § 9-8-301 et seq. The City’s Uniﬁ ed Development Code further establishes regulatory 
authority to support implementation of policies that impact subdivisions, zoning, and design elements of development. 
This encapsulates infrastructure improvements related to active transportation, pedestrian safety, bicycle safety, etc.
Measure 2: The City of Cheyenne maintains authority over municipal facilities, procurement, and operations pursuant 
to WY Stat § 15-1-103, as well as authority over transportation infrastructure that allows for ﬂ eet vehicle purchases and 
public EV chargers. 
Measure 3: The City of Cheyenne maintains authority over transportation infrastructure, public streets, public safety, 
and public transit coordination, and intergovernmental cooperation pursuant to WY Stat § 15-1-103, WY Stat § 15-1-601 
et seq., and WY Stat § 9-8-301 et seq. The City’s existing land use, transportation, and infrastructure planning authority 
may also support transit-oriented development, multimodal infrastructure improvements, and coordination of regional 
mobility initiatives intended to improve transportation access and reduce transportation-related congestion and 
emissions.
Measure 4: The City of Cheyenne maintains authority to support redevelopment and downtown revitalization activities 
pursuant to the Wyoming Urban Renewal Code, WY Stat § 15-9-101 et seq., and the Downtown Development Authority, 
WY Stat § 15-9-201 et seq. The City of Cheyenne also maintains authority over transportation infrastructure, public 
streets, sidewalks, public safety, and related public works activities pursuant to WY Stat § 15-1-103. The Cheyenne Transit 
Program (CTP) is a municipal entity that maintains authority to provide transit services. Regional coordination efforts 
may be supported by the CTP.
aut
Thi
Me
to W
pub
Me
and
et s
ma
mo
emem
MeMeasurre e4:4
 TheheCCity of Cheyenne maint
pursrsuaanntttoothe Wyoming Urban Renew
WYYSSttat §§151-99-2001 et seq. The City of Che
sttrereettss, sidewwalalksk, public safety, and rela
PrProogram (CTP) issaa municipal entity that
may be supported by the CTP.
ety, and related public works activities pu
d use, subdivision standards, transpoprtat
5-1-601 et seq. and WY Stat § 9-8-301 et se
thority to support implementation of pol
vem
ains
y ove
ains
ergo
e Cit
opm
tran
tains
thority to support implementation of
s encapsulates infrastructure improv
easure 2: 
The City off CCheyenne maint
WY Stat § 15-1-103,aas wewll as authority
blic EV chargegersrs..
easure 3:
 The Citty yofofCCheheyyenne maint
d publicic transitccooordrdininatatioin, and inte
seq.,aandd WY StStatat § 9-8-3-30101 et seq. The
ay alssossupupport transit-oriented devel
obiliitty innititiataives intended to improve
miissisionoss.
easurree4:4:
TTheheCCiity of Cheyenne maint
85
Waste
Measure 1: The City of Cheyenne maintains authority over solid waste collection and public sanitation, via its Public 
Works department, pursuant to WY Stat § 15-1-103 and related municipal powers authorities. The City may also regulate 
and contract for municipal services associated with waste collection and waste diversion activities. WY Stat § 15-7-101 et 
seq gives Cheyenne the authority to plan, create, construct, and equip liquid and solid waste facilities.  
Where applicable, implementation of waste management measures may also involve coordination with the Wyoming 
Department of Environmental Quality (WDEQ) pursuant to the Wyoming Environmental Quality Act, WY Stat § 35-11-101 
et seq., including applicable solid waste management and disposal regulations.
Measure 2: The City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities (BOPU) maintain authority over municipal 
water supply, water utility operations, water infrastructure, rate-setting, and water conservation activities pursuant to 
WY Stat § 15-7-101 et seq., WY Stat § 15-1-103, and related municipal utility authorities. 
The City also maintains authority to regulate land use, subdivision standards, transportation systems, connectivity, 
and development patterns pursuant to WY Stat § 15-1-601 et seq. and WY Stat § 9-8-301 et seq., which may support 
water conservation efforts included but not limited to: to low-impact development and  landscaping and irrigation 
requirements.
Measure 3: The City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities (BOPU) maintain authority over municipal 
water supply, water utility operations, water infrastructure, rate-setting, and water conservation activities pursuant to 
WY Stat § 15-7-101 et seq., WY Stat § 15-1-103, and related municipal utility authorities. WY Stat § 15-7-101 et seq also allows 
the City to enact rules and regulations for the protection of public parks. 
The City also maintains authority to regulate land use, subdivision standards, transportation systems, connectivity, and 
development patterns pursuant to WY Stat § 15-1-601 et seq. and WY Stat § 9-8-301 et seq., which may support water 
conservation efforts included but not limited to: to low-impact development, landscaping and irrigation requirements, 
stormwater management, etc.  
In 2023, the City adopted the 2023 Dry Creek Drainage Master Plan, which outlines projects to mitigate ﬂ ooding.
Natural and Working Lands
Measure 1: The City of Cheyenne maintains authority to participate in land use planning, watershed protection, public 
education, intergovernmental coordination, and natural resource planning activities pursuant to WY Stat § 15-1-103, 
WY Stat § 9-8-301 et seq., and related municipal powers authorities. This authority may support implementation 
of policies and programs related to water conservation, watershed protection, public outreach, and promotion of 
86
best management practices associated with agricultural lands. Implementation of agricultural and water resource 
protection measures may also involve coordination with the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality (WDEQ), 
the Wyoming State Engineer’s Ofﬁ ce, local conservation districts, and other state and federal agencies.
Measure 2: The City of Cheyenne maintains authority to regulate land use, subdivision standards, development 
patterns, and zoning pursuant to WY Stat § 15-1-601 et seq. and WY Stat § 9-8-301 et seq., which may support water 
conservation efforts included but not limited to: to low-impact development, landscaping and irrigation requirements, 
stormwater management, etc. The City also maintains authority to support redevelopment and downtown revitalization 
activities pursuant to the Wyoming Urban Renewal Code, WY Stat § 15-9-101 et seq., and the Downtown Development 
Authority, WY Stat § 15-9-201 et seq. The City’s Uniﬁ ed Development Code further establishes regulatory authority to 
support implementation of policies that impact subdivisions, zoning, and design elements of development. 
Measure 3: WY Stat § 15-7-101 et seq. gives the City of Cheyenne authority to enact rules and regulations that support 
public improvement projects. 
The City also maintains authority to regulate land use, subdivision standards, zoning, and development patterns 
pursuant to WY Stat § 15-1-601 et seq. and WY Stat § 9-8-301 et seq.
Workforce
Measure 1: The City of Cheyenne maintains authority to support economic development, public welfare, workforce 
initiatives, community programs, and intergovernmental partnerships pursuant to WY Stat § 15-1-103 and related 
municipal powers authorities. This authority may support implementation of workforce development programs, job 
training initiatives, and public education efforts. 
Implementation of incentive-based programs may require consideration of Article 16, Section 6 of the Wyoming 
Constitution.
Measure 2: The City of Cheyenne maintains authority to regulate and support local business activities, economic 
development initiatives, public education programs, and municipal services pursuant to WY Stat § 15-1-103, including 
WY Stat § 15-1-103(a)(xiii). 
Measure 3: The City of Cheyenne maintains authority to regulate and support local business activities, economic 
development initiatives, public education programs, and municipal services pursuant to WY Stat § 15-1-103, including 
WY Stat § 15-1-103(a)(xiii).
tand dow
e Downto
es regula
s of ffffffffdevelopment. 
dreeeeegulations that suppopoport 
et seq., wh
dscaaaaacaaping a
velopment
,
hich may
and irriga
t and dow
wntntntntntntntntnttown revivivitatataalililiization 
own Develooopmpmpmeenet 
atoryryryryryyryy authoritytytyyttttoooo
opment
DEQ), 
ppp
y suppppopoportwwwatatataterererr 
ationnnrrrequirrrememememeneets, 
wntntntntntntt nttown revitatataalililization
Impleme
yomimmmmmmmmmng Departme
ts, and other state
te land use, subdiv
ent ofofofEEEnv
e andddfffedeeee
visioioioioioiiooioioon stan
ironment
eral agenc
ndards, de
talalaQQQQuuaulity(((WWWD
cieeees.s.s..
evelelelopopopmentntntnt 
e 
DEQ)
entattttttion o
Departme
of agagagriririricccuclt
entofofoffEEEEnv
turallllaaand
ironment
 watataterererr resououourcrcrce
talalalQQQQQuuuality((((WDWWW

Appendix D: Inventory and Inventory
Methodology
In This Appendix
 Introduction
 Inventory Details
 Cheyenne MSA Workbook 
Overview
 Process Improvement Plan
 Conclusion
 Appendix A: Emission Factors

2023 GHG Inventory Contact Information
City of Cheyenne 
Charles Bloom 
Planning and Development Director 
P: 307-637-6282 
E: cbloom@cheyennecity.org 
Lotus Engineering a
nd Sustainability, LLC 
Tom Herrod 
Managing Director 
Emissions Accounting, Modeling, and Visualization Team 
1627 Vine Street Denver, CO 80206  
P: 303-323-5167 
E: tom@lotussustainability.com  
Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Inventory 
Management Plan for 
Community-Wide 
Emissions 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
Calendar Year 2023 
 
  
 
Table of Contents 
Introduction ...................................................................................................................................................... 91 
Inventory Details ........................................................................................................................................... 91 
Protocol ................................................................................................................................................................ 91 
Boundary ........................................................................................................................................................... 92 
Time Period ...................................................................................................................................................... 92 
Emission Scopes  .......................................................................................................................................... 92 
Reported Greenhouse Gases ............................................................................................................... 95 
Global Warming Potentials .................................................................................................................. 95 
Process to Update Inventory ............................................................................................................... 96 
Cheyenne MSA Workbook Overview ............................................................................................. 97 
Summary Tabs ............................................................................................................................................... 97 
Community Emission Summary Tabs .......................................................................................... 97 
Conversion Factors and GWPs Tab ................................................................................................. 98 
Source Tabs ...................................................................................................................................................... 98 
Refrigerants ................................................................................................................................................... 109 
Agriculture, Forestry, and Other Land Uses (AFOLU) ....................................................... 110 
Process Improvement Plan ................................................................................................................. 118 
Conclusion ....................................................................................................................................................... 118 
Appendix A: Emission Factors ........................................................................................................... 119 
 
 
  
 
  
 
Table of Figures 
Figure 1. Cheyenne MSA (Laramie County) Limits ............................................................... 92 
Figure 2. USDA Census data on fertilized acres in Wyoming and Laramie 
County. .................................................................................................................................................................. 111 
Figure 3. Opening page of EPA SIT. ................................................................................................. 111 
Figure 4. CH4 Emissions from Manure Management calculations in EPA SIT. 112 
Figure 5. N2O Emissions from Manure Management calculations in EPA SIT. 112 
Figure 6. EPA SIT calculations for urea fertilization in Wyoming. ............................. 113 
Figure 7. EPA SIT N2O emissions for fertilizers. ...................................................................... 114 
 
Table of Tables  
Table 1. Global Warming Potentials. ............................................................................................... 96 
Table 2. Cell Color Guide. ......................................................................................................................... 96 
Table 3. Vehicle fuel efficiency by vehicle type. .................................................................... 103 
Table 4. Summary of Emission Factors. ...................................................................................... 119 
 
 
 
91 
 
Introduction  
Lotus Engineering and Sustainability, LLC (Lotus) was contracted by the City 
of Cheyenne, Wyoming to create a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
inventory for the City of Cheyenne and Cheyenne’s Metropolitan Statistical 
Area (MSA) for calendar year 2023. The purpose of the GHG emissions 
inventory is to create a clear picture of current GHG emission sources in 
Cheyenne and the MSA and provide an updated inventory that will guide 
climate action planning.  
To support this work, Lotus completed the following tasks: 
• Developed a 2023 GHG inventory and incorporated GHG accounting best 
practices, including data collection and methodology that are consistent 
with accepted national and international standards. Lotus created a 
customized inventory management workbook to keep a record of data, 
emission factors, contacts, and assumptions.  
• Created this accompanying Inventory Management Plan (IMP) for the 
inventory tool providing guidance so that staff can continue to track 
emissions. The IMP is contained herein and provides community 
information, inventory boundary and scope, GHG emission fa ctors, 
emission quantification methods, data management methods, and an 
overview of the inventory tool. 
Inventory Details 
Protocol 
The GHG inventory uses the Global Protocol for Community-Scale 
Greenhouse Gas Emission Inventories (GPC protocol) methodology.1 The GPC 
provides a transparent and consistent GHG accounting methodology for 
reporting community GHG emissions. There are two reporting levels for the 
community framework: 
• BASIC: The BASIC level includes stationary energy, in -boundary 
transportation, and community-generated waste and wastewater.  
• BASIC+: The BASIC+ level includes BASIC emission sources, as well as a 
more comprehensive coverage of emissions sources such as 
transboundary transportation; electricity transmission and distribution 
 
1 For more information regarding GPC see: https://ghgprotocol.org/ghg-protocol-cities.  
 
92 
 
losses; industrial processes and product use; and agriculture, forestry, 
and other land uses.  
The Cheyenne 2023 MSA GHG inventory was developed in compliance with 
the GPC partial BASIC+ reporting level. Relevant emissions sources included 
in the BASIC+ level were reported in addition to BASIC emissions as 
supplement. 
Boundary 
Per the GPC, communities shall establish a geographic boundary that 
identifies the spatial dimensions or physical perimeter of the inventory’s 
boundary. The boundary for the Cheyenne MSA inventory reflects the County 
boundary (Figure 1).  
 
Figure 1. Cheyenne MSA (Laramie County) Limits 
Time Period 
The 2023 inventory is based on the calendar year of 2023 (January 1, 2023 
through December 31, 2023). If data specific to 2023 was not available, the 
most recent year was included and noted in the workbook and this IMP. 
Emission Scopes  
Per the GPC, BASIC emission scopes are defined as follows. The items in bold 
are included in the inventory as part of a BASIC inventory. The items listed in 
italics and bold are applicable to jurisdictions as part of a BASIC+ inventory. 
The other items are not applicable to the jurisdictions because they were 
confidential (C), not occurring (NO) or the emissions were included elsewhere 

 
93 
 
(IE).2 Emission activities that are occurring but produce negligible amounts of 
emissions and were consequently excluded from the inventory are marked as 
de minimis. 
• Scope 1: GHG emissions from sources located within the County 
boundary, including: 
o Stationary Energy 
 Building energy fuel combustion. 
 Fugitive emissions (i.e., leakage from natural gas 
consumption). 
 Energy industries energy consumption.  
 Non-specified sources energy consumption. (NO) 
 Energy consumption from agriculture, forestry, and other 
land use (AFOLU). (IE) 
o Transportation  
 On-road transportation (including transit) fuel 
combustion. 
 Railways fuel combustion. 
 Waterborne navigation. (NO) 
 In-boundary aviation fuel combustion. 
 Off-road vehicles fuel combustion.  
o Waste 
 Municipal solid waste generated in the boundary and 
disposed of within the boundary.  
 Composted waste generated in the boundary and 
disposed of within the boundary. 
 Municipal wastewater generated inside the boundary 
and disposed of within the boundary.  
 Municipal wastewater generated outside the boundary and 
disposed of within the boundary. (NO)  
 Incinerated waste. (NO) 
 Emissions from closed landfills within the boundary. (NO) 
o IPPU 
 Emissions from industrial processes occurring in the 
boundary. 
 
2 The GPC uses notation keys to note the reason why an emission source is not applicable to a 
community. The notation keys include: Not Occurring (NO), Included Elsewhere (IE), 
Confidential (C) and Not Estimated (NE).  
 
94 
 
 Emissions from product use occurring within the 
boundary.  
o AFOLU 
 Net flux of carbon emissions and removals. 
 Fertilizer use and livestock emissions. 
• Scope 2: GHG emissions occurring as a result of the use of grid -supplied 
electricity, heat, steam and/or cooling within the city boundary.  
o Building electricity consumption. 
o On-road transportation (including transit) electricity 
combustion. 
o Other industry and transportation activities consuming electricity. 
(NO) 
• Scope 3: GHG emissions that occur outside the city boundary as a result 
of activities taking place within the county boundary, including: 
o Municipal solid waste generated in the boundary and disposed 
of outside the boundary. 
o Composted waste generated in the County and disposed of 
outside the County. (NO) 
o Trans-boundary aviation fuel consumption. 
o Transmission and Distribution Losses.  
o Consumption-based: Food Emissions. (NO) 
o Incinerated waste. (NO)  
Note on Information-Only Items 
The GPC provides guidance on emissions avoided through the purchase of 
renewable energy credits (RECs), local installation of renewable energy 
systems (including solar and wind), or recycling.3 In most cases, the 
Renewable Energy Credit would need to be “bundled” with the electricity 
purchase and not part of the utility’s energy portfolio to be accounted for 
within a community’s inventory. However, communities frequently want to 
understand the full potential impact of these activities. For communities in 
Cheyenne’s MSA, these items are calculated as “information-only” and 
include avoided emissions from: 
• Recycling. 
• Renewable Energy not bundled with the REC. 
 
3 See GPC section 4.3 (page 44). 
 
95 
 
 
Reported Greenhouse Gases  
The following GHGs are included in the inventory: 
• Carbon dioxide (CO2). 
• Methane (CH4). 
• Nitrous oxide (N2O). 
The following fluorinated GHGs are typically used in industrial processes. 
• Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) 
• Perfluorocarbons (PFCs). 
• Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6). 
• Nitrogen trifluoride (NF3).  
Only refrigerant leakage was reported for the MSA and community, which 
includes reported HFCs. Other industrial processes were not identified for the 
MSA or community, and therefore, these GHGs were not included in the 
inventory.  
Total emissions were reported as metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(mt CO2e).  
Global Warming Potentials 
All GHGs have different global warming potentials (GWP). The GWP of a GHG 
defines its contribution to global warming (i.e., the ability of each gas to trap 
heat in the atmosphere), where a GWP of one is equal to the impacts of one 
unit of CO2. The effect of a non-CO2 GHG or the combination of different GHGs 
is expressed as CO2e or carbon dioxide equivalent. This allows for easy 
comparison of the absolute effects of different gases. 
GWPs have been sourced from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC) Fifth Assessment Report.4 Table 1 shows the GHGs included in 
the inventory and their GWPs. Methane and N2O are converted to CO2e by 
multiplying their value by the 100-year GWP coefficient.  
 
 
4 For more information see: 
https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/downloads/report/IPCC_AR6_WGI_Chapter07_SM.pdf, 
page 16. 
 
96 
 
 
Table 1. Global Warming Potentials. 
Common Name Formula GWP 
Carbon Dioxide CO2 1 
Methane CH4 28 
Nitrous Oxide N2O 265 
 
Lotus recommends that for each new inventory the most recent IPCC 100-
year GWP values are used.  
Process to Update Inventory 
The total time dedicated to data collection and calculations is estimated at 
between 50-75 hours. Data collection typically takes up to three months.  
For consistency purposes, it is good practice to request that data is provided 
in the same format it was provided for this inventory. In the zipped folder of 
data provided by Lotus, portable document format (pdf) copies of email 
chains with each data contact are included, where applicable. The text in the 
emails/pdfs can be used to save time when sending out new emails to collect 
data. The Inventory Data Checklist should also be referenced for a 
comprehensive list of all the data contacts and their contact information.  
The Excel workbook is set up to ensure that it is clear which cells need to be 
updated on a regular basis. See Table 2 for an overview and example of how 
color-coding was used to help the user identify which data should be 
updated regularly versus less often. Some blue cells may have raw data that 
was manipulated to get it into the format required for the inventory. See the 
Assumptions section of the Data Entry tabs in the inventory and the 
assumption notes in the source data sections of this Inventory Management 
Plan for more information. 
Table 2. Cell Color Guide. 
Cell Color Meaning Notes 
 Do not edit Do not edit; this is a formula. 
 May need to be 
updated 
These cells may need to be updated 
depending on if a protocol releases new 
emission factors, large infrastructure 
 
97 
 
changes, etc. These cells are not 
updated regularly.  
 Needs to be updated 
each inventory 
Blue cells require manual entry each 
year since data updates on an annual 
basis.  
 
Cheyenne Workbook Overview 
The Cheyenne MSA inventory workbook includes different color tabs, as 
described below:  
• Summary Tabs: The gray tabs provide an overview of the spreadsheet 
including 1) Workbook Intro and 2) Visual Summary. 
• Community Emission Summary Tabs: These green tabs include 
community indicators that are unique to the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne MSA, as well as community-specific visual summary data. The 
community indicators also allow for the ability to identify trends over 
time (e.g., population increase or decline).  
• Conversion Factors and GWPs is a black  tab that provides data used 
throughout the workbook. 
• Source Data Tabs:  The various blue  tabs store the raw data for each 
source and calculate the resulting GHG emissions. All data in light blue 
cells within these tabs will need to be updated annually or as often as a 
new inventory is completed.  
Summary Tabs 
Workbook Introduction 
The workbook introduction provides an overview of each tab within the 
workbook and is intended to guide the user. This does not need to be 
updated with each new inventory unless changes are made to the 
spreadsheet by adding or subtracting tabs.  
Visual Summary 
This tab provides visual and emission summaries from the workbook and 
aggregates the data in tables, charts, and graphs. No changes will need to be 
made annually.  
Community Emission Summary Tabs 
 
98 
 
Individual data tabs for each boundary summarize all the data collected, 
including community indicators. The data from this spreadsheet draws from 
the blue source tabs which will need to be updated with each subsequent 
inventory. Emission Summary tabs include: 
● Cheyenne Community (City of Cheyenne) 
● Cheyenne MSA (Laramie County) 
The purpose of community indicators is to normalize emissions and 
understand trends and drivers behind changes in the community’s total 
emissions over time. This section of these tabs will need to be updated with 
each new inventory.  
Conversion Factors and GWPs Tab 
This black tab provides conversion factors that will not change over time.5 
However, the GWPs will need to be updated when the most recent IPCC 100-
year values are made available. See the Global Warming Potentials 
subsection for more information. 
Source Tabs 
These tabs range in color from dark blue to light blue. Within each tab, there 
are four sections: 
• Emissions Summary: The emission summary summarizes all emissions 
from the tab by scope.  
• Notes and Assumptions: Explains each data source and all assumptions.  
• Emission Factors: Provides a list of all emission factors used in 
calculations. Appendix A: Emission Factors provides all the emissions 
factors. 
• Data Calculations: Provides an overview of the data calculations.  
Lotus and City of Cheyenne staff collected data from various sources to 
complete the 2023 emissions inventory. Whenever possible, actual source 
data on emissions-generating activity were used to calculate emissions. In 
some cases, it was necessary to make assumptions about the data received. 
The assumptions made for each sector are listed below along with a 
description of the data and calculations for each tab. These assumptions are 
also included in the notes section on each sector’s data tabs. Note that some 
calculations listed for each sector include unit conversions. Check the units of 
 
5 Conversion factors are standard conversions between two units of measure. These are 
collected from Google searches of necessary conversion factors. 
 
99 
 
emission factors before calculating emissions for each source to verify if unit 
conversions are needed. 
Stationary Energy Data Tab 
Each energy provider delivers data in a unique reporting format. As such, 
Lotus made assumptions when necessary to ensure the usability and 
consistency of data. The assumptions used in this section are explained for 
each energy source below.  
Electricity  
There are several utility companies that operate in the inventory boundary, so 
Lotus used utility maps from the Wyoming Public Service Commission to 
determine which utilities needed to be accounted for. Black Hills Energy 
electricity data were provided by Carmalee Rose. Due to the 15/15 rule, 
industrial electricity data were excluded.  
High West Energy signed a nondisclosure agreement for their electricity 
usage data. Lotus maintained these files outside of Cheyenne's filing system. 
In order to keep these data indistinguishable, Lotus calculated emissions for 
each utility and combined emissions from all utilities by sector. Electricity 
usage was also combined by sector but emissions were not calculated from 
this aggregated total due to each utility's different grid emission factors. 
WyRulec, an electricity provider, supplied electricity usage data for the 
following sectors: residential, commercial/agriculture, and irrigation. Their 
service territory does not reach Cheyenne, so all kWh were attributed to the 
MSA. 
Wheatland REA provided the total number of customers they served in 2023 
within Laramie County. Lotus applied the proportion of customers in each 
sector and the kWh/customer found in WyRulec's data 
Pine Bluffs Electric Utility was not able to provide any customer or energy use 
information. Lotus took the 2023 residential population of Pine Bluffs from 
the Wyoming Administration & Information's Economic Analysis Division and 
applied the proportion of customers found in WyRulec to the rest of the 
sectors. The same kWh/customer as found in WyRulec was then applied to 
each sector.  
Electricity consumed by electric vehicles was subtracted from residential and 
commercial totals for buildings. See section Electric Vehicles for more 
information. It was assumed that electric vehicle charging systems were 
metered with the building’s consumption and were therefore removed from 
 
100 
 
the building totals so that emissions can be calculated in the appropriate 
sector.  
A portion of electricity that is transported through the grid is lost in the 
transmission process—this is known as transmission and distribution (T&D) 
loss. A T&D loss factor was calculated based on the U.S. Energy Information 
Administration (EIA) State Electricity Profile for Wyoming.6 To calculate the 
T&D loss factor, go to the EIA page linked in the footnotes, scroll past the 
table and click the option for “Full data tables 1-17.” Download the Excel file. 
Once the Excel file is opened, navigate to the tab for Table 10: Supply and 
Disposition of Electricity. In Table 10, find the rows for Total Supply, Direct Use, 
and Estimated Losses. See the equation below for calculating T&D losses. 
T&D loss percentage = Estimated losses / (Total supply – Direct use) 
GHG emissions from T&D losses = MWh * T&D loss factor * emission factor * 
GWP 
GHG emissions from electricity = MWh * emission factor * GWP 
The following assumptions were made for electricity: 
• Assume that industrial electricity usage in Cheyenne is accounted for in 
EPA FLIGHT. 
• A population- based approach was used to estimate electricity usage 
emissions from Pine Bluffs Electricity Utility customers.  
Natural Gas 
Natural gas data from Black Hills Energy were provided by Carmalee Rose. 
Due to the 15/15 rule, Black Hills was not able to provide industrial natural gas 
data. Given the small number of industries that Black Hills serves throughout 
Colorado, South Dakota, and Wyoming (84 total in 2023 according to the 
Edison Electric Institute's ESG Disclosures), it is assumed that the two 
facilities listed in EPA Flight with Subpart C: General Stationary Fuel 
Combustion data comprise the majority of redacted industrial natural gas 
consumption. Natural gas emission factors were sourced from ICLEI’s U.S. 
Community Protocol for Accounting and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions – Appendix C.7 
GHG emissions from natural gas = therms * emission factor * GWP 
 
6 U.S. Energy Information Administration State Electricity Profile for Wyoming. 
https://www.eia.gov/electricity/state/wyoming/. 
7 For more information see: https://icleiusa.org/publications/us-community-protocol/. 
 
101 
 
No assumptions were made for natural gas. 
Stationary Diesel 
Stationary diesel data was collected from the Wyoming Dept. of 
Environmental Quality's IMPACT and Open Air tool. Stationary diesel 
generators used by the City of Cheyenne were not listed in the Open Air Tool, 
so Shannon Keslar, Fleet/Building Manager for the police department, 
reported their generator fuel use in 2023.  
GHG emissions from stationary diesel = annual hours of generator use * 
gallons/hour based on generator specs * emission factor * GWP 
GHG emissions from stationary diesel = gallons of diesel * emission factor * 
GWP 
No assumptions were made for stationary diesel. 
Propane 
Matt Hanson with FerrellGas supplied propane data, which was used to 
estimate commercial propane emissions. Only commercial data from 
FerrellGas were available for Cheyenne. Blakeman Propane provided 
additional residential and commercial propane data for Laramie County. 
GHG emissions from propane = gallons * emission factor * GWP 
No assumptions were made for propane. 
Residential Wood 
Cheyenne does not track residential wood usage, so Lotus developed a 
methodology to estimate usage. First, using U.S. Census House Heating Fuel 
data, Lotus collected the number of houses that use wood stoves for heating 
in each jurisdiction. Per the US Energy Information Administration, the 
average btu used per household in the US West for wood as a primary heat is 
69.9 million btu per household. The average BTU estimate was multiplied by 
the number of households using wood stoves and multiplied by the 
emissions factors for wood (as a stationary fuel) from the EPA Emission 
Factors Hub. Note that CO2 emissions from the burning of wood are classified 
as biogenic CO2 emissions and are not included in the CO2e emissions total. 
GHG emissions from residential wood = # of households using wood for fuel 
* 69.6 million BTU per household * emissions factors (kg/MMBTU) / 1,000 
kg/mt *GWP 
No assumptions were made for residential wood. 
 
102 
 
Renewable Energy 
Renewable energy generation data were collected for on-site hydroelectric 
and Black Hills Energy’s Renewable Ready program. Subscribers of this 
program receive their energy from the 52.5 MW Corriedale Wind Energy 
Project. Black Hills Energy also has purchased power agreements with the 
Duke Energy Happy Jack Wind (30 MW) and Silver Sage Wind (30 MW) 
Projects, and the Platte River Power Authority Silver Sage Wind Project (12 
MW). 
Avoided GHG emissions from renewable energy = -(MWh * emission factor * 
GWP) 
No assumptions were made for renewable energy.  
Fugitive Emissions Tab  
Monthly oil and natural gas production data for Laramie County in 2023 were 
taken from the Wyoming Oil & Gas Conservation Commission. Emissions 
were calculated for fugitive emissions from natural gas distribution, delivery, 
production, gathering, processing, transmission, storage, refining, and 
transportation. Additional emissions from oil wells were calculated. A report 
on fugitive emissions by the Environmental Defense Fund8 was used for 
emission calculations. 
GHG emissions from fugitive natural gas = (th/(1 – leakage rate)) * 
100,000/natural gas energy density9 * 0.02832 cubic meters/cubic foot* 
density of natural gas * percent of CO2 (or CH4) * leakage rate 
No assumptions were made for fugitive emissions. 
On-Road Vehicles Tab 
Gasoline, Diesel, and Ethanol Vehicles 
A combination of data inputs is used to calculate emissions from on-road 
transportation including vehicle miles traveled (VMT), vehicle distribution, 
and fuel efficiency. Fuel emission factors were provided by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).10 For CH4 and N2O emission factors, 
 
8 Utilized the default value of 0.3% (three tenths of one percent) from EDF User Guide for 
Natural Gas Leakage Rate Modeling Tool. https://www.edf.org/sites/default/files/US-Natural-
Gas-Leakage-Model-User-Guide.pdf  
9 Energy Density for Wyoming: 
https://www.eia.gov/dnav/ng/ng_cons_heat_a_epg0_vgth_btucf_a.htm. 
10 See EPA estimates as recommended by ICLEI: 
https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documents/2023-03/ghg_emission_factors_hub.pdf  
 
103 
 
Lotus weighted the emissions factors by vehicle make year from 1991-2021 for 
each EPA vehicle distribution type. Final emission calculations for fossil fuel-
based vehicles exclude electric vehicles, see section Electric Vehicles for more 
information.  
VMT data came from Google Environmental Insights Explorer (Google EIE). 
Using 2021 vehicle type breakdown by percentage data from the EPA State 
Inventory Tool (SIT) Mobile Combustion Module for Wyoming, daily VMT was 
broken into different vehicle classes. 11 The classes are as follows:  
● Light Duty Gas Vehicle 
● Light Duty Diesel Vehicle 
● Light Duty Gas Truck 
● Light Duty Diesel Truck 
● Heavy Duty Gas Truck 
● Heavy Duty Diesel Truck 
● Ethanol Light Duty Vehicle 
● Ethanol Light Duty Truck 
● Ethanol Heavy Duty Truck 
To understand the fuel spread by vehicle type, Lotus obtained data on the 
number of registered vehicles of all fuel types within the county from Kris 
Gisse, Motor Vehicle Supervisor and Deputy Treasurer for Laramie County. 
The percentage of each fuel type was used in calculations for VMT of each 
fuel and vehicle type combination, for example light duty gas vehicles versus 
light duty diesel vehicles. 
Vehicle efficiencies were also taken from EPA state inventory tool. See Table 5. 
Table 3. Vehicle fuel efficiency by vehicle type. 
Vehicle Type Fuel Efficiency (miles 
per gallon) 
Gas light duty 
vehicles 24.1 
Gas light duty trucks 18.5 
 
11 For more information visit EPA's State Greenhouse Gas Inventory and Projection Tools --  
Mobile Combustion Module at: https://www.epa.gov/statelocalenergy/download-state-
inventory-and-projection-tool. Fuel economy for buses was assumed to be the same as diesel 
heavy duty trucks.  
 
104 
 
Diesel light duty 
vehicles 32.4 
Diesel light duty 
trucks 22.1 
Gas heavy duty 
trucks 7.1 
Diesel heavy duty 
trucks 6.6 
Gas motorcycles 50.0 
 
Gallons of fuel consumed by fuel type was calculated using the following 
example formulas for gasoline light duty vehicles: 
Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle VMT = Annual VMT for light duty vehicles * % 
light duty that are gasoline * (1 - 10% ethanol) 
Gallons of gasoline consumed in light duty vehicles = Gasoline light duty 
vehicle annual VMT / fuel efficiency per vehicle type  
These calculations should be repeated for each vehicle type. 
CO2 emissions from gasoline, diesel, and ethanol are calculated using gallons 
of fuel consumed. CH4 and N2O emissions are calculated using annual VMT. 
Total emissions can be calculated with the following formulas: 
CO2 emissions from on-road transportation = (gallons consumed * emission 
factor)/1,000 kg/mt 
CH4 and N2O emissions from on-road transportation = (Annual VMT * 
emission factor)/1,000,000 g/mt * GWP 
These calculations should be repeated for each fuel type across all vehicle 
types.  
The following assumptions were made about gasoline, diesel, and ethanol 
vehicles: 
• Lotus assumed all gasoline used contained 10 percent ethanol. Ethanol 
fuel content is based on data at the fuel pump, which states that typical 
gasoline contains 10 percent ethanol. It is assumed that regular diesel 
contains no biodiesel. 
 
105 
 
• Motorcycles and heavy duty buses were not provided in the vehicle 
registration data. They were included with light duty vehicles and heavy 
duty trucks, respectively. 
Electric Vehicles 
Average annual VMT per vehicle for electric vehicles within Cheyenne and the 
MSA were not available, so a 2019 survey from the California Energy 
Commission for residential driving patterns was used as a proxy to estimate 
all battery electric and plug-in hybrid electric vehicle VMT. 
It was assumed that electricity used for electric vehicle charging stations was 
included in existing building meters. Therefore, to avoid double counting, 
electricity consumed by electric vehicles was subtracted from residential and 
commercial building electricity consumption totals. Transmission and 
distribution (T&D) losses from the electricity used to charge EVs were 
estimated and included as scope 3 emissions. See the Stationary Energy 
Data Tab section for the emissions calculation for T&D losses. 
GHG emissions from electric vehicles = number of community vehicles that 
are EVs * community EV VMT * vehicle efficiency * electric emission 
factor/1,000 kWh/MWh 
Repeat the calculation for each electric vehicle type. 
The following assumptions were made about electric vehicles: 
• Electric vehicle fuel efficiencies are from the U.S. Department of Energy: 
https://afdc.energy.gov/vehicles/electric-emissions-sources. 
• Based on a report by the Idaho National Laboratory titled Plugged In: 
How Americans Charge Their Electric Vehicles, it is assumed that 85 
percent of charging occurs at charging stations in residential buildings 
and 15 percent of charging occurs at stations in commercial buildings. 12 
• The proportion of U.S. hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and full electric vehicle sales 
comes from the U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics.  
Transit Tab 
Kim Serumgard, Transit Manager for the City of Cheyenne, provided VMT and 
fuel totals for Cheyenne’s public transit buses. All buses use gasoline. The 
transit system briefly goes outside of the City boundary, so QGIS was used to 
 
12 For more information see: 
https://avt.inl.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/arra/PluggedInSummaryReport.pdf. 
 
106 
 
find the length of transit routes that fall within the boundary; only routes 
within the boundary count towards the City’s emissions. 
CO2 emissions from non-electric transit = gallons of fuel * emission factor / 
1,000 kg/mt 
CH4 or N2O emissions from non-electric transit = miles traveled * emission 
factor / 1,000,000 g/mt * GWP 
No assumptions were made for transit. 
Aviation Tab 
Jet fuel and aviation gasoline data for the Cheyenne Regional Airport were 
provided by Kyle Malacina, Director of Properties and Compliance. The 
number of flights for each aircraft type was taken using information from the 
FAA's Air Traffic Activity System.13 Air taxi and civil aircraft were determined to 
mostly use aviation gas due to the smaller aircraft in these categories. Air 
carrier, general aviation, and military aircraft were determined to mostly use 
jet fuel due to the larger size of the aircraft. These determinations were made 
using information from the FAA.14 
GHG emissions from aviation = (Aviation gasoline usage * emission factors * 
GWP) + (jet fuel gasoline usage * emission factors * GWP) 
No assumptions were made for the Aviation tab. 
Off-Road Data Tab 
Off-road data was taken from the EPA National Emissions Inventory (NEI). The 
NEI categorizes off-highway vehicle emissions by fuel type: compressed 
natural gas, diesel, gasoline, and liquified petroleum gas. Quantities of these 
fuels are used to calculate GHG emissions and are categorized into the 
following use types as determined by the EPA: agricultural equipment, 
commercial equipment, construction equipment, industrial equipment, lawn 
& garden equipment, logging equipment, and recreational equipment.  
Emissions are reported at the county level, so emissions were scaled to the 
City level using population. The categories of agricultural, logging, and 
recreational equipment do not pertain to the city and therefore are omitted. 
Emissions from pleasure craft were determined to be non-applicable to both 
jurisdictions given the lack of navigable waterways in the boundary. Off-road 
fuel usage data from the Cheyenne Regional Airport and the Board of Public 
 
13 See: https://aspm.faa.gov/opsnet/sys/Airport.asp.  
14 See: https://aspm.faa.gov/aspmhelp/index/OPSNET_Reports__Definitions_of_Variables.html.  
 
107 
 
Utilities’ vehicles were both reported as information-only in this inventory to 
avoid double counting. 
The NEI gives CO2, CH4, and N2O quantities so all that needs to be done is 
convert these into CO2 equivalents. 
GHG emissions from off-road vehicles = mt CO2+ (mt CH4* GWP) + (mt N2O * 
GWP) 
No assumptions were made for the Off-Road tab. 
Railways Data Tab 
Emissions data from railway activity were taken from the EPA’s 2020 National 
Emissions Inventory (NEI). The length of railways in the City and County were 
calculated in GIS and were used to scale the data to the appropriate 
boundaries. The EPA NEI reports emissions in US tons; these values were 
converted to metric tons in the inventory workbook. 
The NEI gives CO2, CH4, and N2O quantities so all that needs to be done is 
convert these into CO2 equivalents. 
GHG emissions from railway activity = mt CO2+ (mt CH4* GWP) + (mt N2O * 
GWP) 
No assumptions were made for the Railways tab. 
Waste and Recycling Data Tab 
Most of the waste from the City of Cheyenne is sent to the Cheyenne Landfill. 
Other rural residents use private haulers who transport waste to the RAM 
trucking transfer station, where it is sent to Waste Management's North Weld 
landfill in Ault, Colorado. The Cheyenne Landfill does not have landfill gas 
collection whereas the North Weld landfill does. Landfill tonnage data for the 
Cheyenne Landfill came from Samuele Quattrini, Cheyenne Landfill Manager. 
A fifty-fifty split of residential to commercial waste was used in the analysis.  
RAM trucking was not able to provide tonnage data for the waste they 
transport to the North Weld landfill. Therefore, waste landfilled outside of the 
county was estimated by applying the percentage of households and 
commercial square footage in Cheyenne versus the MSA to the tonnage of 
waste reported within Cheyenne. 
Compost is processed at the Cheyenne Landfill and data were provided by 
Samuele Quattrini. Tonnage data were not available, so it was assumed that 
each load was three cubic yards and an EPA volume-to weight ratio was 
applied. Electronics recycling data were also provided by Sam in cubic yards. 
 
108 
 
EPA's volume-to-weight conversion for computer-related electronics was 
used to convert cubic yards into pounds. The EPA's 2018 MSW recycling 
characterization was used to calculate avoided emissions from recycling. 
Waste characterization estimates were taken from the Wyoming Solid Waste 
Diversion Study commissioned by the Wyoming Dept. of Environmental 
Quality in 2013. 
GHG emissions from landfilled waste = (sum (tons of waste * percent of 
waste type * emission factor)) * (1 – oxidation factor) * (1 – landfill gas collection 
efficiency) * GWP 
GHG emissions from composted waste = tons of compost * (mt CH4/ton * 
GWP) * (mt N2O/ton * GWP) 
Avoided GHG emissions from recycling = tons of recycling for each 
recyclable * avoided emission factor 
The following assumptions were made for the Waste and Recycling tab: 
• Assumed a fifty-fifty split of residential and commercial waste. 
• Assumed that each compost load was three cubic yards. 
Wastewater Data Tab  
There are wastewater treatment facilities, septic systems, and sewage 
lagoons within the inventory boundary. Data on wastewater treatment 
facilities came from Matt Buelow, Water Reclamation Division Manager for 
the Cheyenne Board of Public Utilities. The population served by these 
facilities includes the population of Cheyenne and the South Cheyenne Sewer 
and Water District. Dennis Lewis, the Southeast District Engineer for 
Wyoming DEQ Water Quality Division, provided data on the sewage lagoons 
in the area. Emissions were calculated for the three public lagoons (Pine 
Bluffs, Burns, and Albin) and a low industrial factor of one was used due to 
the small population size served by the lagoons and the lack of industrial 
practices in the area. Tiffany Gaertner at the Cheyenne Laramie County Public 
Health provided data on the number of septic tank permits in Laramie 
County. 
Emissions from wastewater treatment plants occur from processes, gas 
combustion and flaring, and effluent discharge. The emissions factor during 
the process phase depends on whether the treatment method uses 
nitrification or denitrification. The wastewater treatment plant in Cheyenne 
uses nitrification and denitrification therefore their emission factor is 7 g 
N2O/person/year. Effluent discharge emissions factors are the same 
independent of process type. 
 
109 
 
Wastewater emissions for the following sources were calculated using GPC’s 
wastewater calculations: 
• Combustion gas emissions. 
• Flared gas emissions. 
• Process N2O emissions for WWTPs with nitrification and denitrification. 
• Fugitive N2O emissions from effluent discharge.  
• Emissions from septic tanks. 
• Emissions from sewage lagoons. 
GHG emissions from combusted gas = daily digester gas produced * % 
methane content in digester gas * natural gas energy density * 365 * emission 
factor / 1,000,000 Btu/MMBtu / 1,000 kg/mt * GWP 
GHG emissions from flared gas = daily digester gas flared * % methane 
content in digester gas * 662 g/m3 / 1,000,000 g/mt * 0.03 m3/ft3 * 365 * (1 - 
methane destruction efficiency) * GWP 
GHG emissions from process emissions = population served * industrial 
commercial discharge multiplier * emission factor / 1,000,000 g/mt * GWP 
GHG emissions from effluent discharge = total nitrogen discharged * days 
per year * molecular weight ratio of N2O to N2 * emission factor / 1,000 kg/mt * 
GWP 
GHG emissions from septic tanks = ((number of septic tanks * average 
household size) * CH4 production capacity * methane correction factor * days 
per year * amount of BOD5 treated per day) / 1,000 kg/mt * GWP 
No assumptions were made for the Wastewater Data tab. 
Industrial Processes 
The EPA Facility Level Information on Greenhouse gases Tool (FLIGHT) is used 
to collect data on industrial processes by county. Emissions from these 
activities are attributed to the MSA in the inventory and are not attributed to 
the City. Emissions from the Cheyenne Plant (from ammonia manufacturing 
and nitric acid production) are accounted for in the inventory. FLIGHT also 
collects data for stationary combustion and electricity generation facilities; 
however, those emissions are already accounted for in the Building Energy 
tab. Thus, data from FLIGHT on the emissions from Cheyenne Prairie 
Generating Station are included as information-only in the Building Energy 
Use tab to avoid double counting. The FLIGHT tool also reports landfill data, 
which is accounted for in the Waste and Recycling tab. 
Refrigerants 
 
110 
 
Refrigerants are not tracked by the City of Cheyenne or the MSA, however 
many buildings do have air conditioning. Therefore, Lotus estimated 
emissions from refrigerant loss based on the percent of commercial square 
footage that is refrigerated and standard assumptions and emission factors 
for commercial refrigerant leakage. Laramie County Assessor’s supplied the 
square footage data for the City and the MSA. The constants and emission 
factors used in the calculations are pulled from the IPCC.15 
GHG Emissions from Refrigerant Loss = % of square footage with 
refrigeration * square footage /300 sf/ton of cooling * amount of 
refrigerant/ton of cooling * 5% refrigerant loss / 1000 kg/metric ton * GWP 
Agriculture, Forestry, and Other Land Uses (AFOLU) 
Agriculture 
To calculate the emissions from livestock and agricultural practices within the 
Cheyenne MSA, Lotus used census data from the United States Department 
of Agriculture (USDA)16 and the EPA SIT Agriculture Module.17 
Several USDA census tables were used, including this Fertilizers and 
Chemicals Applied table in Figure 2. Lotus highlighted any data used from 
the tables in the GHG. The following tables are required: 
• Table 11. Cattle and Calves 
• Table 12. Hogs and Pigs 
• Table 13. Sheet and Lambs 
• Table 14. All Goats 
• Table 18. Equine 
• Table 19. Poultry 
• Table 40. Fertilizers and Chemicals Applied 
 
15 Source (IPCC): https://www.ipcc.ch/publications_and_data/ar4/wg1/en/ch2s2-10-2.html.  
16 United States Department of Agriculture. Census of Agriculture. 2022 Census Volume 1, 
Chapter 2: County Level Data. Wyoming. 
https://www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/AgCensus/2022/Full_Report/Volume_1,_Chapter_2_C
ounty_Level/Wyoming/  
17 United States Environmental Protection Agency. State Inventory Tool. Agriculture Module. 
Version 2024.1. https://www.epa.gov/statelocalenergy/download-state-inventory-and-
projection-tool  
 
111 
 
 
 
Figure 2. USDA Census data on fertilized acres in Wyoming and Laramie County. 
Calculations for urea fertilization and synthetic and organic fertilizer use 
come from the EPA SIT Agriculture Module. A copy of this spreadsheet is 
saved in the Cheyenne folder; however, the latest version should be 
downloaded with each GHG inventory update in case of emission updates. 
Figure 3 is a screenshot of the opening tab within EPA SIT. Make sure that all 
content is enabled to be able to click within the spreadsheet. Select 
Wyoming as the state and click the “Check/Uncheck All” button for each 
section category within that tab. This is a large spreadsheet so sometimes 
you need to do a slow double click for the program to register the action. 
 
Figure 3. Opening page of EPA SIT. 
To understand the CH4 and N2O emissions from manure management, first 
go to the “CH4 from Manure Management” tab. Scroll down to the year being 
considered in the GHG inventory and enter in the number of animals from 
the USDA Census for each animal group available. See Figure 4. Note that the 
number should be entered in the thousands of head so, for example, 48 
chickens would be entered as 0.048. Take the values from the metric tons of 
CH4 column and enter these into the blue cells in the GHG inventory under 
Manure Management heading. Extracting the N2O emissions from manure 
management is very similar to that of CH4. Go to the “N2O from Manure 
Management” tab and scroll down to the correct inventory year. The number 
Make sure Wyoming is 
 
Check all to use 
defaults for each 
category in the Control 
 
 
112 
 
of animals should transfer over from the CH4 tab, so just take the kg of N2O 
emissions and enter those into the blue cells in the GHG workbook. See 
Figure 5. The equation in the workbook will convert these emissions to metric 
tons. 
 
Figure 4. CH4 Emissions from Manure Management calculations in EPA SIT. 
 
Figure 5. N2O Emissions from Manure Management calculations in EPA SIT. 

 
113 
 
Then navigate to the Urea Fertilization tab. See Figure 6. Again, click the 
“Check All” button at the top to activate the default values. The orange cells 
should populate with a metric tons value. Use the most recent year’s value 
and enter into the GHG inventory. The EPA SIT value is for all of Wyoming so 
the equation in the GHG inventory takes the proportional amount for Laramie 
County using the values for fertilizer applied found in the USDA Census. 
 
 
Figure 6. EPA SIT calculations for urea fertilization in Wyoming. 
Next navigate to the Ag Soils-Plant-Fertilizer tab. Click the “Check All Boxes” 
button to use the default values and find the most recent year with data. 
Enter the circled fields from Figure 7 into the GHG inventory. Use the metric 
tons of N2O emissions instead of the MMTCO2e so that the most up to date 
global warming potentials can be applied in the GHG workbook. The direct 
and indirect N2O emissions proportioned of Laramie County from Wyoming 
using the same USDA census information as the urea fertilizer.  

 
114 
 
 
 
Figure 7. EPA SIT N2O emissions for fertilizers. 
Forestry and Land Use 
Laramie County 
Lotus used ICLEI’s Land Emissions and Removals Navigator (LEARN)18 tool to 
analyze Laramie County’s annual carbon sequestration from forests and trees 
outside of forests. Once at the website, Lotus selected Laramie County from 
the “Find Your County” dropdown list.
 
 
18 See: https://icleiusa.org/LEARN/  

 
115 
 
Lotus selected the most recent time period for the analysis. The LEARN tool 
analyzes land cover changes over 2-3-year time periods based on available 
land cover data layer availability. See screenshot below for available years for 
analysis. 
 
After the time period was chosen, Lotus selected a comparable municipality 
to analyze the sequestration potential of Cheyenne’s urban tree canopy. 
Casper, Wyoming was selected due to its proximity geographically and 
similar climate to Cheyenne. See the screenshot below. 

 
116 
 
 
In the downloaded spreadsheet, Lotus copy and pasted the third section of 
data that contained the emissions/removals and GHG Flux into the Cheyenne 
GHG inventory workbook.  
Cheyenne Community 
The same analysis was also run for the City of Cheyenne. Because this is a City 
boundary analysis, there is no need to put in the county name. Select “Upload 
File” and upload a shapefile of Cheyenne’s City boundary from your computer 
files. 
 

 
117 
 
Lotus selected the same time period for the City analysis as seen in the 
screenshot below. 
 
Lotus chose Casper, Wyoming as a comparable municipality again in the next 
step. See the screenshot below. 
 

 
118 
 
In the downloaded spreadsheet, Lotus copy and pasted the third section of 
data that contained the emissions/removals and GHG Flux into the Cheyenne 
GHG inventory workbook.  
Process Improvement Plan 
Every inventory sheds light on possible improvements for the next iteration. 
The Cheyenne team did an excellent job providing data, helping track down 
difficult datasets, and brainstorming data assumptions. Future inventories 
could benefit from the following process improvements: 
• Check in the future to see if Pine Bluffs Electric Utility is able to provide 
their energy usage data. 
• Consider finding a way to track residential wood usage so that estimates 
do not need to be used for emission calculations.  
• See if electric vehicle data are able to be tracked in the future; this is 
important in accurately estimating emissions. 
• Tracking down tonnage data for RAM trucking would improve the 
accuracy of waste emission estimates. Additionally, finding tonnage data 
for compost and recycling would improve those emission estimates. 
Conclusion 
The 2023 GHG emissions inventory provides the City of Cheyenne and the 
Cheyenne MSA with a robust and defensible update of carbon emissions with 
which to can be used to inform future policies and programs. Cheyenne can 
effectively monitor and track progress against carbon reduction goals and 
will be better informed when choosing specific sustainability efforts. 
Greenhouse gas emission inventories should be updated at regular intervals 
to capture changes over time, and the IMP contained herein, alongside the 
GHG emissions inventory workbook, will enable City staff to update GHG 
emissions in the future. 
 
  
 
Appendix A: Emission Factors 
See Table 4 for an overview of the emission factors that were used for calculations throughout the 
inventory. The Notes column provides details as to which emission factors need updated regularly.  
Table 4. Summary of Emission Factors. 
Stationary Energy Emission Factors—Electricity & Natural Gas 
Emission 
Source GHG Value Unit Source Notes 
Electricity  
CO2 
Black 
Hills: 
0.690 
Tri-State: 
0.649 
mt 
CO2/M
Wh 
mt 
CO2/M
Wh 
 
Email from Carmalee Rose from Black Hills 
Energy. See spreadsheet labeled "BHE 
Response to 2023 City of Cheyenne and 
Laramie County Usage Request" on file. 
See "Issue Brief Tri-State Carbon Rate_May 
2024" on file. 
Verify with each 
inventory. Likely 
that the CO2 
emission factor 
will change 
annually. 
CH4 0.00005 
mt 
CH4/M
Wh 
EPA's eGrid: eGRID 2024 summary tables, 
table 6, sub region RMPA. 
https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documen
ts/2024-02/ghg-emission-factors-hub-
2024.pdf 
Verify with each 
inventory. 
 
N2O 0.00000
6 
mt 
N2O/M
Wh 
Natural 
Gas CO2 0.005306 
mt 
CO2/the
rm 
2013 ICLEI US Community Protocol, 
Appendix C 
 
  
 
CH4 0.000001 
mt 
CH4/the
rm 
N2O 0.00000
01 
mt 
N2O/the
rm 
Stationary 
Diesel 
CO2 0.01 
mt 
CO2/gall
on 
 
 
2024 EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse 
Gas Inventories. 
https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documen
ts/2024-02/ghg-emission-factors-hub-
2024.pdf. Assumes distillate fuel oil number 
2 and that diesel is primarily used in 
generators by the industrial sector. 
     
CH4 0.00000
04 
mt 
CH4/gal
lon 
N2O 0.00000
01 
mt 
N2O/gal
lon 
Propane 
CO2 0.01 
mt 
CO2/gall
on 
 
 
2024 EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse 
Gas Inventories. 
https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documen
ts/2024-02/ghg-emission-factors-hub-
2024.pdf 
 
CH4 0.00000
03 
mt 
CH4/gal
lon 
N2O 0.00000
01 
mt 
N2O/gal
lon 
 
  
 
Wood 
Biogen
ic CO2 93.8 
kg 
CO2b/M
MBTU 
2024 EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse 
Gas Inventories. 
https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documen
ts/2024-02/ghg-emission-factors-hub-
2024.pdf 
Verify with each 
inventory 
CH4 7.2 
g 
CH4/M
MBTU 
N2O 3.6 
g N2O 
/MMBT
U 
Averag
e 
wood 
consu
mptio
n per 
house
hold 
69.6 
mmBtu 
/ 
househ
old 
Average btu used per household in west for 
wood as a primary heat found here: 
https://www.eia.gov/consumption/residenti
al/data/2015/c&e/pdf/ce7.2.pdf 
Transportation Emission Factors—Ethanol, Gasoline, and Diesel 
Emission 
Source GHG Value Unit Source Notes 
Gasoline 
CO2 8.78 kg 
CO2/gal 
EPA estimates 
(https://www.epa.gov/system/files/docume
nts/2023-
03/ghg_emission_factors_hub.pdf). 
Should remain 
constant but 
verify with each 
inventory. 
CH4 g/mile 
 
 
  
 
N2O Varies by 
vehicle 
Lotus analysis using EPA emission factors 
by vehicle make year and vehicle 
distributions. 
Diesel 
CO2 10.21 kg 
CO2/gal 
EPA estimates 
(https://www.epa.gov/system/files/docume
nts/2023-
03/ghg_emission_factors_hub.pdf). 
CH4 Varies by 
vehicle  g/mile 
 
Lotus analysis using EPA emission factors 
by vehicle make year and vehicle 
distributions. N2O 
Ethanol 
CO2 5.75 kg 
CO2/gal 
EPA estimates 
(https://www.epa.gov/system/files/docume
nts/2023-
03/ghg_emission_factors_hub.pdf). 
CH4 Varies by 
vehicle g/mile 
Lotus analysis using EPA emission factors 
by vehicle make year and vehicle 
distributions. N2O 
Transit Emission Factors 
Emission 
Source GHG Value Unit Source Notes 
Gasoline CO2 8.78 kg 
CO2/gal 
EPA Emission Factors for GHG Inventories: 
https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documen
ts/2024-02/ghg-emission-factors-hub-
2024.pdf. 
Should remain 
constant but 
verify with each 
inventory.  
 
  
 
CH4 0.044 
g 
CH4/mil
e Lotus analysis using EPA emission factors 
by vehicle make year and vehicle 
distributions. 
N2O 0.036 
g 
N2O/mil
e 
Aviation Emission Factors 
Emission 
Source GHG Value Unit Source Notes 
Jet fuel 
CO2 9.75 kg 
CO2/gal 
EPA Emission Factors for GHG Inventories: 
https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documen
ts/2024-02/ghg-emission-factors-hub-
2024.pdf. Should remain 
constant but 
verify with each 
inventory.  
CH4 0 
g 
CH4/ga
l 
N2O 0.3 
g 
N2O/ga
l 
Aviation 
Gasoline 
CO2 8.31 kg 
CO2/gal EPA Emission Factors for GHG Inventories: 
https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documen
ts/2024-02/ghg-emission-factors-hub-
2024.pdf. CH4 7.06 
g 
CH4/ga
l 
 
  
 
N2O 0.11 
g 
N2O/ga
l 
Off-Road Emission Factors 
Emission 
Source GHG Value Unit Source Notes 
Gasoline 
CO2 8.78 kg 
CO2/gal 
EPA Emission Factors for GHG Inventories: 
https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documen
ts/2024-02/ghg-emission-factors-hub-
2024.pdf. 
Should remain 
constant but 
verify with each 
inventory 
CH4 
Varies by 
equipme
nt type 
g/gallo
n 
Since it is unknown whether the 
equipment used is 2- or 4-stroke, the 
average emissions factor was used for both 
the Industrial/Commercial Equipment 
category and the Recreational Equipment 
category. 
N2O 
Diesel CO2 10.21 kg 
CO2/gal EPA Emission Factors for GHG Inventories: 
https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documen
ts/2024-02/ghg-emission-factors-hub-
2024.pdf. 
 CH4 Varies by 
equipme
nt type 
g/gallo
n  N2O 
Waste Emission Factors 
Emission 
Source GHG Value Unit Source Notes 
 
  
 
Municipal 
Solid 
Waste 
CH4 Varies N/A 
EPA FLIGHT (subpart HH) for the Cheyenne 
Landfill 
 
Documentation for Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions and Energy Factors Used in the 
Waste Reduction Model (WARM)_See 
Exhibit 6-7: CH4 Yield for Solid Waste 
Components. 
https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documen
ts/2024-
01/warm_management_practices_v16_dec.
pdf. 
Verify with each 
inventory. 
  
Composte
d Waste 
CH4 0.0005 
mt CH4/ 
ton 
waste 
Documentation for Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions and Energy Factors Used in the 
Waste Reduction Model (WARM): 
https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documen
ts/2024-
01/warm_management_practices_v16_dec.
pdf. Exhibit 4-3 and Exhibit 4-4. Emission 
factors are adjusted to from CO2e to CH4 
and N2O using AR4 values that EPA uses in 
their reports. 
 N2O 0.00022 
mt N2O/ 
ton 
waste 
Wastewat
er 
CH4 
Varies by 
treatme
nt 
Varies 
ICLEI’s U.S. Community Protocol for 
Accounting and Reporting of Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions (Community Protocol) – 
 
  
 
Treatment 
Facilities N2O 
Varies by 
treatme
nt 
Varies 
Appendix F: Wastewater and Water 
Emission Activities and Sources, Version 1.1, 
July 2013: http://icleiusa.org/ghg-protocols/.   
Septic 
Tanks CH4 0.6 CH4 
ICLEI’s U.S. Community Protocol for 
Accounting and Reporting of Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions (Community Protocol) – 
Appendix F: Wastewater and Water 
Emission Activities and Sources, Version 1.1, 
July 2013: http://icleiusa.org/ghg-protocols/.   
 
Appendix E: BAU Modeling
Methodologies
In This Appendix
 Introduction
 Business-as-usual Methodology
Strategy Impact Methodology

128 
Cheyenne Greenhouse 
Gas Modeling 
Methodology 
129 
Introduction 
This document details modeling assumptions for calculating greenhouse 
gases (GHGs) for Cheyenne’s 2026 Comprehensive Climate Action Plan 
(CCAP) impact model. 
This methodology document will detail modeling assumptions for the 
following scenarios: 
● Business-as-usual (BAU): The BAU is the modeled baseline for
expected emissions out to 2050. This model incorporates existing
policies, population growth, and economic growth and their estimated
impact on future emissions.
● Strategy impact: The strategy impact is the modeled emissions
reductions associated with a suite of strategies out to 2050. The suite of
strategies modeled were collaboratively chosen from the CCAP
mitigation strategies.
Protocols 
This analysis uses the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Policy and Action Standard. 
This protocol provides guidance for: 
• Determining what policies or drivers should be included in the baseline
state.
• Identifying impacted activities from modeled actions.
• Determining the boundaries of modeled actions.
130 
Business-as-usual Methodology
A BAU model was developed to forecast baseline GHG emissions in the 
Cheyenne MSA region from 2023 through 2050. The BAU models a forecasted 
baseline for GHG emissions and activity data assuming operations continue 
as they exist today with no additional implemented policies and no 
technological breakthroughs achieved. All emissions factors, outside of 
electric grid emissions, are assumed to remain constant over time. The results 
from the BAU model are used to compare GHG emission impacts from the 
proposed strategies in the CCAP. 
For each sector, GHG activity and emissions data were collected, calculated, 
and forecasted based on the 2023 CCAP GHG Inventory for the Cheyenne 
MSA region. 
Forecast parameters 
Key forecast parameters used to forecast activity data included population 
growth and non-residential square footage. Population growth is utilized to 
forecast residential activity data while non-residential square footage is 
utilized to forecast commercial and industrial activity data, as relevant. 
Key data sources 
• Population growth is obtained from the Wyoming Department of
Administration and Information’s Economic Analysis Division.
• Non-residential square footage growth from the Cheyenne MPO
Transportation Impact Fee Study Draft Report.
Sector-based forecast data 
Energy and buildings 
Residential electricity, natural gas, and propane activity data are forecasted 
based on population growth. Commercial and industrial electricity, natural 
gas, and propane activity data are forecasted based on non-residential square 
footage. Stationary diesel and wood consumption are assumed to remain 
constant over time due to uncertainty in how consumption will change in the 
future.  
It is assumed that all emission factors remain constant over time other than 
the electricity emissions factor. Utility-specific emissions reduction goals are 
taken into consideration to adjust the emissions factor applied to activity 
131 
data. The 
Cheyenne MSA is serviced by Tri-State, which aims to reduce 
emissions by 26% in 2025, 36% in 2026, 46% in 2027, and 80% by 2030 
compared to a 2005 baseline, and Black Hills Energy, which aims to reduce 
emissions by 40% by 2030 and 70% by 2040. 
Key data sources 
• Tri-State’s website is utilized to obtain the utility’s emissions reduction
goals. Issue briefs from Tri-State are utilized to understand current and
past emissions factors for carbon dioxide emissions.
• Lotus modified the Tri-State emission factor to include methane and
nitrous oxide emissions using emissions factors from the EPA’s eGrid
summary tables.
• Black Hills Energy 2024 Sustainability Report is utilized to obtain the
utility’s emissions reduction goals along with current and past
emissions factors.
Transportation 
Vehicle miles traveled (VMT) from on-road transportation is forecasted based 
on population growth. Activity and emissions from public transit, aviation, 
railways, and off-road equipment are assumed to remain constant over time 
due to uncertainty in how these sources will change over time. 
The forecast assumes a baseline rate of EV adoption in passenger vehicles 
over time, displacing the use of gasoline and diesel vehicles. Fuel efficiencies 
(i.e., miles per gallon or kWh per mile) are assumed to improve over time with 
technological improvements. 
Key data sources 
• RMI’s Energy Policy Simulator for Wyoming is utilized to estimate
passenger EV uptake over time. 
• Internal combustion engine fuel efficiency year-over-year
improvements are estimated from the Energy Information
Administration’s (EIA) Annual Energy Outlook.
• The National Laboratory of the Rockies Electrification Futures Study is
utilized to project EV efficiencies over time.
Other sectors 
Residential municipal solid waste, compost, and wastewater are projected 
based on population. Commercial municipal solid waste, and commercial 
132 
refrigerants a
re projected based on non-residential square footage. Emissions 
and activity from the Cheyenne Plant, agriculture, and forestry are estimated 
to remain constant due to uncertainty in how emissions will change over 
time. 
133 
Strategy Impact 
Methodology 
The strategy impact scenario models emissions reductions through 2050 
from mitigation strategies in the CCAP on top of the BAU results. The model 
was built to be flexible and based on user inputs including a target, a year to 
start implementation, and a year to reach the target. 
Transportation 
T1: Reduce cars on the road while ensuring it is safe to bike and 
walk. 
This strategy is modeled using a user-specified percent of vehicle trips that 
are two miles or less that are targeted to be shifted to walking and/or bicycle 
trips. It is assumed that only light-duty vehicle trips may be shifted so 
medium- and heavy-duty trips are excluded.  
The user specifies the target share of trips under two miles that are shifted to 
active transportation modes. Additionally, the user enters the start year and 
target year for when that target is reached. The target is linearly interpolated 
from the start year to the target year.  Avoided light-duty VMT is then 
calculated by multiplying each year’s target share of trips to shift by the total 
VMT from trips two miles or less.  
Avoided VMT is then distributed by vehicle and fuel type. The alternative fuel 
strategy (T2) is accounted for in this distribution to prevent double counting. 
The share of vehicle and fuel types after implementation of that strategy is 
calculated. Fuel and electricity use avoided due to mode shifting is then 
calculated from avoided VMT. Emissions reductions are then calculated from 
avoided VMT and fuel use. 
Key data sources 
• The 2022 National Household Travel Survey (NHTS) data is utilized to
determine the percentage of trips that are 2 miles or less, the average
length of those trips, and total vehicle trips in 2025. This data is filtered
to the Mountain MSA with less than 1,000,000 people.
134 
T2: Promote the adoption of alternative fuel vehicles. 
This strategy is modeled using a user-specified target share of vehicles on the 
road that will be electric vehicles (EVs) or plug-in hybrid vehicles (PHEVs). The 
model excludes medium- and heavy-duty vehicles and only focuses on light-
duty vehicle electrification.  
Some vehicle electrification is included in the BAU scenario. This strategy only 
accounts for impacts on top of any electrification in the BAU. The model 
linearly interpolates the user-entered target share of vehicles to be EVs and 
PHEVs between the entered start and target years. BAU electrification is 
subtracted from each year’s corresponding share to avoid double counting. 
Avoided internal combustion engine vehicle VMT is calculated using the 
additional target electrification after removing BAU adoption. This VMT is 
distributed across light-duty vehicle types using the vehicle type share from 
the GHG inventory. Avoided fuel usage and additional electricity use are 
estimated by applying fuel economy forecasts to corresponding vehicle 
types. Emissions reductions are then calculated by comparing avoided fossil 
fuel vehicle emissions to additional EV and PHEV emissions. 
Key data sources 
• Federal Highway Administration data for average annual VMT by
highway category and vehicle type is utilized to determine the average
VMT traveled by passenger vehicles.
• California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA)
assumptions are utilized to determine the average electric versus gas
fuel share in a PHEV.
T3: Increase connectivity across the county and across the 
region into Colorado and Nebraska. 
This strategy is modeled using a user-specific target shift in commuting 
habits from passenger vehicle to bus transit. This strategy includes 
commuters from Colorado and excludes commuters from Nebraska as 
Nebraska commuters were unknown or considered to be de minimis. A max 
percentage of modal shift is utilized to avoid overestimating potential 
impacts. This value is 23% per the CAPCOA Handbook for Western States. 
Trips attributable to the Cheyenne MSA from commuting trips starting and 
ending in Colorado are calculated by multiplying total light-duty vehicle trips 
by the following values: 
135 
• The share of v
ehicle trips that are commuting.
• The share of Laramie county workers who live in Colorado.
• The share of Laramie county residents who work in Colorado.
• The share of commute trips over 40 miles with a personal vehicle.
• The average share of workdays where commuting occurs.
VMT from these trips are calculated by multiplying impacted trips by the 
target share of trips to reduce, the two-way trip distance between Cheyenne 
and Fort Collins, and 50% (the share of cross-boundary trips that can be 
attributed to Cheyenne).  
Avoided VMT is distributed to light-duty vehicle and fuel types accounting for 
EV and PHEV adoption from strategy T2. Additional transit VMT is estimated 
by dividing avoided VMT by a bus load factor to estimate the difference in 
trips between single-occupancy vehicle trips and bus trips. Additional diesel 
fuel use is then estimated from this VMT. Increased emissions from additional 
transit trips are netted against reduced emissions from reduced passenger 
vehicle travel to determine emissions reduction. 
Key data sources 
• The 2022 NHTS data is used to determine the share of trips that are
from commuting, the share of commute trips over 40 miles with a
personal vehicle, the average share of workdays commuting occurs,
and the number of 2025 vehicle trips. This data is filtered to the
Mountain MSA with less than 1,000,000 people.
• The 2018 Wyoming Interstate and Intercounty Commuting Report is
used to determine the percent of Laramie County workers live in
Colorado and the percent of Laramie County residents who work in
Colorado.
• The Greenhouse Gas Protocol for Community-Scale Greenhouse Gas
Inventories is utilized to determine the VMT attributable to the
Cheyenne MSA from commuting trips starting or ending in Colorado.
• Google maps is utilized to determine number of miles between Fort
Collins, Colorado and Cheyenne, Wyoming.
• The CAPCOA handbook for Western States is utilized to set a cap for
modal shift percent from transit measures to avoid overestimating
possible impact.
136 
T4: Shift commuter patterns from single-occupancy vehicles to 
transit. 
This strategy is modeled by determining the total passenger vehicle person-
miles traveled based on a vehicle load factor and shifting a user-input target 
share of those person-miles to transit. This strategy is focused on local 
commuting patterns and excludes medium- and heavy-duty vehicle travel. A 
max percentage of modal shift is utilized to avoid overestimating potential 
impacts.  While this strategy is focused on commuter patterns, the model 
does not isolate commuter trips for this strategy as any improvements in 
transit are assumed to impact other trip types. The same avoided fuel use, 
additional transit activity, and emissions calculations approach as described 
for T3 is used for this strategy. 
Key data sources 
• ICLEI ClearPath 2.0’s Transition Elements Framework is utilized to
determine the average passenger vehicle and transit bus load factors.
• The CAPCOA handbook for Western States is utilized to set a cap for
modal shift percent from transit measures to avoid overestimating
possible impact.
Energy and buildings 
EB1: Increase energy efficiency and electrification in residential 
buildings. 
This strategy is modeled in three tiers: 
a) Building code improvements.
b) Electrification retrofits in existing homes.
c) Energy efficiency improvements in existing residential homes.
Building code improvements 
Building code improvements are modeled with a user-specified percent 
energy efficiency improvement in new homes as a result of energy code 
updates. Code-compliant new residential square footage is isolated from 
existing to determine emissions savings from reduced electricity and natural 
gas consumption using the 2018 International Energy Conservation Code 
(IECC) as the baseline. 
137 
Key data so
urces 
• Baseline energy consumption for new homes if they were built under
the 2018 baseline is estimated using an energy intensity factor from the
Department of Energy’s Energy Savings Analysis: 2018 IECC for
Residential Buildings.
• The National Laboratory of the Rockies’ (NLR) ResStock tool is used to
determine:
o The average square footage of a housing unit in Laramie County,
WY.
o The share of residential energy use that is electricity and natural
gas.
• The average code compliance percentage is obtained from a report
published by the Institute for Market Transformation.
Electrification retrofits in existing homes 
Electrification retrofits are modeled with a user-specified heat pump 
adoption rate in existing homes not impacted by updated code. The model 
uses a stock approach to isolate existing homes that are replacing equipment 
then applies the heat pump adoption percentage to these homes. Increased 
electricity emissions from heat pump adoption are netted against decreased 
natural gas emissions to determine emissions savings from this strategy. 
Key data sources 
• Equipment turnover rate is estimated from RMI’s Energy Policy
Simulator.
• The Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS) from the EIA is
used to:
o Estimate average annual fuel consumption for space and water
heating by fuel type.
o Average fuel splits by end use in residential homes.
• Equipment efficiencies to determine additional electricity consumption
from heat pump adoption are obtained from:
o NLR’s Building Energy Optimization (BEopt) tool.
o EIA minimum efficiency requirements.
o ENERGY STAR criteria.
Energy efficiency improvements in existing homes 
Energy efficiency in existing homes is modeled with a user-specified increase 
in efficiency. This increase in energy efficiency is applied to baseline electricity 
138 
and natu
ral gas consumption to determine decreased emissions from 
efficiency improvements. 
Key data sources 
No new data sources are used in this strategy. See the BAU section to see 
how baseline energy use for existing homes is calculated. 
EB2: Increase energy efficiency and electrification in 
commercial and industrial buildings. 
This strategy is modeled in three tiers: 
a) Building code improvements.
b) Electrification retrofits in existing commercial buildings.
c) Energy efficiency improvements in existing commercial buildings.
Building code improvements 
Building code improvements are modeled with a user-specified percent 
energy efficiency improvement in new commercial buildings as a result of 
energy code updates. Code-compliant new non-residential square footage is 
isolated from existing to determine emissions savings from reduced 
electricity and natural gas consumption using the 2018 IECC as the baseline. 
Key data sources 
• Baseline energy consumption for new non-residential square footage if
they were built under the 2018 baseline is estimated using an energy
intensity factor from the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory’s
Energy and Energy Cost Savings Analysis of the 2018 IECC for
Commercial Buildings.
• Share of commercial energy use that occurs from electricity and
natural gas is estimated from the NLR ComStock dataset for Wyoming,
filtered to climate zone 6B and buildings built from 2012-2018.
• The average code compliance percentage is obtained from a report
published by the Institute for Market Transformation.
Electrification retrofits in existing commercial buildings 
Electrification retrofits are modeled using a user-input percent of heating 
equipment replaced with electric equipment. The model uses a stock 
approach to isolate existing non-residential square footage that is replacing 
equipment then applies the heat pump adoption percentage to that square 
footage. Increased electricity emissions from heat pump adoption are netted 
139 
against dec
reased natural gas emissions to determine emissions savings 
from this strategy. 
Key data sources 
• Equipment turnover rate is estimated from RMI’s Energy Policy
Simulator.
• Data from the EIA Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey
(CBECS) is used to determine fuel usage by fuel type in commercial
heating and cooling equipment.
• Inventory data are used to derive energy use intensity rates to apply to
replaced equipment to calculate consumption changes.
• Equipment efficiencies to determine additional electricity consumption
from heat pump adoption are obtained from:
o NLR’s Building Energy Optimization (BEopt) tool.
o EIA minimum efficiency requirements.
o ENERGY STAR criteria.
Energy efficiency improvements in existing commercial buildings. 
Energy efficiency in existing commercial buildings is modeled with a user-
specified increase in efficiency. This increase in energy efficiency is applied to 
baseline electricity and natural gas consumption to determine decreased 
emissions from efficiency improvements. 
Key data sources 
No new data sources are used in this strategy. See the BAU section to see 
how baseline energy use for existing homes is calculated. 
EB3: Encourage adoption of clean energy 
This strategy is modeled as a user-defined increase in installed solar capacity 
(MW-DC) with user-defined start and target years. The strategy offsets 
electricity emissions from the grid with solar generated energy. 
Key data sources 
• Expected solar energy from installed solar capacity is obtained from the
NLR PVWATTS tool.
• Annual degradation rate of solar generation is applied from NLR’s
Annual Technology Baseline.
Waste and Water 
140 
WW1: Increase waste diversion. 
This strategy is modeled as an increase in the proportion of municipal solid 
waste that is recycled and composted. The user defines the target landfill 
diversion rate, start year, and year to reach the target diversion rate. Diversion 
rates are linearly interpolated between the start and year to reach the target. 
The model determines the baseline diversion rate using data from the 
inventory, then the strategy linearly increases diversion from the baseline to 
the target. This strategy focused on municipal solid waste and does not 
consider diversion of construction and demolition waste. It is also assumed 
that hard to divert items such as non-recyclable paper, used oil, anti-freeze, 
and other miscellaneous waste will continue to be landfilled in the future.  
Emissions reductions from decreased tonnage sent to the landfill and 
increased emissions from increased compost tonnage are considered to 
calculate the net emissions reduction achieved from diversion. The inventory 
reports emissions using the waste in place methodology while the model 
utilizes methane commitment to estimate reduced emissions. The percent 
decrease in emissions from the methane commitment method is applied to 
baseline emissions to determine waste in place reductions.  
Key data sources 
• Wyoming Solid Waste Diversion Study is used to categorize waste and
determine what tonnage is eligible for recycling or compost.
• Material emissions factors for landfilling and composting are obtained
from the EPA’s Waste Reduction Model (WARM).
• Oxidation and collection efficiency rates are obtained from landfill-
specific EPA FLIGHT reports. Where a factor was not available, defaults
from ICLEI’s U.S. Community Protocol are used.
Natural and working lands 
NWL3: Improve the management of natural spaces 
This strategy is modeled as an increase in preserved natural lands in 
Cheyenne’s MSA region. The user can define the target share of natural lands 
preserved, the year to begin preserving land, and the year to reach the 
preservation target.  
The share of natural lands preserved is set to at least 100%, meaning that 
natural lands are maintained and no additional land is preserved. An increase 
in land preservation, anything over 100%, results in a decrease in emissions 
141 
due to an in
crease in carbon sequestration. Sequestration emissions are 
estimated using a weighted average of natural land use types in Cheyenne 
from the inventory. Land types considered include forest, grasslands, and 
wetlands. 
Key data sources 
• ICLEI’s Land Emissions and Removals Navigator (LEARN) tool is used to:
o Determine baseline natural land area.
o Calculate a sequestration factor weighted by land use type.