 
 
MEMO 
TO:  Honorable Mayor and Members of City Council 
FROM:   Charles W. Bloom, AICP, Planning and Development Director 
SUBJECT: Report detailing Planning and Development Department findings in accordance 
with City Council Resolution No. 6489 regarding recommended amendments to 
the UDC that better balance smaller lot development and housing affordability 
considerations. 
DATE:  November 24, 2025 
 
On November 13, 2025, Planning and Development Department staff hosted a meeting with 
stakeholders regarding trees in response to Resolution No. 6489 directing the Planning 
Department to review the Unified Development Code and provide a recommendation to the 
Governing Body regarding the allowance of a greater variety of trees and smaller tree sizes in 
new residential developments. Specifically, the resolution directed the Planning and 
Development Department to recommend amendments to the UDC that better balance the City’s 
long-term tree canopy and environmental goals with the smaller lot development and housing 
affordability considerations. 
Eleven stakeholders and four Planning and Development Department staff attended the 
meeting. Additional realtors, representatives from Black Hills Energy, and a representative from 
the Laramie County Conservation District were also invited but were unable to attend. Mr. 
Hamilton had to depart early and did not participate in the entirety of the final discussion. 
Attendees were: 
Jeremy Hamilton, Realtor 
Jason Stephens, Gateway 
Construction  
Lee Martin, Landscape Architect 
Jacob Mares, State Forestry,  
Jackie Suntrip, Rooted in Cheyenne 
Ryan Magrum, owner, Magrum Tree 
Service 
Mark Ellison, City Forester 
Krista Gallardo, Big Bird Landscaping 
John Sayers, Monument Home Builders 
Jeanie Anderson-Shrednik, Parks and 
Greenway Planner (staff) 
Bryce Dorr, Board of Public Utilities 
Connor White, Planner II (staff) 
Erin Fagan, Planner II (staff) 
Charles Bloom, Planning and 
Development Director (staff)
 
The group agreed that the current Unified Development Code is workable and adequate for 
existing needs. Developers noted that small lots, small yards and planted areas, limited irrigated 
areas, and conflicts with water, sewer, shallow franchise utility lines, and utility boxes can make 
tree placement challenging, but not impossible. No concerns were noted based on the required 
street tree (canopy tree) compared to an ornamental tree as both can grow on a small lot and in 
similar soils and it was recognized that canopy trees may prove to be better for planting 
because they can adapt to their environment more easily and be less intrusive on nearby 
sidewalks and interfere less with nearby structures because they grow up, not out. 
Administrative options to allow for alternative tree planting in cases of overhead powerlines 
proved to be adequate and are accepted by utility companies with overhead lines.  
It was also noted that that sidewalk locations and construction timing affect where and when 
trees can be planted but do not prove to be an obstacle to street tree placement. Street tree 
installation cost was not identified as a barrier to housing affordability as the cost for tree 
installation is less than $1,000 which equates to less than 1/3 of 1% of the construction cost of a 
typical home constructed with 1,600 finished square feet of floor area.   
There was also consensus that understanding of street tree planting and maintenance 
requirements could be improved for both the public and internal stakeholders. Opportunities for 
improvement include public education, stronger interdepartmental communication, better-
defined expectations for developers, and enhanced resource materials. Recommended outreach 
is summarized below. 
Public Education 
There is a need for improved outreach on acceptable tree-related practices – both for residents 
and for the development community. This includes clear guidance on proper winter 
maintenance and winter watering, expectations for developers during construction, situations 
where flexibility can occur (overhead power lines or project completion in the winter) and 
reminders for builders as they approach project completion. Expectations for developers include 
ensuring that landscape plan submittals are provided in conjunction Engineering Plan Review 
submittals for new streets. Communicating these expectations early and consistently will 
improve understanding and compliance. 
Interdepartmental Coordination 
Strengthen collaboration with Engineering and the Board of Public Utilities to ensure consistent 
enforcement of code requirements including submittal of tree planting plans with civil 
engineering plans (as presently required) and better coordinate installation of utilities during 
construction.  
  
   
Page 3 of 3 
 
Inclement Weather Protocols 
Establish clear procedures outlining acceptable alternatives when weather conditions or other 
scenarios prevent tree planting, including how financial securities will be managed in such cases 
to not delay issuance of certificates of occupancy.    
Resource Materials 
Develop comprehensive informational pamphlets containing examples of appropriate tree 
species, spacing guidelines, photographs, and other relevant reference materials. These 
materials should expand beyond the names of the tree but should provide more information so 
the person planting the tree is aware of their mature height and spread and necessary 
separation requirements. The informational material should, when practical, include visual 
images.   
Recommendation  
The Planning and Development Department recommends that no changes be made to the 
Unified Development Code in response to Resolution No. 6489. Staff does note that 
informational materials should be provided and more easily accessible to builders, developers, 
homeowners, and the public to provide more education on tree planting and maintenance 
expectations and that interdepartmental communication be enhanced and resource material be 
more clear and more easily accessible to the public.    
Attachment  
Resolution No. 6489 
  

