 
2101 O’Neil Ave. · Cheyenne · Wyoming  
Phone 307.638 .4385  
www.plancheyenne.org  
 
 
MEMO  
TO: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
FROM: Christopher Yaney – MPO Director, Cheyenne MPO 
DATE: October 15, 2025 
SUBJECT: Resolution Certifying Connect 2050: Update to the Long-Range Metropolitan 
Transportation Plan (MTP) — Update to the Metropolitan Transportation and Future Land Use 
Plan of PlanCheyenne for the City of Cheyenne and the Cheyenne Urban Area   
______________________________________________________________________________ 
 
Dear Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council: 
 
The Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) respectfully submits for your review and 
consideration the resolution certifying Connect 2050: Update to the Long- Range Metropolitan 
Transportation Plan (MTP). This plan serves as the federally required long- range transportation plan for 
the Cheyenne Urbanized Area and represents an update to the PlanCheyenne Metropolitan Transportation 
and Future Land Use Plan. 
  
The Connect 2050 MTP outlines the community’s transportation vision through the year 2050 and provides 
the policy framework and project priorities necessary to guide multimodal transportation investments across 
the region. Developed in coordination with the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, the Wyoming 
Department of Transportation (WYDOT), the plan integrates transportation, land use, environmental, and 
economic development goals to support sustainable regional growth and mobility. 
 
Public participation was a critical component throughout the planning process, in accordance with the 
MPO’s adopted Public Participation Plan and federal planning requirements under 23 CFR 450. The MPO 
conducted popup event meetings, online surveys with comment s and reviews, online engagement, and 
agency coordination to ensure the plan reflects the needs and aspirations of the Cheyenne community. 
 
Adoption of this resolution will certify Connect 2050 as the official long-range transportation plan for the 
Cheyenne MPO area and as the transportation element of PlanCheyenne . Upon approval, the MPO will 
transmit the adopted plan and resolution to the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and Federal 
Transit Administration (FTA) for final acceptance. 
 
We appreciate your continued support and partnership in advancing a safe, efficient, and connected 
transportation system for the Cheyenne region. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Christopher Yaney 
MPO Director, Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization 
 
Attachments: 
• Resolution Certifying Connect 2050: Update to the Long- Range Metropolitan Transportation Plan 
(MTP) 
• Draft Connect 2050 Update to the Long-Range Metropolitan Transportation Plan 
 
 
 
RESOLUTION NO. __________ 
 
ENTITLED: "A RESOLUTION  ADOPTING CONNECT 2050 : UPDATE TO THE 
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AND FUTURE LAND USE PLAN 
OF PLANCHEYENNE FOR THE CITY OF CHEYENNE AND THE 
CHEYENNE URBAN AREA." 
 
WHEREAS, Wyo. Stat. Ann. § 9 -8-301 authorizes and directs each local government to 
develop and adopt a local land use plan;  
 
WHEREAS, Wyo. Stat. Ann. § 15-1-503 allows each incorporated municipality to adopt a 
master plan (comprehensive plan) for the physical development of the municipality; 
 
WHEREAS, 23 U.S.C. § 134(i)(1)(A) and § 134(i)(1)(B) require the Cheyenne 
Metropolitan Planning Organization (“MPO”) to prepare and update a metropolitan transportation 
plan with at least a twenty (20) year planning horizon, to be updated every five (5) years; 
 
WHEREAS, 23 CFR § 450.324 requires the Cheyenne MPO to develop a metropolitan 
transportation plan that includes both long-range and short-range strategies and actions leading to 
the development of an integrated, multimodal transportation system facilitating the eff icient 
movement of people and goods;  
 
WHEREAS, Connect 2050: Transportation Update to PlanCheyenne (“Connect 2050”) 
amends PlanCheyenne: Reflections and Progress  — The Land Use and Transportation Plan of 
PlanCheyenne, which was adopted by the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne by Resolution 
No. 6106 in December 2020;  
 
WHEREAS, Metropolitan Transportation Plans have a 5 -year life and Connect 2045  
transportation update for PlanCheyenne expires in December 2025, therefore, the Cheyenne MPO 
prepared a Connect 2050 ; Transportation update to PlanCheyenne which will be  adopted in 
December 2025; 
 
WHEREAS, the Cheyenne MPO retained Kimley -Horn and Associates November 12, 
2024, to develop the Connect 2050; 
 
WHEREAS, Connect 2050 was developed under the processes required by state law for 
the adoption and amendment of master plan (comprehensive plan); 
 
WHEREAS, Connect 2050 included a robust public involvement process which included 
approximately 641 people through open houses, focus groups, Superday event, "pop -up'' events, 
interactive maps, mass emails and on-line surveys for comments and reviews; 
 
WHEREAS, Connect 2050 was prepared with a Connect 2050 Steering Committee, and 
active involvement of the MPO Citizens' Advisory Committee and the MPO Technical Committee 
who has recommended adoption to the MPO Policy Committee; and 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, a public comment period was advertised on October 22, 2025, and  public 
hearings announced on October 23, 2025, which was conducted by the City of Cheyenne Planning 
Commission on November 3, 2025, Laramie County Planning Commission on November 13, 
2025, Board of County Commissioners on November 18, 2025, and the City Council Meeting 
November 24, 2025 and included the various means for citizens to review the proposed Connect 
2050 and to provide comments; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY 
OF CHEYENNE, WYOMING, that Governing Body hereby adopts the " Connect 2050: 
Transportation Update to PlanCheyenne" dated November 2025; and 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED , that the " Connect 2050: Transportation Update to 
PlanCheyenne" amends and replaces the Connect 2045: Transportation Update to PlanCheyenne 
Land Use and Transportation Plan and will be in effect for five years from its adoption by the MPO 
Policy Committee and will be used as a guide for the prioritization of all transportation modes in 
the City of Chyenne and the Cheyenne Urban Area;  
 
 
 
PRESENTED, READ AND ADOPTED THIS _______ DAY OF __________________, 
2025. 
 
 
__________________________________________  
Patrick Collins, Mayor 
 
(SEAL)  
 
 
ATTEST:  
 
____________________________________  
Kylie Soden, City Clerk 


DRAFT 
OCTOBER 2025
2 3
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAM
Christopher Yaney, Director, Project Manager
Jennifer Corso, Senior Planner, Deputy Project Manager
Athen Mores, Planner I
Charles Bloom, Planning and Development Director
Justin Arnold, Planning and Development Program Manager
Gisele Pacheco, Office Manager
CHEYENNE MPO TECHNICAL COMMITTEE
CHEYENNE MPO POLICY COMMITTEE
CONSULTANT TEAM
Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
Craig LaVoy
Tom Cobb
Charles Bloom
Julianne Monahan
Ryan Shields
Andrea Allen 
Molly Cook 
Justin Arnold
John Poelma
Betsey Hale 
Pat Rudd
Todd Eldrige
Tim Bradshaw
Jef McMann
Bryce Dorr
Sally Stainbank
Kristy Richardson
Matt Butler
Scott Sprakties
Amy Gorbey
Pamela Cypher
Ranae Tunison
Erin Johnson
Jeanie Anderson-
Shrednik
Vicki Bonds
Patrick Collins
Ralph Tarango 
Don Hollingshead
Tom Cobb
Charles Bloom
Justin Arnold
Erin Johnson
Molly Cook
Mark Wingate
Vicki Nemecek
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Introduction 4
2. Community Outreach 10
3. Previous Plans Review 14
4. Current and Future Demographics 22
5. Regional Roadways 28
6. Regional Bicycle and Pedestrian System 50
7. Regional Transit 60
8. Regional Aviation 64
9. Livability 66
10. Funding 74
11. Implementation Plan 82
12. System Performance Report 97
Appendices 103
Appendix A. Community Survey Results ..................................................................................... 104
Appendix B. PREVIOUSLY Programmed Projects ..................................................................... 105
Appendix C. Previously Recommended Projects .......................................................................106
Appendix D. Roadway Capital Project Prioritization .................................................................107
Appendix e. Active Transportation Project Prioritization ...................................................... 108
5
INTRODUCTION
0101
INTRODUCTION
BACKGROUND
The Cheyenne Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) is responsible for developing 
transportation policies and coordinating the various federal, state, and local agencies 
involved in long-range transportation planning for the Cheyenne region. Connect 2050 
serves as the Cheyenne region’s Long-Range Transportation Plan (LRTP). The LRTP is a 
25-year plan developed in conjunction with the City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, Wyoming 
Department of Transportation (WYDOT), the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), and the 
Federal Transit Administration (FTA).
What is an LRTP?
The LRTP provides the foundation for the development of a regional transportation  
system that accommodates the current and future needs of residents using all  
modes of transportation.
Figure 1. Study Area Map
STUDY AREA
The Cheyenne MPO encompasses 306 square miles and serves the City of Cheyenne and adjacent areas of 
Laramie County. Figure 1 shows the Cheyenne MPO’s planning area.
Source: Cheyenne MPO
6 7
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN INTRODUCTION
PLANNING PROCESS
WORKING PAPERS
Connect 2050 consisted of the following working papers covering different aspects of the plan in more detail:
GOALS AND PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Connect 2050 creates a roadmap for the region that enhances the overall wellbeing of the area and its 
residents while also complying with federal guidelines. The initial step involves determining the region’s 
goals for its transportation network. Input from the following sources were used to establish goals for the 
Cheyenne region:
 » Federal transportation goals established by the United States Department of Transportation (USDOT)
 » State transportation goals established by WYDOT
 » Previous goals from the Connect 2045 Plan, adopted in 2020
 » Public and stakeholder input
The identified goals of Connect 2050 are shown in Figure 3.
Figure 2. Connect 2050 Planning Process
Visioning and  
Conditions Assessment
Prioritized  
Transportation Projects
Range of Multimodal  
Improvements
Implementation Plan
1
3
2
4
Key activities in the planning process for  
Connect 2050 are shown in Figure 2.  
Connect 2050 included a(n):
 » Visioning and Conditions Assessment. The 
plan reviewed the MPO’s current mobility 
network conditions and identified project goals, 
objectives, and performance measures.
 » Range of Multimodal Improvements. The plan 
provides potential multimodal transportation 
projects throughout the region.
 » Prioritized Transportation Projects. The plan 
assessed the potential transportation projects 
against the plan’s goals and priorities to identify 
transportation projects with the highest need.
 » Implementation Plan. The plan forecasts 
available transportation capital funding, 
identifies potential funding strategies, and 
develops an action plan documenting how the 
LRTP recommendations may be implemented.
Existing and Future Conditions reviewed previous plans, documented existing and 
future demographics, assessed the existing transportation system, and updated 
to goals, objectives, and evaluation criteria.
Working Paper 1
Alternatives Development provides an update to the LRTP project list and maps 
of recommended transportation improvements.
Working Paper 2
Alternatives Prioritization includes prioritization of the projects identified in 
Working Paper 2 with planning-level cost estimates.
Working Paper 3
Implementation Plan includes a forecast of available transportation capital 
funding for the 2025-2050 time-period, identify potential funding strategies,  
and develop an action plan for how the recommendations may be implemented.
Working Paper 4
Figure 3. Connect 2050 Goals
SAFETY
Transportation facilities provide safe travel options for all  
transportation modes.
GROWTH
Stimulate growth in the economy by providing a transportation system that 
accommodates current and future demand for the movement of residents, 
visitors, and goods.
CHOICES
Provide travel choices that are accessible, safe, and comfortable to all 
travelers, promote local mobility, and reduce the impacts of transportation on 
the environment and neighborhoods.
EFFICIENCY
Optimize the use and maintenance of existing infrastructure to make prudent 
investments in the transportation network to maintain system predictability.
CONNECTIVITY
Develop and maintain a multimodal transportation system that provides 
direct, continuous, and safe connections between local and regional 
destinations and services.
RESILIENCY
Design transportation facilities and networks that are secure and resilient to 
impacts from manmade or natural disasters.
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
8 9
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN INTRODUCTION
Alignment with State Goals
The WYDOT LRTP established six state goals for the state’s transportation system. Table 2 shows how the 
Connect 2050 goals align with the state transportation goals.
Performance Measures
The following performance measure recommendations aid the Cheyenne MPO in tracking progress to  
reach the Connect 2050 goals. These performance measures align with WYDOT’s State Transportation 
Improvement Plan and the Wyoming Highway Safety Improvement Plan. Applicable performance  
measures are shown in Table 3. 
Alignment with Federal Goals
The USDOT Strategic Plan FY 2022-2026 established six strategic goals for the country’s transportation 
system. USDOT’s strategic goals include:
SAFETY
Make our transportation system safer for all people. Advance a future without transportation-related serious 
injuries and fatalities.
ECONOMIC STRENGTH AND GLOBAL COMPETITIVENESS
Grow an inclusive and sustainable economy. Invest in our transportation system to provide American workers 
and businesses reliable and efficient access to resources, markets, and good-paying jobs.
EQUITY
Reduce inequities across our transportation systems and the communities they affect. Support and engage 
people and communities to promote safe, affordable, accessible, and multimodal access to opportunities and 
services while reducing transportation-related disparities, adverse community impacts, and health effects.
CLIMATE AND SUSTAINABILITY
Tackle the climate crisis by ensuring that transportation plays a central role in the solution. Substantially 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and transportation-related pollution and build more resilient and 
sustainable transportation systems to benefit and protect communities.
TRANSFORMATION
Design for the future. Invest in purpose-driven research and innovation to meet the challenges of the present 
and modernize a transportation system of the future that serves everyone today and in the decades to come.
ORGANIZATIONAL EXCELLENCE
Strengthen our world-class organization. Advance the Department’s mission by establishing policies, 
processes, and an inclusive and innovative culture to effectively serve communities and responsibly steward 
the public’s resources.
Table 1 shows how the Connect 2050 goals align with the federal goals established in the USDOT  
Strategic Plan.
Table 1. Connect 2050 Alignment with Federal Goals
Table 2. Connect 2050 Alignment with State Goals
Table 3. WYDOT Performance Measures
Performance Measure Current 
Condition Target
Percentage of Interstate Pavements Classified as in Good Condition 53.7 40.0
Percentage of Interstate Pavements Classified as in Poor Condition 16.2 5.0
Percentage of Non-Interstate NHS Pavements in Good Condition 47.6 40.0
Percentage of Non-Interstate NHS Pavements in Poor Condition 20.4 10.0
Interstate Travel Time Reliability 99.9 96.0
Non-Interstate NHS Travel Time Reliability 97.5 88.0
Truck Travel Time Reliability Index 1.21 1.28
Rate of Fatal Crashes 1.79 1.35
Rate of Serious Injury Crashes 8.26 5.0
Federal Goals Connect 2050 Goals
Safety Growth Choices Efficiency Connectivity Resiliency
Safety
Economic Strength and 
Global Competitiveness
Equity
Climate and 
Sustainability
Transformation
Organizational 
Excellence
State Goals Connect 2050 Goals
Safety Growth Choices Efficiency Connectivity Resiliency
Keep people safe on the 
state transportation system
Serve our customers
Take care of all physical 
aspects of the state 
transportation system
Develop and care for  
our people
Respectfully perform our 
lawful responsibilities
Exercise good stewardship 
of our resources
Source: Cheyenne MPO Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
11
COMMUNITY OUTREACH
COMMUNITY 
OUTREACH0202
OUTREACH SUMMARY
Through working with the community during the public engagement, the project team were 
able to get feedback on their concerns and area improvements that they would like to see. 
They were also able to rank their goal priorities for the plan. Through the interactive map 
and the in-person engagement, they were able to leave comments on spot and segment 
projects. All of these insights helped inform the project development and the prioritization 
phases of the plan.
IN-PERSON ENGAGEMENT
BIKE TO WORK DAY
Bike to Work Day is an annual event hosted by the City of Cheyenne to 
promote walking and biking to work. The project team hosted a booth 
at the After Work Party at Freedom’s Edge Brewing and Ace’s Range. 
Staff had display boards and handed out flyers with project information 
and links to the project website, interactive map, and online survey.
Meaningful 
conversations and 
interactions with 
15 individuals
PEDESTRIAN AND CYCLIST SAFETY WORKSHOP
Cheyenne MPO staff led a pop-up event at the Cheyenne Public Safety 
Center in partnership with Wyoming Pathways to support safer streets 
for pedestrians and bicyclists. 
The event had a 
smaller turnout, 
which provided 
an opportunity for 
a few meaningful 
interactions.
SUPERDAY
Superday is an annual celebration that kicks off July as National Parks 
and Recreation Month and is hosted by the City of Cheyenne Community 
Recreation and Events Department to promote local recreational 
activities. The project team hosted and staffed a booth at the event with 
display boards and handed out flyers with project information and links 
to the project website, interactive map, and online survey.
Meaningful 
conversations and 
interactions with 
111 individuals
12 13
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN COMMUNITY OUTREACH
Social Media
Project information was disseminated through the existing MPO social media channels that the public is 
already familiar with. These channels were utilized to keep the public informed about the project and to 
provide links to the survey and interactive map. The intent of this advertisement strategy was to present the 
facts and point people to the project website.
VIRTUAL ENGAGEMENT
Project Website
A project-specific website was available throughout the planning process showing the Connect 2050 purpose, 
up-to-date information on the project, and a link to an interactive map and survey. This allowed the public to 
be able to access project information at their convenience.
Project Survey
A community-wide survey was developed to help gather feedback on the recommendations presented and 
prioritize upcoming projects and project goals. In total, 92 responses were received. A full inventory of the 
survey responses can be found in Appendix A.
Survey Response Themes
Key takeaways and themes of the survey responses included:
PLANNING PRIORITIES
 » Over half of survey respondents ranked Safety as the most important planning goal
 » Growth and Connectivity tied for the second most important planning goal
 » Survey respondents ranked Resiliency as the least important planning goal
Interactive Map
An interactive map was developed to show recommended spot and segment improvement locations. Users 
were given the ability to choose a recommended project location to provide feedback. The public was given 
the opportunity to include a new comment, view other respondents’ comments, and like/dislike the draft 
project recommendations shown. The interactive map was linked through the project website and QR codes 
leading to the interactive map were included on all in-person event boards and flyers. Figure 4 shows the 
projects on the interactive map.
Figure 4. Interactive Map
Source: Kimley Horn
15
PREVIOUS PLANS REVIEW
0303
PREVIOUS 
PLANS REVIEW
PREVIOUS PLANS REVIEW
A review of previous planning efforts encompassing the study area provided a baseline understanding 
of relevant goals and strategies. Previous plans in the region and their resulting recommendations are 
summarized below.
Connect 2045
Adopted in December 2020, Connect 2045 is the previous 
LRTP for the Cheyenne MPO. The plan identified transportation 
investments necessary for MPO’s planning area through 2045 
and includes recommendations for roadway, transit, and 
active transportation infrastructure. Connect 2045’s goals 
were developed using input from federal and state goals for 
transportation investment, previous goals for the transportation 
system in the Cheyenne region, and public and stakeholder input. 
The Connect 2045 Goals are outlined below.
SAFETY Transportation facilities provide safe travel options for all residents and 
visitors.
GROWTH
Stimulate growth in the economy, development, and tourism by providing a 
transportation system that accommodates current and future demand for 
the movement of residents, visitors, and goods.
INTEGRATION
Integrate transportation and land use decisions to create and preserve 
neighborhoods that promote vibrant community character and encourage 
active living.
CHOICES
Provide travel choices that are accessible to all travelers, promote local 
mobility, and reduce the impacts of transportation on the environment and 
neighborhoods.
EFFICIENCY
Optimize the use of existing infrastructure and opportunistic funding 
options to make prudent investments in the transportation network to 
maintain system predictability.
CONNECTIVITY
Develop and maintain a multimodal transportation system that provides 
direct, continuous, and safe connections between local and regional 
destinations and services.
RESILIENCY Design transportation facilities and networks so they are secure and 
resilient to impacts from manmade or natural disasters.
MAINTENANCE Extend the life of the transportation system and promote fiscal 
responsibility by emphasizing maintenance over system expansion.
16 17
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN PREVIOUS PLANS REVIEW
WYDOT College Drive Planning and Traffic Study
In 2023, WYDOT conducted a corridor study to identify and address future needs and 
deficiencies along College Drive/Wyoming State Highway 212 (WYO 212), from Interstate 25 
(I-25) to Campstool Way. The study recommended short-term (2030) and long-term (2045) 
traffic congestion and safety improvements.
Laramie County Transportation Impact Fee Study
Completed in April 2025, the Cheyenne MPO conducted an impact fee study to determine 
the impact fees that should be imposed on new development in unincorporated Laramie 
County to meet transportation infrastructure demands. The resulting transportation 
impact fees recommended by the study are determined by development’s land use and 
estimated vehicle trips per unit. Although the transportation impact fee service area is 
in unincorporated Laramie County, infrastructure can be funded county-wide using the 
impact fee funds.
Cheyenne Passenger Rail Station Site Selection Study
The Cheyenne MPO developed the Passenger Rail Station Site Selection Study to identify 
potential locations for a future station to serve the planned Front Range Passenger Rail 
service. The draft recommendations include a station site close to downtown Cheyenne 
to leverage existing infrastructure and services and that the MPO stays engaged with the 
Front Range Passenger Rail District and other partners as the project progresses.
West Crow Creek Greenway Plan
The West Crow Creek Greenway Plan is an ongoing plan that aims to 
develop a preferred alignment and 35% design, including major roadway 
crossings, for the West Crow Creek Greenway between Martin Luther 
King Jr. Park and Freedom Elementary School. The plan will identify the 
community’s vision, recommend an accessible and efficient greenway, 
and advance the greenway towards construction.
Safe Routes to School Plan
The Cheyenne MPO Safe Routes to School (SRTS) Plan Update is in progress and presents 
recommendations for each school in the metro area. It includes a strategy toolbox 
outlining methods that have been successful in improving safe routes to school across 
the country. The strategy toolbox is organized into categories known as the six E’s: 
Engagement, Equity, Encouragement, Education, Evaluation, and Engineering. Strategies 
include, programs, events, suggested walking and biking routes, safety campaigns, and 
infrastructure improvements.
Southwest Drive Corridor Study
The Southwest Drive Corridor Study developed a conceptual plan for the redesign of 
Southwest Drive from West Lincolnway to College Drive. The Study aims to address traffic 
flow concerns due to the railroad and the commercial truck traffic along the corridor. The 
Study made roadway and active transportation recommendations along Southwest Drive, 
Broken Arrow Road, Woodenshoe Drive and Lindblom Court, and Swan Ranch Road.
Van Buren Avenue Corridor Study
The Van Buren Avenue Corridor Plan assessed Van Buren Avenue from Dell Range 
Blvd to US 30 to address current and future deficiencies and needs along the corridor. 
The plan resulted in short, mid, and long-term recommendations for the corridor, 
including resurfacing improvements, active transportation improvements, intersection 
enhancements, and roadway reconstruction.
Cheyenne Transit Development Plan
The Cheyenne Transit Development Plan (TDP) provided a plan for how to better serve 
the community’s transit needs emphasizing efficient use of resources, recognizing 
funding limitations and potential new funding sources, incorporating new concepts for 
transit service delivery, and providing flexibility for implementation. The five-year plan 
recommended implementation of fixed-route service in addition to microtransit, extended 
service hours, and increased frequency.
Powderhouse Road Corridor Study
The Powderhouse Road Corridor Study analyzed Powderhouse Road, from Dell Range Blvd 
to US 85 to assess current and future traffic and drainage conditions as well as develop 
planning-level construction drawings and cost estimates. Recommendations include 
centerline realignment, active transportation improvements, and lighting improvements.
Kiwanis (East) Park Greenway  
Underpass and Drainage Plan at the UPRR
The Kiwanis (East) Park Greenway Underpass and Drainage Plan at the Union Pacific 
Railroad (UPRR) Study identified a route for the Greater Cheyenne Greenway through 
the park and railroad and explored the potential for reducing stormwater build up along 
the UPRR Embankment. The Study recommended drainage improvements along the 
embankment and in the park. The proposed greenway was conceptually designed around 
East Park, and to connect to Kiwanis Park.

18 19
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN PREVIOUS PLANS REVIEW
Municipal Complex Pedestrian Routing Plan
The Municipal Complex Pedestrian Routing Plan provides a vision for intuitive and 
safe pedestrian connections between destinations within the Municipal Complex 
and adjacent properties. The Plan assessed the current complex and parking 
to develop framework concepts that were assessed by the public. Following 
engagement, a final plan was developed for pedestrian improvements.
Cheyenne Area Master Plan Community Plan
The Cheyenne Area Master Plan Community Plan provides an updated vision for the city in 
conjunction with the MPO. The plan covers the current and future land use and strategies 
that include developing a connected and diverse transportation network. These strategies 
provided options for the recommendations for annual reporting for roadways, transit, and 
active transportation.
Cheyenne Parks & Recreation Master Plan
The Cheyenne Parks and Recreation Master Plan is a plan that acts as a guide for the 
City in the development of parks, green spaces, recreational facilities and community 
programs. The plan provides lists of improvements all throughout the city that range from 
capital improvements, to policy and operational.
Transit Connection Feasibility Analysis:  
Northern Colorado - Southern Wyoming
The Transit Connection Feasibility Analysis studied the potential of transit connections 
between the North Front Range region of Colorado and the Cheyenne metropolitan area. 
The Study resulted in recommended alternatives to connect Colorado to Wyoming.
East Pershing Boulevard Corridor Study
The East Pershing Boulevard Corridor Study analyzed East Pershing Boulevard from US 
30 to Christensen Road. The Study reviewed current and future traffic demands along the 
corridor and developed a conceptual design for the future of East Pershing Boulevard to 
meet the needs of the community. Short- and long-term recommendations included active 
transportation improvements, traffic control changes, and intersection improvements.
Walterscheid Boulevard Reconstruction Plan
The Walterscheid Boulevard Reconstruction Plan developed a conceptual plan for the 
reconstruction and widening of Walterscheid Boulevard from Deming Drive to College 
Drive that meets the future mobility needs of residents and businesses along the corridor. 
Based on future conditions and constraints of the corridor, recommendations include 
roadway and intersection improvements, complete street improvements, drainage 
improvements, and utility modifications.
Converse Avenue Improvement Plan
The Converse Avenue Improvement Plan aimed to develop preliminary design and cost 
estimates for improvements along Converse Avenue from Dell Range Boulevard to the 
Carlson Street extension. Recommendations aim to enhance mobility and safety for 
all users to serve existing and future land use and traffic growth projections. The plan 
identified typical sections for the corridor, right-of-way and access management, speed 
limits, active transportation facilities, and utilities improvements.
Whitney Road Corridor Plan
The Whitney Road Corridor Plan developed a comprehensive plan for Whitney Road from 
US 30 to Beckle Road/Storey Boulevard. The plan developed planning-level designs that 
improve roadway and intersection safety and address drainage issues along the corridor.
PROGRAMMED AND RECOMMENDED INVESTMENTS
The region’s previous plans and programs were reviewed to identify previously recommended and 
programmed (funded, short-term) investments. From the reviewed sources, 159 previously recommended 
projects and 38 programmed projects were identified. 
Programmed Projects
Programmed projects are shown in 
Figure 5 and detailed in Appendix B. 
These projects include:
 » 9 intersection/interchange 
improvements
 » 6 new greenway projects
 » 1 new roadway
 » 11 bicycle/pedestrian enhancements
 » 1 railroad enhancement
 » 8 roadway/bridge reconstruction 
projects
 » 2 roadway widening projects
Previously Recommended Projects
Previously recommended projects are shown in Figure 6 and 
detailed in Appendix C. These projects include:
 » 41 intersection/interchange improvements
 » 7 drainage mitigation projects
 » 2 new greenway projects
 » 39 new roadways
 » 3 new sidewalk/crosswalk projects
 » 5 new transit route projects
 » 8 bicycle/pedestrian enhancements
 » 1 railroad enhancement
 » 5 roadway/bridge reconstruction projects
 » 16 roadway widening projects
 » 3 sidewalk/bridge widening projects
 » 3 high-priority safe routes to school projects
 » 21 projects that fall into multiple improvement categories
Source: Cheyenne MPO Source: Cheyenne MPO
20 21
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN PREVIOUS PLANS REVIEW
Figure 5. Programmed Transportation Improvement Projects Figure 6. Previously Recommended Projects

23
CURRENT AND FUTURE DEMOGRAPHICS
0404
CURRENT 
AND FUTURE 
DEMOGRAPHICS
CURRENT DEMOGRAPHICS
Population, employment, and land use help define transportation needs.
Figure 8. Current Population Density (2023) Figure 10. Current Employment Density (2023)
Population
Figure 7 shows the region’s population growth from 
2010 to 2023 by age cohort. The fastest growing age 
cohort is residents 65 and older. 
Population Density
Current population densities are shown in Figure 8. 
Population density was obtained from the regional 
travel demand model (TDM). The highest population 
densities are found north of the airport and in 
neighborhoods surrounding downtown Cheyenne.
Employment
In 2023, Laramie County had 52,950 workers in the 
labor force. From 2010 to 2023, the region’s labor 
force increased by 3,931 residents. Figure 9 shows 
historical labor force totals in the region from 2010 
to 2023.
Employment Density
Current employment densities, from the regional TDM, 
are shown in Figure 10. Employment is highest in and 
around downtown Cheyenne. Employment density is 
also notable on the Dell Range Boulevard Corridor 
from Powderhouse Road to Converse Avenue.
Figure 7. Laramie County Population by Age
Less than 15 15 to 64 65 and Older
Figure 9. Residents in the Labor Force (2010-2023)
49.019
52,765 52,950
2010 2020 2023
Source: Cheyenne MPOSource: Cheyenne MPO
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
24 25
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN CURRENT AND FUTURE DEMOGRAPHICS
Land Use
The current land use designations for the Cheyenne MPO are shown in Figure 13. Much of the urban area is 
designated for residential, with clusters of commercial or mixed-use development in downtown, along the 
Dell Range Boulevard corridor, and along the South Greeley Highway (US 85) corridor south of downtown. 
There are also major industrial areas along the two interstate corridors and the Francis E. Warrent Air Force 
Base encompasses a large portion of western Cheyenne.
Figure 13. Existing Land Use
FUTURE DEMOGRAPHICS
Forecasted Population Growth
The Cheyenne MPO planning area is expected to grow by around 550 people per year, reaching a population 
of 115,541 by 2050. This projected growth can be seen in Figure 11. Figure 14 shows the forecasted population 
growth from 2023 to 2050 according to the regional TDM.
Forecasted Employment Growth
In 2023, the Cheyenne MPO area had around 40,000 wage and salary jobs. The total number of jobs are 
expected to grow to around 59,500 jobs by 2050 with many of these growth areas anticipated to be added 
along the I-25 and I-80 corridors. Figure 15 shows the forecasted employment growth from 2023 to 2050.
COMMUTING TRENDS
The transportation system supports 
commuters in their daily travel. Of 
commuters, 81% drive alone. 
The region of the Cheyenne MPO is a 
major employer beyond its boundary. 
Over 13,000 people commute into the 
Cheyenne MPO region to work and 
9,343 people travel out of the region 
to work. Figure 12 shows the commute 
flows within the region.
Figure 11. Cheyenne MPO Population Projections
Figure 12. Study Area Commute Flow
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
Source: Wyoming Department of Administration and Information
Source: Cheyenne MPO
26 27
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN CURRENT AND FUTURE DEMOGRAPHICS
Figure 14. Forecasted Population Growth (2023-2050) Figure 15. Forecasted Employment Growth (2023-2050)
Source: Cheyenne MPOSource: Cheyenne MPO
29
REGIONAL ROADWAYS
REGIONAL 
ROADWAYS0505
ROADWAY AND TRAFFIC PERFORMANCE
The core of the transportation network for the region is the roadway system. The Cheyenne MPO’s roadway 
network acts as the backbone to the region, accommodating all modes of travel. 
Regional Roadway System
The FHWA recommends categorizing  
the roadway network into the 
hierarchical functional classification 
system based on the characteristics  
of the roadway and level of service 
 it is intended to provide. The  
services intended for each  
functional classification is shown  
to the right. The complete 
functional classification roadway 
network for the Cheyenne MPO 
region is shown in Figure 16.
Figure 16. Cheyenne Roadway Functional Classification
PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL
slower speeds than principal arterials, often 
provides connections between principal arterials
MINOR ARTERIAL
MAJOR COLLECTOR
MINOR COLLECTOR
LOCAL ROADWAY
INTERSTATE
collects traffic from local roads,  
distributes to arterials
collects traffic from local roads,  
distributes to arterials
provides access to land, little or no through traffic
high speeds and long, uninterrupted travel
full access control, high speed travel
Source: Cheyenne MPO
30 31
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL ROADWAYS
Current Traffic Volumes and Congestion
Daily traffic columns in the region are shown in Figure 17. High traffic columns are found on major roadways 
near the airport and rail yards. Most roadways within the Cheyenne MPO are supporting less than 2,500 
vehicles per day (VPD). The highest traffic volumes in the region are provided in Table 5. 
Level of Service
Current traffic congestion levels in the 
Cheyenne MPO region were analyzed using 
level of service (LOS), a measure that rates 
the performance of the roadway network in 
terms of the degree of traffic congestion. 
This measure uses the letters ‘A’ through 
‘F’, with an A being the least congestion 
and F being the most. The grading system 
is depicted in the graphic to the right.
Figure 18 shows the current LOS on major 
roads in 2050, based on the volume to 
capacity (V/C) ratio of daily modeled 
volumes in the regional TDM compared 
to the roadway capacity. Most roadways 
operate at LOS A or B. There are no 
roadway segments operating at a  
failing LOS.
Figure 17. Existing Traffic Volumes Figure 18. Existing Modeled LOS
Source: Utah Department of Transportation
Table 5. Highest Traffic Volumes
Roadway From To Daily Traffic (VPD)
Yellowstone Road Central Avenue Dell Range Boulevard 31,742
Dell Range Boulevard Grandview Avenue Converse Way 27,550
Lincolnway Central Avenue Warren Avenue 27,336
College Drive Campstool Way 12th Street 27,317
Dell Range Boulevard Yellowstone Road Seminoe Road 24,401
Source: Cheyenne MPOSource: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
32 33
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL ROADWAYS
FREIGHT
The freight network is comprised of 75 miles of roadway. The identified freight routes primarily follow the 
major arterial network, with several routes that circulate near the UPRR and interstate corridors. The rail 
yard acts as a major hub for the freight routes, with roadways stretching east, south, and west. Figure 20 
shows the designated freight routes within the MPO.
Future Traffic Volumes and Congestion
Figure 19 shows the forecasted LOS on major roads in 2050 with only funded projects included in the model 
network. Most roadways are still anticipated to operate at an acceptable LOS, although some segments are 
anticipated to reach an LOS E or F by 2050. Roadway segments that are anticipated to operate at LOS E or F in 
2050 are shown in Table 6. Figure 19. Forecasted 2050 Modeled LOS
Figure 20. Designated Freight Network
Table 6. Forecasted Congested RoadwaysRoadway From To 2023 LOS 2050 LOS
N Greeley Hwy Fox Farm Rd I-80 C F
S Greeley Hwy Country West Rd College Dr B F
I-180 I-80 Eastbound Ramp I-80 Westbound Ramp B F
I-25 Northbound Ramp I-25 Central Ave D F
I-25 Southbound Ramp Central Ave I-25 D F
College Dr Tom Bauman Dr Allison Rd B F
Pershing Blvd Roundabout 19th St D F
Division Ave Nation Rd College Dr - E
12th St College Dr Adams Ave D E
College Dr S Greeley Hwy (US 85) Sweet Grass Dr B E
Fox Farm Rd Morrie Ave Ave C-2 B E
Fox Farm Rd Turk Ave Ave C-4 B E
College Dr I-80 12th St B E
Greeley Hwy Allison Rd Fox Farm Rd B E
Greeley Hwy Nation Rd Country West Rd B E
Walker Rd Central Ave Hynds Blvd C E
Figure 19. Forecasted 2050 Modeled LOS
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
34 35
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL ROADWAYS
ROADWAY SAFETY
Crash history for the Cheyenne MPO region transportation network was analyzed using data provided by 
WYDOT for the most recent five-year period available, 2019 to 2023. Figure 21 shows crashes by year from 
2019 to 2023. The number of crashes over the five-year period stayed relatively consistent, increasing by just 
21 crashes. Figure 22 shows the injury severity of all crashes in the region from 2019 to 2023. Figure 23 shows 
the locations of fatal and serious injury crashes between 2019 and 2023.
Figure 23. Crashes by Severity (2019-2023)
Figure 21. Crashes per Year Figure 22. Crashes by Severity
Roadways with the highest crash density include:
 » Intersection of Converse Ave, Pershing Blvd, 
and 19th St
 » Dell Range Blvd from Ridge Rd to 
Powderhouse Rd
 » Central Ave/Warren Ave and Lincolnway 
Intersections
Roadways with multiple fatal 
crashes include:
 » Lincolnway
 » College Dr
 » I-80
 Property Damage Only  
 Suspected Serious Injury   
 Suspected Minor Injury  
 Possible Injury   Fatal Injury
Source: WYDOT
Source: WYDOT
Source: WYDOT
36 37
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL ROADWAYS
POTENTIAL ROADWAY CAPITAL PROJECTS
A total of 104 potential roadway capital projects were identified during the project development process 
and were categorized by type. The roadway capital projects are shown geographically in Figure 24 and the 
projects are listed in the following subsections. Sources for each project reviewed are denoted by:
1. Connect 2050 existing and future  
conditions analysis
2. Connect 2045
3. College Drive Planning and Traffic Study
4. Converse Avenue Improvement Plan
5. Regional travel demand model
6. East Park Greenway Underpass & Drainage Plan
7. Van Buren Avenue Corridor Plan
8. Cheyenne MPO Safe Routes to School Update
9. Cheyenne Passenger Rail Station Site Selection 
Study
Figure 24. Potential Roadway Capital Projects
104 potential projects
9
Bridge and Drainage 
Improvements
12
Intersection 
Improvements
2
Access 
Management
61
New Roadway 
Connection
8
Roadway 
Reconstruction
12
Roadway 
Widening
Source: Cheyenne MPO
38 39
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL ROADWAYS
Potential Bridge and Drainage Improvements
There are nine potential bridge and drainage projects, shown in Table 7.
Table 7. Potential Bridge and Drainage Improvements
Potential  
Project ID
Primary 
Route From/At Project Description Source
 106.  9th St Bridge Reconstruction 9th St Crow Creek
Reconstruct bridge, add 
greenway, mitigate drainage 
issues
2
 117.  I-80/Clear Creek Drainage 
Improvements I-80 Clear Creek Mitigate drainage issues 2
 119.  Campstool Rd Drainage 
Improvements
Campstool 
Rd Crow Creek Mitigate drainage issues 2
 120.  Prairie Ave Drainage 
Improvements Prairie Ave Dry Creek Mitigate drainage issues 2
 121.  Education Dr Drainage 
Improvements
Education 
Dr Dry Creek Mitigate drainage issues 2
 122.  Hilltop Dr Drainage 
Improvements Hilltop Dr Dry Creek Mitigate drainage issues, add 
greenway 2
 123.  Campstool Rd Drainage 
Improvements
Campstool 
Rd Dry Creek Mitigate drainage issues, add 
greenway 2
 124.  Seminoe Rd Drainage 
Improvements Seminoe Rd Dry Creek Mitigate drainage issues 2
 126.  Lincolnway Drainage 
Improvements Lincolnway East of 
Henderson Dr
Mitigate drainage issues, add 
greenway 2
Potential Access Management Improvements
There are two potential access management improvement projects, which are shown in Table 9.
Table 9. Potential Access Management Improvements
Potential  
Project ID
Primary 
Route From/At To Project Description Source
 42.  College Drive Improvements College 
Dr I-25 Parsley 
Dr
Access management, 
intersection improvements, 
RR grade separation
3
 43.  College Drive Improvements College 
Dr
Parsley 
Blvd US 85
Access management, 
intersection improvements, 
ped/bike enhancements
3
Potential Intersection Improvements
There are 12 potential intersection improvement projects, shown in Table 8.
Table 8. Potential Intersection Improvements
Potential  
Project ID
Primary 
Route From/At Project Description Source
 1.  I-25 and Central Ave Capacity 
Improvements I-25 Central Ave
Capacity improvements for I-25 
and Central Ave interchange, 
including adjacent intersections 
at Bishop Blvd and Walker Rd
1
 36.  Converse Ave/ Dell Range Blvd 
Capacity Improvements
Converse 
Ave
Dell Range 
Blvd Improve intersection capacity 2
 46.  I-80/Roundtop Interchange 
Improvements I-80 Roundtop 
Rd
Improve interchange, widen 
underpass to 5 lanes 2
 47.  I-25/I-80 Interchange 
Improvements I-25 I-80 Reconstruct interchange 2
 87.  Yellowstone Rd and Dell Range 
Blvd Capacity Improvements
Yellowstone 
Rd
Dell Range 
Blvd Capacity improvements 2
 90.  Pershing Blvd and Concord Rd/
Logan Ave Realignment
Pershing 
Blvd
Concord 
Rd/Logan 
Ave
Realign intersection 2
 95.  Dell Range Blvd and College Dr 
Capacity Improvements
Dell Range 
Blvd College Dr Improve intersection capacity 2
 105.  I-80/Berwick Dr Interchange I-80 Berwick Dr New interchange 2
 107.  College Dr Curve Realignment College Dr Four Mile 
Rd
Realign curve to four-legged 
intersection 2
 110.  I-25/Randall Ave Capacity 
Improvements I-25 Randall Ave Widen northbound off-ramp to 
four lane approach 2
 111.  I-80/US 85 Capacity 
Improvements I-80 US 85 Widen eastbound off-ramp to 
two lanes 2
 127.  Fox Farm Rd and Morrie Ave 
Intersection Improvements
Fox Farm 
Rd
Morrie Ave/
Ave C
Reconstruct intersection, ped/
bike enhancements 2
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
40 41
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL ROADWAYS
Potential New Roadway Connections
There are 61 potential new roadway connection projects, which are shown in Table 10.
Table 10. Potential New Roadway Connections
Potential  
Project ID
Primary 
Route From/At To Project Description Source
 8.  Division Ave Roadway 
Connection Division Ave Wallick Rd College Dr New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 1
 9.  Iron Mountain Rd  
Roadway Connection
Iron 
Mountain Rd Whitney Rd Christensen 
Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 10.  Christiansen Rd 
Roadway Connection
Christiansen 
Rd
Riding Club 
Rd
Iron 
Mountain Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 11.  Riding Club Rd 
Roadway Connection
Riding Club 
Rd Ridge Rd Whitney Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 12.  Four Mile Rd Roadway 
Connection Four Mile Rd Braehill Rd Whitney Rd New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
 13.  Four Mile Rd Roadway 
Connection Four Mile Rd Christensen 
Rd Reese Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 14.  Mountain Rd Roadway 
Connection Mountain Rd Wild Bluff Storey Blvd New three-lane roadway 2
 16.  Chief Washakie Ave 
Roadway Connection
Chief 
Washakie 
Ave
Storey Blvd Four Mile Rd New three-lane roadway, 
new greenway 2
 17.  Frontier Mall Dr 
Roadway Connection Cutoff Rd Frontier Mall 
Dr Storey Blvd New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
 18.  Rue Terre Roadway 
Connection Rue Terre Dead End Carlson St New three-lane roadway 2
 20.  Carlson St Roadway 
Connection Carlson St Powderhouse 
Rd
Converse 
Ave
New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
 21.  Fort Laramie Trl 
Roadway Connection
Fort Laramie 
Trl Prairie Ave Storey Blvd New three-lane roadway 2
 25.  Berwick Dr Roadway 
Connection Berwick Dr Wallick Rd I-80 New two-lane roadway 
and RR overpass 2
 26.  Berwick Dr Roadway 
Connection Berwick Dr I-80 I-25 New two-lane roadway 2
 27.  Parsley Blvd Roadway 
Connection Parsley Blvd Terry Ranch 
Rd College Dr New three-lane roadway 2
 28.  Division Ave Roadway 
Connection Division Ave Dayshia Ln Wallick Rd New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
 29.  Wallick Rd Roadway 
Connection Wallick Rd US 85 High Plains 
Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 30.  Wallick Rd Roadway 
Connection Wallick Rd Parsley Blvd Division Ave New three-lane roadway 2
 31.  Terry Ranch Rd 
Roadway Connection
Terry Ranch 
Rd US 85 Loving Trail New three-lane roadway 2
Potential  
Project ID
Primary 
Route From/At To Project Description Source
 32.  Ave C Roadway 
Connection Ave C
Current 
North Dead 
End
Dayshia/
Loving Trail
New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
 33.  High Plains Rd 
Roadway Connection
High Plains 
Rd I-25 US 85 New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
 34.  Powderhouse Rd 
Roadway Connection
Powderhouse 
Rd
Iron 
Mountain Rd US 85 New three-lane roadway 2
 35.  Converse Ave 
Roadway Connection
Converse 
Ave Storey Blvd Columbia Dr New three-lane roadway 2
 49.  York Ave Roadway 
Connection York Ave Wallick Rd Apple St New three-lane roadway 2
 50.  York Ave Roadway 
Connection York Ave Dayshia Ln High Plains 
Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 51.  New N-S Collector 
Roadway Connection
New N-S 
Collector
Terry Ranch 
Rd
New E-W 
Collector New three-lane roadway 5
 52.  New N-S Collector 
Roadway Connection Parsley Blvd High Plains 
Rd College Dr New three-lane roadway 5
 53.  New E-W Collector 
Roadway Connection
New E-W 
Collector
High Plains 
Rd
New N-S 
Collector New three-lane roadway 5
 54.  New N-S Collector 
Roadway Connection Parsley Blvd Terry Ranch 
Rd
High Plains 
Rd New three-lane roadway 5
 55.  Remington Dr 
Roadway Connection
Remington 
Dr
High Plains 
Rd Troyer Dr New three-lane roadway 2
 56.  Bridger Peak Rd 
Roadway Connection
Bridger Peak 
Rd
Clear Creek 
Pkwy
High Plains 
Rd
New three-lane roadway, 
interstate overpass 5
 57.  Apple St Roadway 
Connection Apple St New N-S 
Collector Division Ave New three-lane roadway, 
interstate overpass 2
 58.  Julianna Rd Roadway 
Connection Julianna Rd US 85 Sweetgrass 
Dr
New three-lane roadway, 
interstate overpass 2
 60.  Allison Rd Roadway 
Connection Allison Rd Ave C West  
Cul-de-Sac New three-lane roadway 2
 61.  Allison Rd Roadway 
Connection Allison Rd College Dr Lummis Dr New three-lane roadway 2
 62.  Fox Farm Rd Roadway 
Connection Fox Farm Rd College Dr Allison Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 63.  Lummis Dr Roadway 
Connection Lummis Dr College Dr Campstool 
Rd
New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
 65.  Burlington Trl 
Roadway Connection
Burlington 
Trl Lummis Dr Industrial Rd New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
 66.  High Plains Rd 
Roadway Connection
High Plains 
Rd US 85 College Dr New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
 67.  Sweetgrass Dr 
Roadway Connection
Sweetgrass 
Dr
High Plains 
Rd Murray Rd New three-lane roadway 2
Table 10 Continued. Potential New Roadway Connections
Source: Cheyenne MPO
42 43
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL ROADWAYS
Potential Roadway Reconstruction Projects
There are eight potential roadway reconstruction projects, which are shown in Table 11. 
Table 11. Potential Roadway Reconstruction Projects 
Potential  
Project ID
Primary 
Route From/At To Project Description Source
 59.  Allison Rd 
Reconstruction Allison Rd US 85 Ave C Reconstruct roadway 2
 89.  5th St Improvements 5th St Deming Dr Morrie Ave Improve as collector 2
 104.  Windmill Rd 
Reconstruction Windmill Rd Pershing 
Blvd
Rock 
Springs St
Reconstruct roadway, add 
greenway 2
 112.  Southwest Dr 
Reconstruction
Southwest 
Dr College Dr Lincolnway Reconstruct to collector, 
mitigate drainage issues 2
 113.  Tranquility Rd 
Reconstruction
Tranquility 
Rd
Powderhouse 
Rd
Converse 
Ave Reconstruct to collector 2
 118.  US 85 Drainage 
Improvements US 85 I-80 5th St
Mitigate drainage 
issues, improve 5th St 
intersection
2
 125.  Henderson Dr 
Drainage Improvements
Henderson 
Dr
Homestead 
Ave Nationway Mitigate drainage issues, 
add greenway 2
 174.  Round Top Rd 
Roadway Improvement
Round Top 
Rd
Happy Jack 
Rd Arabian Ln
Improve roadway to rural 
minor arterial cross 
section with 8’ shoulders
2
 182.  Harriman Rd 
Roadway Improvement Harriman Rd Jenny Lynn 
Rd I-80
Improve roadway to rural 
minor arterial cross 
section with 8’ shoulders
1
Potential  
Project ID
Primary 
Route From/At To Project Description Source
 68.  Murray Rd Roadway 
Connection Murray Rd Ave C Goodnight 
Trl
New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
 69.  Murray Rd Roadway 
Connection Murray Rd Prairie Gold 
Ln Lummis Dr New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
 70.  Nation Rd Roadway 
Connection Nation Rd Ave C Sweetgrass 
Dr
New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
 71.  Cirrus Dr Roadway 
Connection Cirrus Dr Murray Rd College Dr New three-lane roadway 2
 72.  Cumulus Dr Roadway 
Connection Cumulus Dr High Plains 
Rd Lummis Dr New three-lane roadway 2
 73.  New N-S Collector 
Roadway Connection
New N-S 
Collector Cumulus Dr Lummis Dr New three-lane roadway 1
 74.  Beckle Rd Roadway 
Connection Beckle Rd Reese Rd Westedt Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 75.  Van Buren Ave 
Roadway Connection
Van Buren 
Ave Sullivan St Four Mile Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 76.  Rock Springs St 
Roadway Connection
Rock 
Springs St Moran Ave Grove Dr New three-lane roadway 2
 77.  Ridge Rd Roadway 
Connection Ridge Rd Riding Club 
Rd
Iron 
Mountain Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 78.  Veta Dr Roadway 
Connection Veta Dr Roundtop Rd Berwick Dr New three-lane roadway 2
 79.  Horizon Dr Roadway 
Connection Horizon Dr Roundtop Rd Lincolnway New three-lane roadway 2
 80.  New N-S Collector 
Roadway Connection
New N-S 
Collector Horizon Dr Happy Jack 
Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 81.  Broken Arrow Rd 
Roadway Connection
Broken 
Arrow Rd College Dr Swan Ranch 
Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 82.  New N-S Collector 
(East) Roadway Connection
New N-S 
Collector 
(East)
Berwick Dr Happy Jack 
Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 83.  New N-S Collector 
(West) Roadway 
Connection
New N-S 
Collector 
(West)
Berwick Dr Happy Jack 
Rd New three-lane roadway 2
 84.  New E-W Collector 
Roadway Connection
New E-W 
Collector Roundtop Rd Berwick Dr New three-lane roadway 2
 101.  Bridger Peak Rd 
Roadway Connection
Bridger Peak 
Rd Berwick Dr Cleark Creek 
Pkwy New three-lane roadway 2
 102.  Gannett Peak Dr 
Roadway Connection
Gannett 
Peak Dr Berwick Dr Cleark Creek 
Pkwy New three-lane roadway 2
 116.  Christiansen Rd 
Roadway Connection
Christiansen 
Rd
Iron 
Mountain Rd US 85 New two-lane roadway 2
 128.  Swan Ranch Rd 
Roadway Connection
Swan Ranch 
Rd
Southwest 
Dr Parsley Blvd New three-lane roadway, 
Add Greenway 2
Table 10 Continued. Potential New Roadway Connections
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
44 45
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL ROADWAYS
Potential Roadway Widening Projects
There are 12 potential roadway widening projects, which are shown in Table 12.
Table 12. Potential Roadway Widening Projects
Potential  
Project ID
Primary 
Route From/At To Project Description Source
 2.  College Dr Widening College Dr Fox Farm Rd Lincolnway Widen to 7 lanes 1, 2
 3.  12th St Widening 12th St College Dr Adams Ave Widen to 5 lanes 1, 2
 4.  US 85 Widening US 85 Artesian Rd I-80
Widen to 6 lanes, 
access control, 
active transportation 
enhancements
1, 2
 5.  Fox Farm Rd Widening Fox Farm Rd Walterscheid 
Blvd College Dr Widen to 3 lanes 1, 2
 6.  College Dr Widening College Dr US 85 High Plains 
Rd
Widen to 5-lanes, access 
management, continuous 
sidewalk
1, 3
 7.  College Dr Widening College Dr Lummis Dr Fox Farm Rd
Widen to 5-lanes, access 
management, continuous 
sidewalk
1, 3
 24.  US 30 Widening US 30 Westedt Rd Archer Pkwy Widen to 3 lanes, Add 
Greenway 2
 37.  Roundtop Rd Widening Roundtop Rd Otto Rd I-80 Widen to 5 lanes 2
 44.  Powderhouse Rd 
Widening
Powderhouse 
Rd Storey Blvd Iron 
Mountain Rd
Widen to 3 lanes, Add 
Greenway 2
 48.  York Ave 
Improvements York Ave Apple St College Dr Widen to 3 lanes, ped/bike 
improvements 2
 93.  Parsley Blvd Widening Parsley Blvd College Dr Ames Ave Widen to 3 lanes, add 
greenway 2
 114.  Whitney Rd Widening Whitney Rd Dell Range 
Blvd Storey Blvd Widen to 3 lanes, Add 
Greenway 2
ROADWAY CAPITAL PROJECT PRIORITIZATION
The potential roadway capital projects were prioritized to determine which projects would be the most 
advantageous for investment during the implementation of Connect 2050. Prioritizing these potential projects 
will help the Cheyenne MPO and its member agencies allocate their resources efficiently to achieve the best 
outcomes for the region.
Performance Measures
The project team collaborated with Cheyenne MPO to determine the appropriate weighting for project scoring. 
One weighting scheme was developed for projects within an urban environment (Figure 25) and another was 
developed for projects within a rural environment (Figure 26). Tailoring the weighting schemes to either rural 
or urban settings helps avoid favoring either urban or rural projects by having a single prioritization scheme.
Figure 25. Urban Performance Measure Weighting
Figure 26. Rural Performance Measure Weighting
 Safety and Security   Operational Efficiency   Preservation and Resiliency   
 Livability and Economic Growth   Multimodal Integration
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
46 47
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL ROADWAYS
Evaluation Criteria
To analyze potential investments based on the Connect 2050’s goals, each priority is supported by a set of 
evaluation criteria. These criteria allow the potential projects to be measured with quantifiable metrics. The 
evaluation criteria is shown below in Figure 27.
Safety and Security
Operational 
Efficiency
Preservation and 
Resiliency
Livability and 
Economic Growth
Multimodal 
Integration
 » Fatal/Serious Injury Crashes
 » Minor/Possible Injury Crashes
 » Property Damage/Unknown Crashes
 » Pedestrian and Bicycle Crashes
 » 2019 Daily V/C Ratio
 » No Build Daily V/C Ratio
 » Build Out Daily V/C Ratio
 » Project is within a Known Flooding Zone
 » Average Pavement Condition Index (PCI) Value
 » Project is within a Major Growth Area
 » Proximity to a Major Activity Center
 » Project includes Pedestrian and Bicycle Accommodations
 » Project is on a Planned Bicycle Route
 » Project is on a Freight Route
 » Project is on a Transit Route
Roadway Capital Project Unit Costs
Planning-level cost estimates were generated for each transportation project type for use in the prioritization 
process. While these unit costs provide a planning-level cost, additional study or design will be needed for 
each project to develop more detailed cost estimates that will be used for programming construction funds. 
All unit costs were developed in partnership with Cheyenne MPO staff and included the following sources:
 » Previous project costs from completed consultant team projects
 » Cheyenne MPO Metropolitan Transportation Improvement Program costs
The unit costs for roadway capital projects are shown in Table 13. 
Improvement Description Unit Cost  
(2025 $) Unit
Widen roadway Construct one additional lane on existing 
roadway $3,520,000 Lane-mile
Roadway resurfacing Resurface and re-stripe existing roadway $500,000 Lane-mile
New roadway Construct new roadway $3,900,000 Lane-mile
Curb and gutter Install curb and gutter on both sides of the 
roadway $1,440,000 Mile
New/reconstruct bridge Construct new bridge $520 Square-foot
New traffic signal Install new traffic signal $1,100,000 Intersection
Railroad overpass Grade separate at-grade railroad crossing $40,752,000 Location
Table 13. Roadway Capital Project Unit Costs
Figure 27. Evaluation Criteria
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
48 49
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL ROADWAYS
Figure 28. Roadway Capital Projects by Prioritization
Roadway Capital Projects Prioritization Results
Roadway capital projects are stratified by priority level of high, medium, or low based on their priority score 
after being assessed by the roadway capital prioritization framework. All roadway capital projects are shown 
in Figure 28 categorized by their priority level. Detailed roadway capital prioritization results can be found in 
Appendix D. 
Source: Cheyenne MPO
51
REGIONAL BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN SYSTEMS
REGIONAL 
BICYCLE AND 
PEDESTRIAN 
SYSTEM
0606
GREENWAYS AND BICYCLE INFRASTRUCTURE
The Greater Cheyenne Greenway is a paved pathway that serves the City of Cheyenne and the surrounding 
county. The greenway bounds I-25 in the northwest, Christensen Road in the east, and College Dr in the south. 
There are isolated segments near the city’s boundary that do not connect to the Greater Cheyenne Greenway, 
including along Storey Blvd and segments south I-80 near Johnson Junior High School. 
The existing on-street bicycle network is primarily made up of bike routes/shared roadways, bike lanes, and 
shouldered roadways. On-street bike facilities are concentrated surrounding downtown Cheyenne. Some 
existing bicycle routes in east Cheyenne are disconnected from routes connecting to downtown. Gaps in the 
greenway and bicycle networks make it difficult to move throughout the city via bicycle.
The Greenway and bicycle infrastructure are shown in Figure 29.
Figure 29. Cheyenne MPO Greenway and Bicycle Infrastructure
Source: Cheyenne MPO
52 53
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN SYSTEMS
Figure 30. Existing Sidewalk Network
PEDESTRIAN INFRASTRUCTURE
Cheyenne has a relatively complete sidewalk network, shown in Figure 30. The region has 458.89 miles of 
sidewalk. Sidewalk infrastructure’s separation from the road varies throughout the region. Sidewalks that 
lack separation from motor vehicle traffic may be less comfortable for certain populations, including young 
children, the elderly, and individuals with mobility device.
BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
From 2019 to 2023, 135 pedestrian and bicycle-involved crashes occurred, representing 1.8% of all crashes. 
Of the 135 crashes, 12 were fatal crashes (8.9%) and 13 were suspected serious injury crashes (9.6%). Figure 
31 shows the location of pedestrian and bicyclist crashes. Active transportation crashes are most dense in 
Cheyenne’s core, bounded by Pershing Boulevard, Snyder Avenue, I-80, and College Drive.
Figure 31. Bicycle and Pedestrian Safety Trends
Source: Cheyenne MPO Source: WYDOT
54 55
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN SYSTEMS
POTENTIAL BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PROJECTS
There are 42 potential bicycle and pedestrian projects. Active transportation projects identified in the study 
area are shown in Figure 32 and Table 14.
Figure 32. Potential Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects
Table 14. Potential Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects
Potential  
Project ID
Primary 
Route From/At To Project Description Source
 15.  Mountain Rd 
Greenway Mountain Rd Plain View 
Rd Wild Bluff Streetscape, ped/bike 
enhancements, add greenway 1
 40.  Missile Dr 
Improvements Missile Dr Lincolnway I-25
Streetscape, ped/bike 
enhancements, greenway 
underpass
2
 91.  Lincolnway 
Improvements Lincolnway Reed Ave House Ave Ped/bike enhancements 2
 94.  Dell Range Blvd 
Improvements
Dell Range 
Blvd
Yellowstone 
Rd College Dr Ped/bike/drainage 
enhancements 2
 115.  Pershing Blvd 
Improvements
Pershing 
Blvd Evans Ave Logan Ave Ped/bike enhancements 2
 129.  East Park 
Greenway
East Park 
Greenway
Whitney Rd/
Echo Star Dr
Pershing 
Blvd New greenway 6
 130.  Van Buren 
Ave Pedestrian 
Improvements
Van Buren 
Ave US 30 Dell Range 
Blvd New detached sidewalks 7
 131.  Lincolnway 
Greenway Lincolnway Kelley Dr Omaha Rd Add Greenway underpass 2
 132.  Yellowstone Rd 
Pedestrian and Bike 
Enhancements
Yellowstone 
Rd
Dell Range 
Blvd Four Mile Rd Add Pedestrian and bicycle 
enhancements 2
 133.  SRTS Central 
Schools
Cumulative projects within 1/2 mile of the school to improve the safety for 
pedestrians and bicyclist 8
 134.  SRTS East 
Schools
Cumulative projects within 1/2 mile of the school to improve the safety for 
pedestrians and bicyclist 8
 135.  SRTS South 
Schools
Cumulative projects within 1/2 mile of the school to improve the safety for 
pedestrians and bicyclist 8
 138.  West Four Mile 
Rd Greenway Four Mile Rd Yellowstone 
Rd Braehill Rd Add Greenway along Four Mile 
Rd 2
 139.  East Four Mile 
Rd Greenway Four Mile Rd Whitney Rd Christensen 
Rd
Add Greenway along Four Mile 
Rd 2
 140.  Canyon Rd 
Greenway Canyon Rd Storey Blvd Big Sky Trail Add Greenway along Canyon 
Rd 2
 141.  South 
Powderhouse Rd 
Greenway
Powderhouse 
Rd
Dell Range 
Blvd Storey Blvd Add Greenway along southern 
portion of Powderhouse Rd 2
 142.  Prairie Ave 
Greenway Prairie Ave Powderhouse 
Rd Cutoff Rd Add Greenway along Prairie 
Ave 2
 145.  East Storey 
Blvd/Highland Rd 
Greenway
Storey Blvd/ 
Highland Rd College Dr Whitney Rd
Add Greenway along eastern 
Storey Blvd and Highland Rd 
and through the open lot
2
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
56 57
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN SYSTEMS
ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION PROJECT PRIORITIZATION
Evaluation Criteria
Active transportation projects were prioritized based on a simpler set of evaluation criteria which are 
described in Figure 33 below.
Number of Active Transportation Facilities, Crossings, and Transit Stops Enhanced
Number of Arterials and Collectors Connected by the Project
Address Gaps in Active Transportation Infrastructure
Active Transportation Propensity
Potential  
Project ID
Primary 
Route From/At To Project Description Source
 146.  Christensen Rd 
Greenway
Christensen 
Rd
Hereford 
Ranch Rd Four Mile Rd Add Greenway along 
Christensen Rd 2
 147.  South Whitney 
Rd and Railroad 
Greenway
Whitney Rd Baldwin Dr East Park 
Greenway
Add Greenway along Whitney 
Rd 2
 148.  Whitney Rd 
Greenway Whitney Rd Pershing 
Blvd
Dell Range 
Blvd
Add Greenway along Whitney 
Rd 2
 151.  Grove Dr/T-Bird 
Dr Greenway Grove Dr Pershing 
Blvd
Rock 
Springs St Add Greenway along Grove Dr 2
 153.  Windmill Rd 
Greenway Windmill Rd Rock 
Springs St
Dell Range 
Blvd
Add Greenway along Windmill 
Rd 2
 156.  South Airport 
Connection 3rd Ave Evans Ave Airport Pkwy Add Greenway around 
cemetery connecting 3rd Ave 2
 157.  Antelope Ave/ 
I-25 Greenway
Antelope 
Ave/I-25
Pershing 
Blvd Storey Blvd Add Greenway along I-25 2
 159.  Henderson Dr 
Greenway
Henderson 
Dr Nationway Omaha Rd Add Greenway along 
Henderson Dr 2
 160.  South Dry Creek 
Greenway Dry Creek Campstool 
Rd
East Park 
Greenway Add Greenway along Dry Creek 2
 161.  North Dry Creek 
Greenway Dry Creek East Park 
Greenway Lincolnway Add Greenway along Dry Creek 2
 162.  West Campstool 
Rd Greenway
Campstool 
Rd College Dr Livingston 
Ave
Add Greenway along 
Campstool Rd 2
 163.  East Campstool 
Rd Greenway
Campstool 
Rd
Burlington 
Trail Rd Archer Pkwy Add Greenway along 
Campstool Rd 2
 164.  HR Ranch Rd/ 
I-80 Greenway
New 
Greenway HR Ranch Rd HR Ranch Rd Add Greenway between HR 
Ranch Rd and I-80 2
 165.  Crow Creek 
Greenway Crow Creek Morrie Ave Burlington 
Trail Rd
Add Greenway along Crow 
Creek 2
 166.  Crow Creek 
Greenway Connection
New 
Greenway Allison Rd Crow Creek Add Greenway between Allison 
Rd and Crow Creek 2
 169.  Center Dr 
Greenway Center Dr Dead end
South High 
School 
Greenway
Add Greenway connection from 
Center Dr to New South High 
School Greenway
2
 170.  Cribbon Ave 
Greenway Cribbon Ave Allison Rd Jefferson Rd Add Greenway along Cribbon 
Ave 2
 171.  Walterscheid 
Blvd Greenway
Walterscheid 
Blvd Prosser Rd Fox Farm Rd Add Greenway along 
Walterscheid Blvd 2
 172.  15th St Greenway 15th St Bent Ave Lincolnway Add Greenway along 15th St 2
 174.  Round Top Rd 
Greenway
Round Top 
Rd
Happy Jack 
Rd Arabian Ln Improve roadway to rural 
minor arterial cross section 2
 175.  Partoyan Dr 
Greenway Partoyan Dr 2nd St Deming Dr Add Greenway along Partoyan 
Dr 2
Potential  
Project ID
Primary 
Route From/At To Project Description Source
 177.  David R Romero 
South Cheyenne 
Community Park 
North/South 
Greenway
New 
Greenway 5th St Parsely Blvd Add Park Greenway 2
 180.  Freedom 
Elementary School 
Greenway
New 
Greenway Lincolnway Ziemann 
Blvd
Add Greenway connecting 
Freedom Elementary School 
with Lincolnway
1
 181.  Parsley Blvd 
Greenway Parsley Blvd
WAPA 
Greenway 
Corridor
3rd St
Add Greenway connecting 
WAPA Greenway corridor to 
3rd St
1
Figure 33. Active Transportation Evaluation Criteria
Table 14 Continued. Potential Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects
Table 14 Continued. Potential Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
58 59
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN SYSTEMS
Active Transportation Project Unit Costs
Planning-level cost estimates were generated for each transportation project type for use in the prioritization 
process. While these unit costs provide a planning-level cost, additional study or design will be needed for 
each project to develop more detailed cost estimates that will be used for programming construction funds. 
All unit costs were developed in partnership with Cheyenne MPO staff and included the following sources:
 » Previous project costs from completed consultant team projects
 » Cheyenne MPO Metropolitan Transportation Improvement Program costs
The unit costs for active transportation capital projects are shown in Table 15. 
Improvement Description Unit Cost 
(2025 $) Unit
Shared-use path 
(greenway) Construct new 10’ off-street paved path $2,200,000 Mile
Shared-use path 
(greenway) underpass Construct new underpass under UPRR rail line $4,279,000 Location
New sidewalk Construct new sidewalk $22 Square-foot
Pedestrian hybrid beacon 
(PHB)
Install signalized PHB crossing for pedestrians/
bicyclists $500,000 Location
Buffered bike lane Construct 5’ bike lane with buffer $127,500 Mile
Buffered bike lane with 
widening
Construct 5’ bike lane with buffer with roadway 
widening $1,658,000 Mile
Pedestrian curb extension Install pedestrian curb extension $330,000 Intersection
Table 15. Roadway Capital Project Unit Costs
Active Transportation Projects Prioritization Results
Based on how well a project performed against the active transportation evaluation criteria, a priority level of 
high, medium, or low was assigned. Active transportation projects are shown by priority in Figure 34. Detailed 
prioritization results can be found in Appendix E. 
Figure 34. Active Transportation Projects by Prioritization
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
61
REGIONAL TRANSIT
0707
REGIONAL 
TRANSIT
SERVICE OVERVIEW
The Cheyenne Transit Program (CTP) operates four fixed routes and paratransit service, newly implemented 
in 2023 after providing only demand response service during the COVID-19 pandemic. The service operates 
from 6:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays. The CTP is 
currently free for all riders. Routes operate with a 60-minute frequency. There is a total of 55 miles of bus 
routes that run throughout the region.
There are four routes in the fixed-route system: North, Northeast, East, and South. Each CTP route is a bi-
directional route. Figure 35 shows transit service in the region. Routes begin near downtown Cheyenne, north 
of the rail yard. The North and Northeast routes connect at the Walmart on Dell Range Boulevard, and the 
South and East routes connect at the Walmart at Campstool Way. The fixed-route system does not serve the 
airport at this time.
Figure 35. CTP Route and Stop Locations
Although many of the recommendations from the CTP 2023 Transit 
Development Plan have been implemented, the plan recommends 
increasing service hours to Sunday.
Source: Cheyenne Transit Program
62 63
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN REGIONAL TRANSIT
TRANSIT PROJECTS
Based on Cheyenne Transit Program (CTP) staff and community input, several transit improvements have 
been proposed to enhance connectivity and accessibility in the region:
SERVICE PERFORMANCE
Monthly ridership by route was assessed to 
determine how the transit system is used in 
the region. Figure 36 shows monthly ridership 
by route for July through November of 2024. 
Ridership is consistently highest on the north 
route, serving an average of 246 riders per 
month. There was an event that leveraged 
the Northeast Route in September 2024 that 
heavily increased ridership that month.
Table 16 shows the five busiest stops by riders 
that got on and off at the stops in November 
2024. The stops include the Transfer Center 
in downtown Cheyenne, East Walmart and 
North Walmart stops as they are the stops 
that appear on multiple routes. The other two 
stops are found on the North Route, both with 
weekday boardings and alightings above 500 
riders.
Figure 36. Monthly Ridership by Route (July-November 2024)
Table 16. Highest Utilized Transit Stops
Total of 600 due to 
an event
Stop 
Description
Stop 
Number
November 
Boardings
November 
Alightings
Transfer 
Center 247 2440 2229
North 
Walmart 62 939 938
Stinson and 
W 17th St 242 662 554
Library East 
Side 190 564 505
East 
Walmart 191 299 428
SOUTH ROUTE REALIGNMENT 
CTP is evaluating realigning the South Route to more directly serve 
Laramie County Community College (LCCC).
TRANSFER HUB RELOCATION
CTP is actively working to rehabilitate a building at 1800 Westland 
Road into a permanent transfer center for its fixed-route services and 
intercity services from other providers.
FUTURE INTERCITY BUS SERVICES
The City of Laramie is currently evaluating the feasibility of an intercity 
bus between Laramie and Cheyenne, which would connect to the future 
transfer hub on Westland Road.
FRONT RANGE PASSENGER RAIL STATION
The Cheyenne MPO is actively advocating for the Cheyenne region to 
be the northern terminus of the planned Front Range Passenger Rail 
service. There are currently two potential sites for the passenger rail 
station; one near the intersection of Old Happy Jack Road and Missile 
Drive, and one near the intersection of Reed Avenue and Lincolnway.
This list of transit projects is not comprehensive of the long-term transit 
needs in the Cheyenne region. CTP and the Cheyenne MPO are planning to 
perform a Transit Development Plan update for CTP services to define  
short-term improvements, a long-term vision, and prioritization of 
recommended changes to CTP services.
Source: Cheyenne Transit Program
Source: Cheyenne Transit Program
65
REGIONAL AVIATION
REGIONAL 
AVIATION0808
AVIATION
The Cheyenne Regional Airport (CYS) is located approximately two miles north of downtown Cheyenne. 
Figure 37 shows the number of passengers served by year from 2019 to 2023. In 2023, the airport served 
26,261 passengers. Air travel at CYS was greatly impacted in 2020 and 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic but 
rebounded in 2022 to serve the most passengers to date. CYS closed temporarily for commercial flights from 
April to September 2023 for runway construction, impacting the passenger totals.
Monthly passenger volume at CYS highlights visitor and residents travel patterns in and out of the region. 
Figure 38 shows monthly passenger volume to CYS from 2022. Passenger volume grew throughout the year 
peaking in November with 4,547 passengers. Passengers into the region were lowest during winter months, 
serving 1,624 riders in February of 2022.
Figure 38. Monthly Passengers at Cheyenne Regional Airport (2022)
Figure 37. CYS Annual Passengers (2019-2023)
Source: Cheyenne Regional Airport
Source: Cheyenne Regional Airport
67
LIVABILITY
LIVABILITY
0909
TRAVEL AND TOURISM
Travel and tourism activity impacts transportation demand. Data on existing travel and tourism trends has 
been compiled, including annual visitation levels, growth trends, and seasonal and monthly variations.
Trends
According to the Wyoming Office of Tourism, visitors to Laramie County spent an estimated $463.9 million in 
2024, generating $115 million in local earnings, and 3,600 jobs. Travel spending in Laramie County has been on 
an upward trend, increasing from $421 million in 2021, equating to an average annual growth rate of 3.3%. The 
growth in travel impacts is shown in Table 17.
Forecasts
Data on current travel trends was used as a basis to estimate visitation and travel spending in Laramie 
County for the 2025 to 2050 period. Between 2021 and 2024, travel spending grew 3.3% annually, earnings 
generated grew 8.5% annually, jobs generated grew 3.4% annually, and overnight visits grew 0.5% annually. 
Table 18 shows the projected forecasts for travel spending, earnings generated, jobs generated, and overnight 
visitors for 2030, 2040, and 2050.
Cheyenne Greenways
A well-connected bike and trail system are 
important to visitors and residents. According 
to the City of Cheyenne Tourism Master Plan, an 
emphasis should be placed on connections into 
downtown and ways to activate the Greenway with 
activities and events.
Improvements
Based on the analysis of current conditions, the following needs were identified to support the travel and 
tourism industry in the Cheyenne MPO region.
Rail Access and Service
According to the City of Cheyenne Tourism Master 
Plan, the region wants to capitalize on railroad 
attractions to attract visitation, engage the local 
population, support the Cheyenne brand, and 
create valuable public relations for Union Pacific 
(UP) and Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF).
Table 18. Laramie County Travel Forecasts (2030-2050)
Table 17. Laramie County Travel Impacts (2021-2024)
Description 2021 2022 2023 2024 Annual 
Increase
Travel Spending ($M) $421.0 $452.2 $462.9 $463.9 3.3%
Earnings Generated ($M) $90.0 $104.8 $109.9 $115.0 8.5%
Jobs Generated 3,292 3,519 3,614 3,644 3.4%
Description 2030 2040 2050
Travel Spending ($M) $545.7 $755.0 $1,044.6
Earnings Generated ($M) $172.9 $391.0 $884.0
Jobs Generated 4,307 6,017 8,406
Source: Wyoming Office of Tourism
Source: Wyoming Office of Tourism
68 69
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN LIVABILITY
AIR QUALITY 
The Cheyenne MPO region currently meets the requirements of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
for all air emission levels, including ozone, sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, lead, and 
nitrogen dioxide. While the region is not designated as an EPA non-attainment area, transportation is a major 
contributor to harmful emissions throughout the county and reducing transportation-related emissions would 
improve air quality.
System Operational Improvements
The USDOT lists the following five ways that transportation agencies can reduce traffic-related air pollution 
and improve air quality:
 » Develop cleaner travel options through measures such as expanding public transportation systems, 
improving public transportation service, and improving bicycling and pedestrian infrastructure.
 » Reduce the distance between key destinations to meet daily needs through more efficient land use 
planning and zoning, making it more attractive and convenient to walk or ride a bicycle.
 » Create or support clean fueling infrastructure, such as electric vehicle charging and hydrogen fueling 
stations.
 » Manage the transportation system to increase vehicle and system operating efficiency through measures 
such as anti-idling policies, improved incident response, real-time travel information for public 
transportation, and congestion management.
 » Buy green fleet vehicles and equipment, including equipment with increased fuel efficiency, hybrid electric 
vehicles, and equipment that runs on clean fuels.
Vehicle Miles Traveled Reduction
The following strategies will aid in reducing vehicle miles traveled (VMT) throughout the region to maintain 
and improve air quality:
 » Increase the number of available, safe, accessible, and efficient mobility options
 » Promote alternative travel modes
 » Enhance safety and reliability of the transportation system
 » Provide new, more direct, connections to the existing street network
 » Improve transit performance
 » Develop and implement a Complete Streets Policy in both the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County
 » Continue Safe Routes to School planning and implementation of suggestions
 » Coordinate land use and transportation in all planning activities
 » Consider telecommuting alternatives to work scheduling where possible
SYSTEM RESILIENCY AND RELIABILITY
Facility maintenance and flooding are both issues that impact the regional transportation system in and 
around Cheyenne. Improving resiliency to these natural and man-made issues will increase the reliability of 
travel times within the region and improve the overall quality of the transportation network. 
Maintenance of the region’s roadways, including pavement, sidewalks, and bridges, has been a long-standing 
issue resulting from a lack of funding. Pavement conditions from a City pavement inventory performed in 2019 
are shown in Figure 39. 
The City of Cheyenne performed a Drainage Master Plan, which identified areas where flooding and 
stormwater management are known issues. Figure 40 show locations where flooding impacts the functionally 
classified roadway system.
Figure 39. City of Cheyenne Pavement Condition Map
Source: Cheyenne MPO
70 71
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN LIVABILITY
EMERGING TECHNOLOGY
Autonomous Vehicles
Autonomous vehicles (AV) use advanced technologies such as sensors, cameras, and artificial intelligence 
to navigate and operate without human input. These innovative vehicles have the potential to revolutionize 
transportation by improving safety, reducing traffic congestion, and increasing accessibility. The region should 
evaluate the state of practice related to AVs and assess local strategies and approaches to investing in, 
accommodating, and regulating these technologies.
Micromobility Technology
According to the FHWA, micromobility refers to any small, low-speed, human or electric-powered transportation 
device, including bicycles, scooters, electric-assist bicycles (e-bikes), electric scooters (e-scooters), and other 
small, lightweight, wheeled conveyances. Common micromobility challenges agencies experience include:
 » Micromobility Parking. Designating locations that users are permitted to drop off shared micromobility devices.
 » Shared Mobility Facilities and Infrastructure. Designing transportation facilities to safely accommodate 
micromobility devices.
 » Restricted Operations and Access. Clearly identifying locations where micromobility is not permitted.
 » Shared Mobility Data. Requiring access to vendor’s data to the extend that is needed to allow the agencies 
to effectively make decisions about the safety and accessibility of the transportation network.
Electric Vehicle Charging
There are nine electric vehicle chargers in the region, shown in Figure 41. Electric vehicle charging infrastructure 
is concentrated close to the interstate network, including the Frontier Mall area, and Westland Road, south of 
Missile Drive. A much stronger regional presence of electric vehicle charging, especially near major activity 
centers, will ensure that resident, visitor, and short freight trips can be made with electric vehicles.Stormwater Facilities
The City of Cheyenne’s Stormwater Management System regulates the maintenance and improvements to the 
region’s storm sewer infrastructure. The Stormwater Management System is comprised of a robust network 
of drainage infrastructure, including:
Intelligent Transportation Systems
The Cheyenne Regional Freight Mobility Plan recommends the implementation of ITS to increase speed and 
reliability of freight traffic through the Cheyenne region. Recommended ITS technologies include traffic signal 
timing and optimization, variable speed limits, and active lane use control.
 » Traffic Signal Timing and Optimization. According to the Cheyenne Regional Freight Mobility Plan, traffic 
signal timing and optimization can reduce vehicle delays on arterial streets by up to 30% in peak hours.
 » Variable Speed Limits. Variable speed limits moderate freeway traffic flow based on downstream 
conditions. When congestion is detected, a traffic management center modifies speed limits upstream 
lowering the risk of crashes and smoothing the flow of traffic over a larger segment of the freeway.
 » Active Lane Use Control. Active lane use control manages congestion based on prevailing traffic 
conditions and is typically used on freeways to manage traffic flow. Active lane use control measures 
include speed harmonization, temporary shoulder use, and truck restrictions.
 » 700+ miles of curb and gutter
 » 135 miles of drainage pipe
 » 4,119 catch basins
 » 236 discharge points
 » 25+ miles of open channels
 » 6 lakes and reservoirs
 » 3 dams
Figure 41. Electric Vehicle Charging Locations
Figure 40. Drainage Master-Plan-Identified Impacts to Transportation System
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Source: Cheyenne MPO
72 73
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN LIVABILITY
ORDINANCE MODIFICATIONS
Several City of Cheyenne and WYDOT policies and procedures were reviewed to verify they were generally 
supportive of Connect 2050 goals. Potential ordinance modifications are discussed below.
City of Cheyenne Policies and Procedures
Impact Studies
Cheyenne Unified Development Code (UDC) Article 3 outlines requirements for Transportation Impact Studies 
(TIS), Transportation Impact Analyses (TIA), and Drainage Impact Studies for many types of large development 
projects within the City. A TIS is required for any change in land use, proposed zoning change, modification 
of access points to public streets, and/or development or subdivisions of land. The TIS requirement can be 
waived or modified to a TIA if projected trip generation impacts are below certain thresholds.
The TIS/TIA process focuses primarily on traffic impacts and mitigation through traffic controls, intersections, 
etc. Access for pedestrian, bicycle, transit, and trucks are not covered in detail but are acknowledged as 
critical components of managing transportation systems and included in the process for study.
 » Possible Modification. Supplement the TIS/TIA requirements to include more requirements for pedestrian, 
bicycle, and transit access.
Subdivision Regulations
Cheyenne UDC Article 4 standards for development across large areas, including the creation of new 
subdivisions. The primary sections within Article 4 focus on development fees, transportation networks and 
street design, open space, and other engineering improvements and provisions.
Generally, Article 4 is in line with best practices for subdivision connectivity and includes “complete streets” 
typologies addressing provisions for bicycles, pedestrians, and motor vehicles. Required street sections (by 
context) may include bicycle lanes, detached sidewalks, generally separated by a tree lawn or landscape, 
protected medians for larger streets, and parallel or angled on-street parking. Transit connectivity is not 
specifically addressed in this section but may fit within some of the standard street typologies.
 » Possible Modification. The City may periodically revisit street design typologies to ensure that the 
standards are in line with current best practices to maximize pedestrian, bicycle, and vehicular safety.
Zoning Regulations
Cheyenne UDC Article 5 provides standards for general land use types and densities allowed within each of 
the City’s zoning districts defined under the Comprehensive Plan. Most zone districts are “Euclidean”, allowing 
for a single land use type or mix of similar land-use types. However, Article 5 includes provisions for several 
types of form-based code districts and special purpose and overlay districts that allow for greater flexibility 
and mixed-use development.
Density and setback requirements in this section appear generally appropriate to encourage walkable 
neighborhoods and mixed-use development within the appropriate contexts. Minimum parking requirements 
within the Special Purpose (P) District are waived in favor of shared-use and flexible-use parking, if required 
by the City; this is appropriate for this context.
 » Possible Modification. The current setback requirements could be streamlined to be more clear. Building 
areas should be increased in certain districts, such as multifamily, to allow for more residential density.
Design Regulations
Cheyenne UDC Article 6 provides more specific standards for development within each zoning district to 
ensure that all projects are providing certain design criteria and reinforce the desired character for a given 
district and context. The elements most relevant to the LRTP are the Parking, Lot Access, and Circulation 
standards as these requirements directly impact neighborhood density, parking provisions, mode choice, and 
integration with other mobility elements. 
Parking lot circulation and pedestrian circulation elements within Article 6 are reasonable, though pedestrian 
standards do not address possible incursions into the pedestrian right of way such as the placement of light 
posts, etc.
Minimum parking requirements show some amount of flexibility including the use of “parking credits” 
to help promote desired mobility connections including bicycle parking, public parking, transit access, 
carpool, etc. The Development Director may also grant a reduction of up to 10% for certain site-specific 
conditions/constraints, and up to 50% for developments within historic districts. Article 6 also includes some 
calculations available for mixed-use developments with shared-use parking. 
The overall parking standards may be overly restrictive and do not appropriately address reductions for some 
shared-use parking conditions, urban infill, adaptive reuse, and projects within the downtown context. 
 » Possible Modification. Minimum parking requirements may not reflect current industry standards for all 
land uses and may hinder some types of development. The City may want to update these standards per 
recommendations from the National Parking Association (NPA) and Urban Land Institute publications.
WYDOT Policies and Procedures
Road Design Manual
The WYDOT Access Manual and Road Design Manual were reviewed for their general impact on Connect 2050 
and no modifications are recommended at this time.
75
FUNDING
FUNDING
1010
FISCAL FORECAST
Existing Funding Sources
MPO Transportation Improvement Program (TIP)
The Cheyenne MPO TIP is a federally required document that includes all projects funded with federal 
transportation sources over a five-year period. The current TIP covers fiscal years (FY) 2026-2029. Projects 
are displayed by agency and funds are from federal, state, local, private, or undetermined sources.
City of Cheyenne Capital Improvement Plan (CIP)
The City of Cheyenne CIP for FY 2023 to 2027 was reviewed to identify transportation project funding levels. 
The transportation funding sources used in the CIP are:
 » General Purpose Option Tax (5th Penny)
 » Specific Purpose Option Tax (6th Penny)
 » Federal & State Grants
 » Specific Revenue Sources
 » Unknown
Laramie County CIP
The Laramie County FY 2023-2025 CIP was also reviewed to get a baseline funding level for transportation 
improvements. There were nine transportation related projects from four different departments:
 » Public Works - Optional Sales Tax
 » County Road Construction
 » Public Works
 » Special Projects - Public Works
Current Year Funding Summary
Through the review of the individual projects across all three plans, the funding has been consolidated 
by year. The current Cheyenne MPO TIP period (FY 2026-2029) funding is detailed in Table 19, broken out 
by funding source (federal, state, local) and project type (roadway capital, roadway maintenance, active 
transportation, and transit).
Table 19. Funding by Source and Type (FY 2026-2029)
Source Roadway  
Capital
Roadway 
Maintenance
Active 
Transportation Transit Total
Federal Funds $41,958,862 $62,779,286 $1,720,000 $30,013,369 $136,471,517
State Funds $87,000 $8,755,277 $0 $0 $8,842,277
Local Funds $62,801,658 $29,804,202 $37,859,625 $0 $130,465,485
Total $104,847,520 $101,338,765 $39,579,625 $30,013,369 $275,779,279
Source: Cheyenne MPO TIP FY 26-29
76 77
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN FUNDING
Roadway Maintenance Funding
Forecasted roadway 
maintenance funding 
followed the same process 
as roadway capital funding, 
showing federal, state and 
local maintenance funding 
by tier. These were based on 
historic TIP values and grown 
at an inflation rate of 2%. The 
forecasted maintenance funds 
by funding tier are shown in 
Figure 45.
ROADWAY FUNDING
Roadway Capital Funding
Roadway capital projects are those that add roadway capacity, multimodal facilities, or modernize the 
roadway. Forecasted roadway capital revenues were divided into four tiers: 
The forecasted revenue totals by tier are shown for roadway capital funding in Figure 43.
In the next 25 years, unforeseen minor adjustments to the transportation system will be necessary to 
enhance safety and traffic operations. To accommodate these future needs, 10% of local roadway capital 
funding, along with 2.5% of both state and federal funding, has been reserved for small-scale unspecified 
safety and operations projects. Figure 44 illustrates the allocation of this funding by tier. Consequently, 
this reserved funding has been deducted from the available roadway capital budget for fiscally constrained 
roadway projects.
Figure 43. Roadway Capital Revenue by Tier
Figure 42. Forecasted Transportation Revenue (FY 2030-2050)
Figure 45. Roadway Maintenance Funding by Tier
Figure 44. Safety and Operations Revenue by Tier
Forecasted Transportation Funding
The funding levels from the TIP and local agency CIPs were extrapolated to forecast transportation revenues 
for the years 2030 (the year after the current TIP expires) and 2050, using an inflation rate of 2% per year. 
Figure 42 show the forecasted transportation revenues for FY 2030-2050. 
 » Tier 1 - FY 2030 through FY 2034
 » Tier 2 - FY 2035 through FY 2039
 » Tier 3 - FY 2040 through FY 2044
 » Tier 4 - FY 2045 through FY 2050
$134,479,606
$21,138,343
$139,135,830
$23,338,438
$153,617,199 $169,605,800
$226,986,972
$25,767,523
$34,485,212
$148,476,351 $163,929,889
$219,390,782
Source: Cheyenne MPO TIP FY 26-29
Source: Cheyenne MPO TIP FY 26-29
Source: Cheyenne MPO TIP FY 26-29
Source: Cheyenne MPO TIP FY 26-29
78 79
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN FUNDING
ADDITIONAL FUNDING SOURCES
Federal Funding Sources
FTA Section 5303 & 5304 - Metropolitan & State Planning Grants
These funds are used to foster the development of coordinated and regional transit planning for metropolitan 
and rural areas. Metropolitan Planning funds (5303) are provided for Cheyenne and Casper every year as part 
of their apportionment. FTA Section 5303 is handled by the municipality and only reviewed in publication form 
by Wyoming. Statewide planning (5304) in Wyoming is usually placed in a consolidated planning program and 
added to the state planning funds and available to municipalities and small rural areas.
 » Local Match: 80/20 for Municipalities
Better Utilizing Investment to Leverage Development (BUILD) Grant
The USDOT administers the BUILD Grant program, which allows local governments to compete for 
discretionary funds for transportation infrastructure projects. In FY 2025, there is $1.5 billion available in 
BUILD funding. The focus of the BUILD grant is to stimulate job creation and spur economic growth in local 
economies. These projects will have a local and or regional impact and improve transportation infrastructure. 
 » Local Match: 20%
Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA)
The INFRA Grant, also known as the Nationally Significant Multimodal Freight & Highway Projects Program, 
a subset of the Multimodal Project Discretionary Grant (MPDG), awards competitive grants for multimodal, 
freight, and highway projects of national or regional significance to improve the safety, efficiency, and 
reliability of the movement of freight and people in and across rural and urban areas. The minimum grant size 
is $5 million for small projects (total project cost of under $100 million) and $25 million for large projects. 
 » Local Match: 17.21%
Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation (SMART)
The SMART program was established to provide grants to eligible public-sector agencies to conduct 
demonstration projects focused on advanced smart community technologies and systems to improve 
transportation efficiency and safety. SMART is a two-stage program. Stage 1 (funds up to $2 million) grants 
are open for any eligible entity to apply. Recipients of Stage 1 grants are eligible to expand their projects 
through Stage 2 grants (up to $15 million). The SMART program is currently funded at $100 million per year.
 » Local Match: 0%
Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA)
The TIFIA program provides credit assistance for qualified projects of regional and national significance. Many 
large-scale, surface transportation projects are eligible for assistance. Eligible applicants include state and 
local governments, transit agencies, railroad companies, special authorities, special districts, and private 
entities. The program’s goal is to leverage federal funds by attracting substantial private and other non-
federal co-investment in critical improvements to the nation’s surface transportation system.
 » Local Match: 0%
Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP)
The purpose of the HSIP program is to achieve a significant reduction in traffic fatalities and serious injuries 
on all public roads, including non-state-owned roads and roads on Tribal land. The HSIP requires a data-
driven, strategic approach to improving highway safety on all public roads with a focus on performance.
 » Local Match: 0%
Safe Streets and Roads for All (SS4A)
The SS4A grant program provides funding through a competitive selection process and is intended to support 
various initiatives related to planning, infrastructure, behavior, and operations. The goal is to prevent fatal and 
serious injury crashes on roadways for all road users. Jurisdictions must already have an SS4A-compliant 
Safety Action Plan in place to apply for implementation funds. The SS4A program is scheduled to sunset in 
2026 with the final year of the IIJA unless it is reauthorized in the next federal transportation authorization.
 » Local Match: 20%
ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION FUNDING
Active transportation (pedestrian and bicycle) 
funding has been forecasted with the same 
methodology as roadway funding, based on 
historic TIP levels and grown at an inflation rate of 
2%. Active transportation funding is a combination 
of 5th Penny active transportation capital and 
maintenance and the 6th Penny tax revenues. The 
active transportation funding is shown by funding 
tier in Figure 46. 
TRANSIT FUNDING
Transit funding follows a similar methodology to the 
roadway and active transportation funding, based 
on historic TIP levels and grown at an inflation rate 
of 2%. Transit funding is shown by funding tier in 
Figure 47.
Figure 46. Active Transportation Funding by Tier
$52,523,359 $57,990,033 $64,025,682
$85,686,902
$39,828,648 $43,974,046 $48,550,900
Figure 47. Transit Funding by Tier
$64,976,680
Source: Cheyenne MPO TIP FY 26-29
Source: Cheyenne MPO TIP FY 26-29
80 81
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN FUNDING
State Funding Sources
Business Ready Community (BRC) Grant and Loan Program -  
Wyoming Business Council
The Business Ready Community (BRC) grant and loan program assists in the financing of publicly owned 
infrastructure that will serve the needs for businesses and promotes economic development. Public 
infrastructure includes “water; sewer; roads; airports; rights of way; telecommunications; land; spec buildings; 
amenities within a business park, industrial park, industrial site or business district; landscaping, recreation, 
and educational facilities; and other physical projects in support of primary economic and educational 
development.” Cities, towns, counties, join power boards and Northern Arapaho and Eastern Shoshone tribes 
are eligible to apply.
 » Local Match: Full Match (maximum ranges from $500,000 - $5 Million depending on the project)
Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP) - WYDOT
Transportation Alternatives are projects that are federally funded and community based. These projects 
expand travel choices and transportation experiences by integrating cultural, historic, and environmental 
aspects of transportation. TA projects must be at least one of 10 activities listed below that related to surface 
transportation:
 » Pedestrian & Bicycle Facilities
 » Safe Routes for Non-Drivers
 » Conversion of Abandoned 
Railway Corridors to Trails
 » Scenic Turnouts and Overlooks
 » Outdoor Advertising 
Management
 » Historic Preservation & Rehab 
of Historic Transportation 
Facilities
 » Vegetation Management
 » Archaeological Activities
 » Stormwater Mitigation
 » Wildlife Management 
 » Local Match: 9.51%
Alternative Funding Sources
Developer Contributions
Local governments can utilize land use regulation authority to require private developers to contribute to 
infrastructure projects through the following ways:
 » Land Dedication. Requiring the developer to dedicate land for the infrastructure needed to accommodate 
the proposed development
 » Construction. Requiring the developer to construct all or part of the needed infrastructure to 
accommodate the proposed development
 » Impact Fees. Charging a fee to the developer to fund the infrastructure needed to accommodate the 
proposed development
Tax Increment Financing (TIF)
TIF is a public financing method used to promote economic development or redevelopment in specific areas. 
When a TIF district is established, the current tax base is frozen, and any future increases in property tax 
revenues resulting from rising property values within the district are used to fund development projects such 
as roadway improvements within that area. This helps fund infrastructure improvements without raising 
taxes, as the increased property values generate the additional revenue needed for funding.
Public-Private Partnerships (PPP)
A PPP is an agreement between government agencies and private sector companies to finance, build, and 
operate projects that serve the public. Typically, the government agency provides the regulatory framework and 
ensures that the project aligns with public interests, while the private sector may bring funding or expertise. 
PPPs are often used for large infrastructure projects such as highways, bridges, public transit, and utilities.
Tolling
Collecting fees from drivers on dedicated toll roads is a common method of generating revenue that can be 
used to implement roadway projects. Wyoming currently does not have any toll roads within the state.
Sales Tax
The Cheyenne region has a combined sales tax rate combines the 4% state tax rate with a 1% “5th penny” and 
a 1% “6th penny” that are subject to voter approval resulting in a 6% sales tax rate. The 5th Penny Sales Tax 
is a general purpose sales tax used to fund roads, traffic, and drainage systems in Cheyenne and Laramie 
County. The 6th Penny Sales Tax is a special purpose sales tax that can be used for capital projects such as 
new road construction, expanding existing facilities, or purchasing equipment for public safety.
Surface Transportation Block Grant Program (STBG)
The STBG program provides flexible funding that may be used by states and localities for projects to preserve 
and improve the conditions and performance on any federal-aid highway, bridge and tunnel projects on 
any public road, pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, and transit capital projects, including intercity bus 
terminals. The STBG program funding is made available through the state transportation agencies. STBG 
is an apportioned (formula) program, which means the funds are only made available to the states by a 
formula contained in law, which is different than a discretionary grant program where eligible applicants may 
competitively seek funding through a Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO).
 » Local Match: 0%
Grants for Buses and Bus Facilities Competitive Program
The purpose of the Buses and Bus Facilities Competitive Program is to assist in the financing of buses and 
bus facilities capital projects, including replacing, rehabilitating, purchasing or leasing buses or related 
equipment, and rehabilitating, purchasing, constructing or leasing bus-related facilities.
 » Local Match: 0%
83
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
IMPLEMENTATION 
PLAN1111
ROADWAY CAPITAL PROJECTS
This section breaks down the final list of recommended projects for implementation 
based on current and projected available funding. All projects are shown in both current 
and year-of-expenditure (YOE) dollars, meaning the project costs have been inflated at 
a rate of 5% per year from current year dollars to values at the time of the anticipated 
construction for the project. The rate of inflation for project cost is higher than the 
inflation rate for transportation revenues (2.0%) to reflect the trend in recent years of 
construction costs increasing faster than inflation. Figure 48 shows the roadway capital 
projects based on the fiscal constraints.
ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS
While many pedestrian and bicycle improvements occur within the right-of-way of 
roadways and are often included as parts of larger roadway projects, some active 
transportation projects will occur independent of roadway improvements. The proposed 
active transportation network consists of 33 individual projects that have been 
prioritized using the following implementation tiers:
 » Tier 1 (0-5 years)
 » Tier 2 (5-10 years)
 » Tier 3 (10 years or more)
TRANSIT PROJECTS
Transit projects in Connect 2050 aim to increase access to the transit opportunities 
within the City and region. CTP is currently focused on rehabbing a building on Westland 
Avenue to serve as it’s permanent new transfer hub that will connect local CTP services 
with existing and future intercity bus services. Additionally, the potential passenger rail 
station sites expand the options for regional connections with the Colorado Front Range. 
84
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Figure 48. Roadway Capital Projects by Funding Status
Source: Cheyenne MPO
85
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Project  
ID Primary Route From To Project Description Priority  
Level
2025 Cost  
(Mil)
YOE Cost  
(Mil) Fund Source Lead Agency
1 I-25 Central Ave - Capacity improvements for Central Ave at I-25, Bishop Blvd, & Walker Rd High $1.85 $2.30 Federal WYDOT
2 College Dr Fox Farm Rd Lincolnway Widen to 7 lanes High $12.51 $15.58 Local WYDOT
3 12th St College Dr Adams Ave Widen to 5 lanes High $1.09 $1.36 Local City of Cheyenne
4 US 85 Artesian Rd I-80 Widen to 6 lanes, access management, active transportation enhancements High $6.10 $7.60 Federal WYDOT
5 Fox Farm Rd Walterscheid Blvd College Dr Widen to 3 lanes High $7.65 $9.53 Local Laramie County
6 College Dr US 85 High Plains Rd Widen to 5 lanes, access management, continuous sidewalk High $12.63 $15.73 Federal WYDOT
7 College Dr Lummis Dr Fox Farm Rd Widen to 5 lanes, access management, continuous sidewalk High $7.85 $9.77 Federal WYDOT
36 Converse Ave Dell Range Blvd - Improve Intersection capacity High $0.70 $0.88 Federal City of Cheyenne
43 College Dr Parsley Blvd US 85 Access management, intersection improvements, ped/bike enhancements High $0.72 $0.89 Federal WYDOT
48 York Ave Apple St College Dr Widen to 3 lanes, ped/bike improvements Medium $1.74 $2.16 Local Laramie County
87 Yellowstone Rd Dell Range Blvd - Capacity improvements High $5.47 $6.82 Local City of Cheyenne
89 5th St Deming Dr Morrie Ave Improve as a collector High $1.40 $1.75 Federal City of Cheyenne
93 Parsley Blvd College Dr Ames Ave Widen to 3 lanes, add greenway High $12.19 $15.19 Local City of Cheyenne
95 Dell Range Blvd College Dr - Improve intersection capacity High $7.30 $9.09 Local City of Cheyenne
104 Windmill Rd Pershing Blvd Rock Springs St Reconstruct roadway, add greenway High $5.01 $6.24 Local City of Cheyenne
106 9th St Crow Creek - Reconstruct bridge, add greenway, mitigate drainage issues High $4.30 $5.36 Local City of Cheyenne
110 I-25 Randall Ave - Widen NB off-ramp to four lane approach High $0.88 $1.10 Federal WYDOT
111 I-80 US 85 - Widen EB off-ramp to two lanes High $0.77 $0.97 Federal WYDOT
112 Southwest Dr College Dr Lincolnway Reconstruct to collector, mitigate drainage issues High $8.93 $11.13 Local City of Cheyenne
116 Christensen Rd Iron Mountain Rd US 85 New two-lane roadway Low $1.68 $2.09 Local Laramie County
117 I-80 Clear Creek - Mitigate drainage issues Medium $1.85 $2.30 Local WYDOT
118 US 85 I-80 5th St Mitigate drainage issues, improve 5th St intersection High $10.13 $12.62 Federal WYDOT
119 Campstool Rd Crow Creek - Mitigate drainage issues Medium $1.54 $1.92 Local Laramie County
120 Prairie Ave Dry Creek - Mitigate drainage issues High $0.77 $0.96 Local City of Cheyenne
121 Education Dr Dry Creek - Mitigate drainage issues Medium $0.90 $1.12 Local City of Cheyenne
122 Hilltop Dr Dry Creek - Mitigate drainage issues, add greenway High $0.78 $0.97 Local City of Cheyenne
123 Campstool Rd Dry Creek - Mitigate drainage issues, add greenway High $0.26 $0.33 Local City of Cheyenne
124 Seminoe Rd Dry Creek - Mitigate drainage issues Medium $0.75 $0.94 Local City of Cheyenne
126 Lincolnway E of Henderson Dr - Mitigate drainage issues, add greenway High $2.35 $2.92 Local City of Cheyenne
127 Fox Farm Rd Morrie Ave/Ave C - Reconstruct intersection, ped/bike enhancements High $0.56 $0.70 Local City of Cheyenne
Federal Tier 1 Revenue $54,288,662
Federal Tier 1 YOE Expenditures $52,465,000
Federal Tier 1 Revenue Balance $1,823,662
Local Tier 1 Revenue $75,005,729
Local Tier 1 YOE Expenditures $74,979,000
Local Tier 1 Revenue Balance $26,729
Table 20. Tier 1 Fiscally Constrained Roadway Capital Projects
Tier 1 (FY 2030-2034) Fiscally Constrained Projects
There are 30 projects that have been identified as Tier 1 fiscally constrained projects based on their priority level and anticipated YOE costs, as shown in Table 20 and Figure 49.
Source: Cheyenne MPO
86
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Figure 49. Tier 1 Fiscally Constrained Roadway Capital Projects
Source: Cheyenne MPO
87
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Project  
ID Primary Route From To Project Description Priority  
Level
2025 Cost  
(Mil)
YOE Cost  
(Mil) Fund Source Lead Agency
24 US 30 Westedt Rd Archer Pkwy Widen to 3 lanes, Add Greenway Medium $5.71 $8.43 Local WYDOT
35 Converse Ave Storey Blvd Columbia Dr New three-lane roadway Low $8.78 $12.98 Local Laramie County
37 Roundtop Rd Otto Rd I-80 Widen to 5 lanes Low $8.78 13.29 Federal Laramie County
44 Powderhouse Rd Storey Blvd Iron Mountain Rd Widen to 3 lanes, Add Greenway High $18.47 $27.30 Local Laramie County
60 Allison Rd Ave C West Cul-de-Sac New three-lane roadway Low $5.17 $7.64 Federal Laramie County
125 Henderson Dr Homestead Ave Nationway Mitigate drainage issues, add greenway Medium $19.51 $28.82 Local City of Cheyenne
174 Round Top Rd Happy Jack Rd Arabian Ln Reconstruct the roadway to match rural minor arterial cross section with 8 ft shoulders High $26.79 $39.59 Federal Laramie County
Federal Tier 2 Revenue $59,939,069
Federal Tier 1 Revenue Balance $1,823,662
Federal Tier 2 Expenditures $60,518,000
Federal Tier 2 Revenue Balance $1,244,731
Local Tier 2 Revenue $82,812,386
Local Tier 1 Revenue Balance $26,729
Local Tier 2 Expenditures $77,525,000
Local Tier 2 Revenue Balance $5,314,115
Table 21. Tier 2 Fiscally Constrained Roadway Capital Projects
Tier 2 (FY 2035-2039) Fiscally Constrained Projects
Tier 2 has seven projects projected within its time period, which is a five-year span from FY 2035 through FY 2039. Table 21 and Figure 50 provide the details of Tier 2.
Source: Cheyenne MPO
88
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Figure 50. Tier 2 Fiscally Constrained Roadway Capital Projects
Source: Cheyenne MPO
89
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Project  
ID Primary Route From To Project Description Priority  
Level
2025 Cost  
(Mil)
YOE Cost  
(Mil)
Fund 
Source Lead Agency
16 Chief Washakie Ave Storey Blvd Four Mile Rd New three-lane roadway, new greenway Low $13.97 $26.34 Local City of Cheyenne
46 I-80 Roundtop Rd - Improve interchange, widen underpass to 5 lanes Medium $28.99 $54.66 Federal WYDOT
113 Tranquility Rd Powderhouse Rd Converse Ave Reconstruct to collector Low $3.97 $7.48 Local Laramie County
182 Harriman Rd Jenny Lynn Rd I-80 Improve roadway to rural minor arterial cross section with 8' shoulders Low $2.58 $4.87 Local Laramie County
Federal Tier 3 Revenue $66,177,576
Federal Tier 2 Revenue Balance $1,244,731
Federal Tier 3 Expenditures $54,663,000
Federal Tier 3 Revenue Balance $12,759,307
Local Tier 3 Revenue $91,431,566
Local Tier 2 Revenue Balance $5,314,115
Local Tier 3 Expenditures $38,686,000
Local Tier 3 Revenue Balance $58,059,681
Table 22. Tier 3 Fiscally Constrained Roadway Capital Projects
Tier 3 (FY 2040-2044) and Tier 4 (FY 2045-2050) Fiscally Constrained Projects
There are four projects, shown in Table 22, that are included in Tier 3 and two projects, shown in Table 23, that are included in Tier 4 fiscally constrained projects list. Tier 3 covers a five-year span from FY 2040 through FY 2044 and Tier 
4 covers from FY 2045 through FY 2050. Beyond the tiers there is one project of opportunity that is not anticipated to be funded through the assumed funding sources forecasted through FY 2050. This project is shown in Table 24. Tier 3, 
Tier 4, and the project of opportunity are shown in Figure 51.
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Project  
ID Primary Route From To Project Description Priority  
Level
2025 Cost  
(Mil)
YOE Cost  
(Mil)
Fund 
Source Lead Agency
42 College Dr I-25 Parsley Blvd Access management, intersection improvements, RR grade separation Medium $40.75 $108.13 Local WYDOT
90 Pershing Blvd Concord Rd/Logan Ave - Realign Intersection Medium $7.30 $19.36 Local City of Cheyenne
Federal Tier 4 Revenue $88,566,827
Federal Tier 3 Balance $12,759,307
Federal Tier 4 Expenditures $88,566,827
Federal Tier 4 Balance $101,326,134
Local Tier 4 Revenue $122,364,767
Local Tier 3 Balance $58,059,681
Local Tier 4 Expenditures $127,485,000
Local Tier 4 Balance $52,939,448
Table 23. Tier 3 Fiscally Constrained Roadway Capital Projects
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Project  
ID Primary Route From To Project Description Priority  
Level
2025 Cost  
(Mil)
47 I-25 I-80 - Reconstruct interchange High $500.39
(Total Cost 2025$) $500,385,457
Table 24. Roadway Capital Projects of Opportunity
Source: Cheyenne MPO
90
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Figure 51. Tier 3 Fiscally Constrained Roadway Capital Projects
Source: Cheyenne MPO
91
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Project  
ID Primary Route From To Project Description Priority  
Level
2025 Cost  
(Mil)
8 Division Ave Wallick Rd College Dr New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway Medium $13.95
9 Iron Mountain Rd Whitney Rd Christensen Rd New three-lane roadway Low $11.48
10 Christensen Rd Riding Club Rd Iron Mountain Rd New three-lane roadway Low $11.72
11 Riding Club Rd Ridge Rd Whitney Rd New three-lane roadway Low $22.16
12 Four Mile Rd Braehill Rd Whitney Rd New three-lane roadway, new greenway Low $17.99
13 Four Mile Rd Christensen Rd Reese Rd New three-lane roadway Low $11.71
14 Mountain Rd Wild Bluff Storey Blvd New three-lane roadway Low $1.40
17 Frontier Mall Dr. Rue Terre Carlson St New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway Medium $10.59
18 Rue Terre Dead End Storey Blvd New three-lane roadway Medium $2.65
20 Carlson St Powderhouse Rd Converse Ave New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway High $12.03
21 Fort Laramie Trl Prairie Ave Storey Blvd New three-lane roadway High $8.21
25 Berwick Dr Wallick Rd I-80 New two-lane roadway and RR overpass High $56.28
26 Berwick Dr I-80 I-25 New two-lane roadway High $13.31
27 Parsley Blvd Terry Ranch Rd College Dr New three-lane roadway Low $17.27
28 Division Ave Dayshia Ln Wallick Rd New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway Medium $21.29
29 Wallick Rd US 85 High Plains Rd New three-lane roadway High $10.22
30 Wallick Rd Parsley Blvd Division Ave New three-lane roadway Medium $23.31
31 Ave C US 85 Loving Trail New three-lane roadway Medium $1.92
32 Ave C Current North Dead End Dayshia/Loving Trail New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway Medium $31.59
33 High Plains Rd I-25 US 85 New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway Low $62.64
34 Powderhouse Rd Iron Mountain Rd US 85 New three-lane roadway Low $37.50
49 York Ave Wallick Rd Apple St New three-lane roadway Low $5.90
50 York Ave Dayshia Ln High Plains Rd New three-lane roadway Low $3.68
51 New N-S Collector Terry Ranch Rd New E-W Collector New three-lane roadway Low $13.03
52 Parsley Blvd High Plains Rd College Dr New three-lane roadway Medium $28.52
53 New E-W Collector High Plains Rd New N-S Collector New three-lane roadway Low $8.99
54 Parsley Blvd Terry Ranch Rd High Plains Rd New three-lane roadway Low $21.08
55 Remington Dr High Plains Rd Troyer Dr New three-lane roadway Medium $23.49
57 Apple St New N-S Collector Division Ave New three-lane roadway, interstate overpass Medium $39.32
58 Julianna Rd US 85 Sweetgrass Dr New three-lane roadway, interstate overpass Low $36.14
61 Allison Rd College Dr Lummis Dr New three-lane roadway Medium $14.16
62 Fox Farm Rd College Dr Allison Rd New three-lane roadway Low $8.50
63 Lummis Dr College Dr Campstool Rd New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway High $56.52
Table 25. Assumed Developer-Funded Roadway Capital Projects
Assumed Developer-Funded Projects
There are 59 projects that are assumed to be constructed by developers as growth occurs. While these roadways are assumed to be constructed by 2050, there are no more specific timeframes assumed for these projects as they are 
purely development driven. Table 25 and Figure 53 show the specific details for the projects.
92
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Project  
ID Primary Route From To Project Description Priority  
Level
2025 Cost  
(Mil)
65 Burlington Trl Lummis Dr Industrial Rd New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway Medium $6.38
66 High Plains Rd US 85 College Dr New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway Medium $43.52
67 Sweetgrass Dr High Plains Rd Murray Rd New three-lane roadway High $17.00
68 Murray Rd Ave C Goodnight Trl New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway Medium $4.58
69 Murray Rd Prairie Gold Ln Lummis Dr New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway Medium $18.31
70 Nation Rd Ave C Sweetgrass Dr New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway High $20.27
71 Cirrus Dr Murray Rd College Dr New three-lane roadway Medium $3.33
72 Cumulus Dr High Plains Rd Lummis Dr New three-lane roadway Low $10.90
73 New N-S Collector Cumulus Dr Lummis Dr New three-lane roadway Medium $2.42
74 Beckle Rd Reese Rd Westedt Rd New three-lane roadway Low $11.68
75 Van Buren Ave Sullivan St Four Mile Rd New three-lane roadway Low $21.95
76 Rock Springs St Moran Ave Grove Dr New three-lane roadway Low $4.91
77 Ridge Rd Riding Club Rd Iron Mountain Rd New three-lane roadway Medium $11.77
78 Veta Dr Roundtop Rd Berwick Dr New three-lane roadway Low $9.52
79 Horizon Dr Roundtop Rd Lincolnway New three-lane roadway Low $9.54
80 New N-S Collector Horizon Dr Happy Jack Rd New three-lane roadway Medium $9.51
81 Broken Arrow Rd College Dr Swan Ranch Rd New three-lane roadway Medium $10.12
82 New N-S Collector (East) Berwick Dr Happy Jack Rd New three-lane roadway Low $3.71
83 New N-S Collector (West) Berwick Dr Happy Jack Rd New three-lane roadway High $3.72
84 New E-W Collector Roundtop Rd Berwick Dr New three-lane roadway High $9.90
101 Bridger Peak Rd Berwick Dr Cleark Creek Pkwy New three-lane roadway High $9.34
102 Gannett Peak Dr Berwick Dr Cleark Creek Pkwy New three-lane roadway Low $8.45
114 Whitney Rd Dell Range Blvd Storey Blvd Widen to 3 lanes, Add Greenway Medium $3.53
128 Swan Ranch Rd Southwest Dr Parsley Blvd New three-lane roadway, Add Greenway Medium $10.28
145 Storey Blvd/ Highland Rd College Dr Whitney Rd Add Greenway along eastern Storey Blvd and Highland Rd and through the open lot High $4.63
146 Christensen Rd Hereford Ranch Rd Four Mile Rd Add Greenway along Christensen Rd Medium $11.26
Total Cost (2025$) $939,052,609
Source: Cheyenne MPO
Table 25 Continued. Assumed Developer-Funded Roadway Capital Projects
93
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Figure 53. Assumed Developer-Funded Roadway Capital Projects
Source: Cheyenne MPO
94
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Table 26. Recommended Transit Project Timeframe
Project ID Project Name Timeframe
136 Old Happy Jack Rd Passenger Rail Station In coordination with Front Range Passenger Rail 
service implementation137 Reed Avenue Steam Plant Passenger Rail Station
183 Add Circulator Route with the Westland Building Mid-Term (5-10 Years)
184 New Westland Building Transit Transfer Hub Mid-Term (5-10 Years)
185 South Transit Route Realignment Short-Term (0-5 Years)
Transit Projects
The Cheyenne MPO completed their Cheyenne Passenger Rail Station Site Selection Study in April of 2025. This study, along with input from CTP staff and the public, helped identify the transit projects shown in Table 26.
Source: Cheyenne MPO
95
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Project  
ID Primary Route From To Project Description Priority  
Level
2025 Cost  
(Mil) Tier Level
132 Yellowstone Rd Dell Range Blvd Four Mile Rd Add Pedestrian and bicycle enhancements High $0.48 Tier 1
162 Campstool Rd College Dr Livingston Ave Add Greenway along Campstool Rd High $0.58 Tier 1
169 Center Dr Dead end South High School Greenway Add Greenway connection from Center Dr to New South High School Greenway High $0.77 Tier 1
156 3rd Ave Evans Ave Airport Pkwy Add Greenway around cemetery connecting 3rd Ave High $1.09 Tier 1
129 East Park Greenway Whitney Rd/Echo Star Dr Pershing Blvd New greenway High $1.64 Tier 1
141 Powderhouse Rd Dell Range Blvd Storey Blvd Add Greenway along southern portion of Powderhouse Rd High $2.17 Tier 1
148 Whitney Rd Pershing Blvd Dell Range Blvd Add Greenway along Whitney Rd High $2.19 Tier 1
139 Four Mile Rd Whitney Rd Christensen Rd Add Greenway along Four Mile Rd High $2.23 Tier 1
172 15th St Bent Ave Lincolnway Add Greenway along 15th St High $2.38 Tier 1
161 Dry Creek East Park Greenway Lincolnway Add Greenway along Dry Creek High $2.71 Tier 1
160 Dry Creek Campstool Rd East Park Greenway Add Greenway along Dry Creek High $3.39 Tier 1
180 New Greenway Lincolnway Ziemann Blvd Add Greenway connecting Freedom Elementary School with Lincolnway High $3.92 Tier 1
147 Whitney Rd Baldwin Dr East Park Greenway Add Greenway along Whitney Rd High $6.24 Tier 1
165 Crow Creek Morrie Ave Burlington Trail Rd Add Greenway along Crow Creek High $10.99 Tier 1
130 Van Buren Ave US 30 Dell Range Blvd New detached sidewalks High $0.45 Tier 2
94 Dell Range Blvd Yellowstone Rd College Dr Ped/bike/drainage enhancements High $0.52 Tier 2
177 New Greenway 5th St Parsely Blvd Add Park Greenway High $0.76 Tier 2
142 Prairie Ave Powderhouse Rd Cutoff Rd Add Greenway along Prairie Ave High $1.46 Tier 2
170 Cribbon Ave College Dr Jefferson Rd Add Greenway along Cribbon Ave High $2.03 Tier 2
115 Pershing Blvd Evans Ave Logan Ave Ped/bike enhancements, Add Greenway High $2.12 Tier 2
171 Walterscheid Blvd Prosser Rd Fox Farm Rd Add Greenway along Walterscheid Blvd High $2.15 Tier 2
131 Lincolnway Kelley Dr Ridge Rd Add Greenway underpass High $4.28 Tier 2
157 Antelope Ave/I-25 Pershing Blvd Storey Blvd Add Greenway along I-25 High $4.63 Tier 2
164 New Greenway HR Ranch Rd HR Ranch Rd Add Greenway between HR Ranch Rd and I-80 High $7.25 Tier 2
163 Campstool Rd Burlington Trail Rd Archer Pkwy Add Greenway along Campstool Rd High $12.61 Tier 2
15 Mountain Rd Plain View Rd Wild Bluff New greenway Low $0.61 Tier 3
181 Parsley Blvd WAPA Greenway Corridor 3rd St Add Greenway connecting WAPA Greenway corridor to 3rd St Mid $0.83 Tier 3
175 Partoyan Dr 2nd St 5th St Add Greenway along Partoyan Dr High $0.94 Tier 3
159 Henderson Dr Nationway Omaha Rd Add Greenway along Henderson Dr Mid $1.06 Tier 3
91 Lincolnway Reed Ave House Ave Streetscape, ped/bike enhancements, Add Greenway Low $1.29 Tier 3
151 Grove Dr Pershing Blvd Rock Springs St Add Greenway along Grover Dr Low $1.71 Tier 3
40 Missile Dr Lincolnway I-25 Streetscape, ped/bike enhancements, greenway underpass High $4.28 Tier 3
138 Four Mile Rd Yellowstone Rd Braehill Rd Add Greenway along Four Mile Rd High $8.36 Tier 3
(Total Cost 2025$) $98,131,945.00
Table 27. Active Transportation Projects by Implementation Tier
Active Transportation Projects
All projects are shown in YOE dollars, meaning the project costs have been inflated at a rate of 5% from current year dollars to values at the time of the anticipated construction for the project. Tier 1 has 14 projects, Tier 2 has 11 
projects, and Tier 3 has an additional eight projects, all of which is shown in Table 27. The locations of these projects can be seen in Figure 55.
Source: Cheyenne MPO
96
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Figure 55. Active Transportation Network Prioritization
Source: Cheyenne MPO
98
SYSTEM PERFORMANCE REPORT
SYSTEM 
PERFORMANCE 
REPORT1212
SYSTEM PERFORMANCE REPORT
FEDERAL PERFORMANCE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
In 2010, MAP-21 legislation introduced new requirements for performance management and performance-
based planning and programming to optimize the use of federal transportation funds. MAP-21 was replaced 
with the FAST Act in 2015, and the FAST Act was replaced with the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act 
(IIJA) in 2021. Both the FAST act and the IIJA continued the performance management and performance-based 
planning and programming requirements with some minor changes. To comply with the legislation, state 
DOTs and MPOs must apply a transportation performance management approach when carrying out their 
federally required transportation planning and programming activities. The requirements provide a systematic 
and objectives-driven approach to decision-making that supports national coals for federal-aid highway and 
public transportation programs. The five national priorities include:   
Safety
Congestion Reduction
Infrastructure Condition
System Reliability
Freight Movement
Achieve a significant reduction in traffic fatalities and serious 
injuries on all public roads.
Achieve a significant reduction in congestion on the National 
Highway System.
Maintain the highway infrastructure asset system in a state of 
good repair.
Improve the efficiency of the surface transportation system.
Improve the national freight network, strengthen the ability of 
rural communities to access national and international trade 
markets, and support regional economic development.
Cheyenne MPO Policy Committee has identified and approved four main priority areas in 2025. These priority 
areas include: Safety, Infrastructure Condition, System Reliability and Freight, and Transit Asset Management.  
For each priority, specific performance measures have designated targets. The Cheyenne MPO can choose 
to establish its own performance measures and targets or adopt the statewide measures and targets set by 
WYDOT. The System Performance Report outlines the current condition and performance of the transportation 
system concerning these performance measures and targets. 
99 100
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN SYSTEM PERFORMANCE REPORT
CHEYENNE MPO CURRENT PERFORMANCE
Safety
The five safety performance measures relate to the reduction of fatal and serious injury crashes, 
including non-motorized crashes. The Cheyenne MPO has agreed to adopt WYDOT’s targets for this 
priority area. The target and the current conditions for each of these measure are shown in Table 28. 
The Connect 2050 LRTP has identified safety-related projects to help the MPO achieve the goals 
established by WYDOT. The Cheyenne MPO will continue to collaborate with State and safety 
stakeholders to prioritize maintaining and enhancing the safety of the transportation system. 
Infrastructure Condition
The infrastructure condition performance measures are split between four that are pavement conditions 
and two that are bridge conditions. There is consideration for both Interstate Highway and non-interstate 
National Highway System (NHS) facilities. The Cheyenne MPO has agreed to adopt WYDOT’s targets as 
shown in the Table 29.
There are eight reconstruction projects and an additional 12 widening projects that have been identified 
that will improve the pavement and/or bridge condition.  
Table 28. Safety Performance Measures and Targets
Table 29. Infrastructure Condition Performance Measures and Targets
Measure Target Current 
Condition (2022)
Meeting 
Target
Number of fatalities 128 126 Yes
Rate of fatalities 1.35 1.25 Yes
Number of serious injuries 450 426 Yes
Rate of serious injuries 5.00 4.20 Yes
Number of non-motorized fatalities and number of non-motorized 
serious injuries 30 32 No
SYSTEM PERFORMANCE REPORT
System Reliability and Freight
This priority area has three performance measures. Two look into all travel while one focuses just on 
truck travel. For the measure that looks at all travel it uses a metric called Level of Travel Time Reliability 
(LOTTR) which describes the ratio of 80th percentile to 50th percentile travel time (with overall system 
performance then normalized for length, volume, and vehicle occupancy). An acceptable LOTTR is 
considered to be 1.5. 
For the truck specific measure, a metric called Truck Travel Time Reliability (TTTR) is used. This metric 
is the ratio of the 95th percentile to the 50th percentile travel time (weighted by segment lengths). The 
Cheyenne MPO has agreed to adopt WYDOT’s targets as shown in Table 30. 
Table 30. System Reliability and Freight Performance Measures and Targets
Table 31. Transit Asset Management Performance Measures and Targets
Transit Asset Management
The Transit Asset Management (TAM) is a business model that uses the condition of assets to guide 
investments into the transit network with the goal of keeping the network in a State of Good Repair. If 
the network is not within good repair there could be safety risks, decreased system reliability, higher 
maintenance costs, and lower system performance. The Cheyenne MPO has agreed to adopt WYDOT’s 
targets as shown in Table 31. 
The Connect 2050 LRTP update includes transit mobility as part of its overarching goals within the 
Connectivity goal. Proximity and connection to an existing transit route was used in the project 
prioritization process. Additionally there are improvements recommended to address transit demand and 
challenges with the existing system.
Measure Target Current 
Condition (2022)
Meeting 
Target
Percent of Interstate pavements in good condition >40% 61.5% Yes
Percent of Interstate pavements in poor condition <5% 1% Yes
Percent of non-interstate NHS pavements in good condition >40% 42.2% Yes
Percent of non-interstate NHS pavements in poor condition <10% 1.1% Yes
Percentage of NHS bridge in good condition >10% 22.9% Yes
Percentage of NHS bridges in poor condition <10% 4.3% Yes
Measure Target Current 
Condition (2022)
Meeting 
Target
Percent Interstate Time Travel Reliability LOTTR >96% 99.9% Yes
Percent Non-Interstate NHS Time Travel Reliability LOTTR >88% 91.8% Yes
Percent Interstate Truck Travel Time Reliability TTTR <1.28% 1.22% Yes
Measure Target Current 
Condition (2022)
Meeting 
Target
Transit rolling stock useful life benchmark (percent in poor state 
of good repair) <60% 18.0% Yes
Transit equipment service vehicles exceeding useful life 
benchmark (percent in poor state of good repair) <65% 100% Yes
Facilities useful life benchmark (percent of poor state of good 
repair) =0% 0% Yes
The system performance report evaluates the condition and the performance of the transportation system 
with respect the four priority areas. A summary of the performance report is found in Table 32 at the end of 
the section.  
Source: Cheyenne MPO TIP FY 26-29
Source: Cheyenne MPO TIP FY 26-29
Source: Cheyenne MPO TIP FY 26-29
Source: Cheyenne MPO TIP FY 26-29
101 102
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN SYSTEM PERFORMANCE REPORT
SYSTEM PERFORMANCE REPORT
Table 32. Cheyenne MPO Performance Measures and Targets Summary
Priority Area Measure Target Current Condition (2022) Connect 2050 Investments Contributing to Target
Safety 
Number of fatalities 128 126
Types of projects that address safety challenges include access 
control, bike enhancements, roadway widening, converting 
one-way streets to two-way streets, bridge reconstruction, 
construction of new roadways, and intersection realignment.
Rate of fatalities 1.35 1.25
Number of serious injuries 450 426
Rate of serious injuries 5.00 4.20
Number of non-motorized fatalities and number of non-
motorized serious injuries 30 28
Infrastructure Condition
Percent of Interstate pavements in good condition >40% 61.5%
Types of projects that improve the infrastructure  condition 
include those to reconstruct or widen roadways or specifically 
mitigate drainage issues on the roadway
Percent of Interstate pavements in poor condition <5% 1%
Percent of non-interstate NHS pavements in good condition >40% 42.2%
Percent of non-interstate NHS pavements in poor condition <10% 1.1%
Percentage of NHS bridge in good condition >10% 22.9%
Percentage of NHS bridges in poor condition <10% 4.3%
System Reliability and Freight
Percent Interstate Time Travel Reliability LOTTR >96% 99.9% Projects identified to help address current or future congestion 
include elevating the functional classification of some roadways 
to a higher use (i.e. elevating a roadway from a collector to an 
arterial), widening roadways, and improving intersections. 
Percent Non-Interstate NHS Time Travel Reliability LOTTR >88% 91.8%
Percent Interstate Truck Travel Time Reliability TTTR <1.28% 1.22%
Transit Asset Management
Percent Interstate Time Travel Reliability LOTTR >96% 99.9% By aligning with the TDP and closely coordinating with the 
Cheyenne Transit Program, this LRTP will support and advance 
the region’s transit goals and opportunities.
Percent Non-Interstate NHS Time Travel Reliability LOTTR >88% 91.8%
Percent Interstate Truck Travel Time Reliability TTTR <1.28% 1.22%
Source: Cheyenne MPO
APPENDICES
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE  
TRANSPORTATION PLAN
APPENDIX A. COMMUNITY SURVEY RESULTS
Cheyenne LRTP - Connect 2050
1 / 13
Q1 Please rank the following planning goals from 1 through 8. (1 = Most Important, 8 = Least
Important)
Answered: 89 Skipped: 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Safety:
Transportation
facilities...
Growth:
Stimulate
growth in th...
Integration:
Integrate
transportati...
Choices:
Provide travel
choices that...
Eﬃciency:
Optimize the
use of exist...
Connectivity:
Develop and
maintain a...
Resiliency:
Design
transportati...
Maintenance:
Extend the life
of the...
Cheyenne LRTP - Connect 2050
2 / 13
51.69%
46
8.99%
8
13.48%
12
13.48%
12
10.11%
9
1.12%
1
1.12%
1
0.00%
0
 
89
 
6.71
16.85%
15
21.35%
19
8.99%
8
3.37%
3
13.48%
12
6.74%
6
7.87%
7
21.35%
19
 
89
 
4.66
5.62%
5
16.85%
15
17.98%
16
19.10%
17
6.74%
6
14.61%
13
10.11%
9
8.99%
8
 
89
 
4.66
7.87%
7
13.48%
12
14.61%
13
22.47%
20
5.62%
5
12.36%
11
15.73%
14
7.87%
7
 
89
 
4.56
4.49%
4
10.11%
9
15.73%
14
12.36%
11
22.47%
20
20.22%
18
11.24%
10
3.37%
3
 
89
 
4.39
5.62%
5
14.61%
13
11.24%
10
16.85%
15
14.61%
13
15.73%
14
11.24%
10
10.11%
9
 
89
 
4.37
0.00%
0
3.37%
3
7.87%
7
4.49%
4
14.61%
13
14.61%
13
32.58%
29
22.47%
20
 
89
 
2.83
7.87%
7
11.24%
10
10.11%
9
7.87%
7
12.36%
11
14.61%
13
10.11%
9
25.84%
23
 
89
 
3.81
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 TOTAL SCORE
Safety: Transportation facilities provide safe travel options for all
residents and visitors.
Growth: Stimulate growth in the economy, development, and
tourism by providing a transportation system that accommodates
current and future demand for the movement of residents, visitors,
and goods.
Integration: Integrate transportation and land use decisions to
create and preserve neighborhoods that promote vibrant
community character and encourage active living.
Choices: Provide travel choices that are accessible to all
travelers, promote local mobility, and reduce the impacts of
transportation on the environment and neighborhoods.
Efficiency: Optimize the use of existing infrastructure and
opportunistic funding options to make prudent investments in the
transportation network to maintain system predictability.
Connectivity: Develop and maintain a multimodal transportation
system that provides direct, continuous, and safe connections
between local and regional destinations and services.
Resiliency: Design transportation facilities and networks so they
are secure and resilient to impacts from manmade or natural
disasters.
Maintenance: Extend the life of the transportation system and
promote fiscal responsibility by emphasizing maintenance over
system expansion.
Cheyenne LRTP - Connect 2050
3 / 13
Q2 How old are you?
Answered: 85 Skipped: 7
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Under 18
18-24 years old
25-34 years old
35-44 years old
45-54 years old
55-64 years old
65+ years old
Prefer not to
say
Cheyenne LRTP - Connect 2050
4 / 13
0.00% 0
3.53% 3
9.41% 8
20.00% 17
27.06% 23
23.53% 20
15.29% 13
1.18% 1
TOTAL 85
ANSWER CHOICES RESPONSES
Under 18
18-24 years old
25-34 years old
35-44 years old
45-54 years old
55-64 years old
65+ years old
Prefer not to say
Cheyenne LRTP - Connect 2050
5 / 13
42.17% 35
54.22% 45
0.00% 0
3.61% 3
Q3 What is your gender?
Answered: 83 Skipped: 9
TOTAL 83
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Female
Male
Other
Prefer not to
say
ANSWER CHOICES RESPONSES
Female
Male
Other
Prefer not to say
Cheyenne LRTP - Connect 2050
6 / 13
Q4 What is your ethnic background?
Answered: 84 Skipped: 8
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
White/Caucasian
Asian
Native
Hawaiian or
Paciﬁc...
Hispanic or
Latino
African-America
n
Native American
Unknown
Prefer not to
say
Two or more
Other (please
specify)
Cheyenne LRTP - Connect 2050
7 / 13
84.52% 71
0.00% 0
0.00% 0
3.57% 3
1.19% 1
1.19% 1
0.00% 0
2.38% 2
4.76% 4
2.38% 2
TOTAL 84
# OTHER (PLEASE SPECIFY) DATE
1 American 6/12/2025 4:19 PM
2 human 6/11/2025 7:22 PM
ANSWER CHOICES RESPONSES
White/Caucasian
Asian
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander
Hispanic or Latino
African-American
Native American
Unknown
Prefer not to say
Two or more
Other (please specify)
Cheyenne LRTP - Connect 2050
8 / 13
Q5 What is your annual household income?
Answered: 84 Skipped: 8
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
$0-$29,999
$30,000-$59,999
$60,000-$89,999
$90,000-$119,99
9
$120,000+
Prefer not to
say
Cheyenne LRTP - Connect 2050
9 / 13
2.38% 2
9.52% 8
19.05% 16
19.05% 16
33.33% 28
16.67% 14
TOTAL 84
ANSWER CHOICES RESPONSES
$0-$29,999
$30,000-$59,999
$60,000-$89,999
$90,000-$119,999
$120,000+
Prefer not to say
Cheyenne LRTP - Connect 2050
10 / 13
89.41% 76
71.76% 61
3.53% 3
5.88% 5
7.06% 6
Q6 Why do you travel around the Cheyenne region? (Check all that apply)
Answered: 85 Skipped: 7
Total Respondents: 85  
# OTHER (PLEASE SPECIFY) DATE
1 I shop, have doctor's, vision, and dentist appts in Cheyenne 7/18/2025 2:40 PM
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
I live in
Cheyenne
I work in
Cheyenne
I go to School
in Cheyenne
I visit
Cheyenne
Other (please
specify)
ANSWER CHOICES RESPONSES
I live in Cheyenne
I work in Cheyenne
I go to School in Cheyenne
I visit Cheyenne
Other (please specify)
Cheyenne LRTP - Connect 2050
11 / 13
2 Exercise on the Greenway 7/17/2025 12:13 PM
3 I live in Laramie County 6/24/2025 6:50 AM
4 Have moved but still visit on occassion. 6/13/2025 3:57 PM
5 Cheyenne doesn't have things that I want so I travel to neighboring cities 6/12/2025 7:37 AM
6 I play in Cheyenne 6/11/2025 4:07 PM
Cheyenne LRTP - Connect 2050
12 / 13
0.00% 0
0.00% 0
0.00% 0
0.00% 0
0.00% 0
0.00% 0
0.00% 0
0.00% 0
100.00% 19
0.00% 0
Q7 If you would like to receive email updates about Connect 2050, please provide your email
address.
Answered: 19 Skipped: 73
# NAME DATE
There are no responses.
# COMPANY DATE
There are no responses.
# ADDRESS DATE
There are no responses.
# ADDRESS 2 DATE
There are no responses.
# CITY/TOWN DATE
There are no responses.
ANSWER CHOICES RESPONSES
Name
Company
Address
Address 2
City/Town
State/Province
ZIP/Postal Code
Country
Email Address
Phone Number
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE  
TRANSPORTATION PLAN
APPENDIX B. PREVIOUSLY PROGRAMMED PROJECTS
LRTP ID Plan Project Type Project Type ID Description Name Programmed Year Project Estimate
1 23-27 CIP Intersection/Interchange ImprovementVehicle
Reconstruct the intersection of Dell Range & Rue Terre including construction
of storm pipe in lieu of open ditch to provide better intersection alignment
for north/south traffic. Additionally, include realignment of Rue Terre to
accommodate development Dell Range/Rue Terre Reconstrction 2027 4,000,000.00$
2 23-27 CIP Widen Roadway Vehicle
Increase capacity/widen to minor arterial for 0.41 miles, including mill and
overlay maintenance, and add upgrades as required on 19th St. from Logan
Ave. to Converse Ave. 19th St. to Logan Ave. to Converse Ave. 2024 1,800,000.00$
3 23-27 CIP/24-27 TIPReconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle
Realignment of 5th Street and rebuild of bridge to convey the 100 year old
floodway. Acquisition of property will likely be required. Additionally,
construction on greenway connector is anticipated along Deming Drive. 5th St Bridge (Crow Creek)/Deming Greenway2023-2024 4,585,995.00$
4 23-27 CIP/24-27 TIPIntersection/Interchange ImprovementVehicle Intersection reconfiguration at Fox Farm Rd. and Walterscheid Blvd. W. Fox Farm And Walterscheid 2024-2025 1,750,000.00$
5 23-27 CIP Intersection/Interchange ImprovementVehicle
Reconstruct the intersection of Ridge Rd. and Nationway with the addition of
new signals. Nationway Rehabilitation 2023 1,500,000.00$
6 23-27 CIP Ped/Bike Enhancements Active
As part of the Phase I implementation of the On Street Bicycle Plan, final
construction design using TAP funding was completed for the following
projects - 19th Street Funding is now needed to sign and stripe these
corridors. On Street Bicycle Facilties Phase II 2024-2027 40,000.00$
7 23-27 CIP Ped/Bike Enhancements Active
As part of the Phase I implementation of the On Street Bicycle Plan, final
construction design using TAP funding was completed for the following
projects - 20th Street Funding is now needed to sign and stripe these
corridors. On Street Bicycle Facilties Phase II 2024-2027 40,000.00$
8 23-27 CIP Ped/Bike Enhancements Active
As part of the Phase I implementation of the On Street Bicycle Plan, final
construction design using TAP funding was completed for the following
projects - Morrie Ave Funding is now needed to sign and stripe these
corridors. On Street Bicycle Facilties Phase II 2024-2027 40,000.00$
9 23-27 CIP Ped/Bike Enhancements Active
As part of the Phase I implementation of the On Street Bicycle Plan, final
construction design using TAP funding was completed for the following
projects - Airport Parkway Funding is now needed to sign and stripe these
corridors. On Street Bicycle Facilties Phase II 2024-2027 40,000.00$
10 23-27 CIP Ped/Bike Enhancements Active
As part of the Phase I implementation of the On Street Bicycle Plan, final
construction design using TAP funding was completed for the following
projects - Walterscheid Blvd Funding is now needed to sign and stripe these
corridors. On Street Bicycle Facilties Phase II 2024-2027 40,000.00$
11 23-27 CIP Ped/Bike Enhancements Active
As part of the Phase I implementation of the On Street Bicycle Plan, final
construction design using TAP funding was completed for the following
projects -  Prairie Ave Funding is now needed to sign and stripe these
corridors. On Street Bicycle Facilties Phase II 2024-2027 40,000.00$
12 23-27 CIP Ped/Bike Enhancements Active
As part of the Phase I implementation of the On Street Bicycle Plan, final
construction design using TAP funding was completed for the following
projects - Western Hills Funding is now needed to sign and stripe these
corridors. On Street Bicycle Facilties Phase II 2024-2027 40,000.00$
13 23-27 CIP Ped/Bike Enhancements Active
As part of the Phase I implementation of the On Street Bicycle Plan, final
construction design using TAP funding was completed for the following
projects - 15th Street. Funding is now needed to sign and stripe these
corridors. On Street Bicycle Facilties Phase II 2024-2027 40,000.00$
14 23-27 CIP Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle Westland Bridge Repair Westland Bridge Repair 2024 250,000.00$
15 23-27 CIP/24-27 TIPWiden Roadway Vehicle
Reconstruct/widen Dell Range Blvd. between College Dr. and Whitney Rd. to
accommodate anticipated traffic growth. East Dell Range Blvd Widening 2024 8,300,000.00$
16 23-27 CIP Ped/Bike Enhancements Active
Mill and overlay with concrete repair and ADA upgrades on Dell Range Blvd.
from Ridge Rd. to College Dr. East Dell Range Blvd Widening 2024 8,300,000.00$
17 23-27 CIP/ 24-27 TIPIntersection/Interchange ImprovementVehicle
Reconfigure intersection to allow for greater capacity especially for right turn
movements from northbound Yellowstone Rd. to eastbound Dell Range Blvd.
This will include concrete pavement, signal upgrades, and median
construction/reconstruction. Reconstruct Dell Range Blvd. and Yellowstone Rd 2025 2,000,000.00$
18 23-27 CIP Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle
Reconstruction of Converse Avenue (Pedestrian Overpass to Masonway)
including RC box culvert/bridge replacement & Dell Range Blvd. 
intersection Converse Avenue Phase 1 (Ped Overpass to Masonway2023-2025 4,900,000.00$
19 23-27 CIP Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle
WYDOT, Laramie County, and City of Cheyenne cooperative project for the
reconstruction of Whitney Road (Dell Range Blvd. to U.S. 30) Whitney Rd and Dell Range Blvd 2023-2024 4,751,350.00$
20 23-27 CIP Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle
WYDOT, Laramie County, and City of Cheyenne cooperative project for the
reconstruction of Dell Range Blvd. (Whitney Road to U.S. 30). Whitney Rd and Dell Range Blvd 2023-2024 4,751,350.00$
LRTP ID Plan Project Type Project Type ID Description Name Programmed Year Project Estimate
21 23-27 CIP New Roadway Vehicle
The scope-of-work for this project will include plan development, right-of-
way purchase, and construction of the extension of Storey Boulevard from
Whitney Road to Highland Road. This project will rely on a partnership with
Laramie County Storey Blvd Extension 2023-2024 1,845,000.00$
22 24-27 TIP Ped/Bike Enhancements Active Crosswalk Safety Improvements on Western Hills Blvd by McCormick JH Safe Routes to School Crosswalk 2024 545,000.00$
23 24-27 TIP Ped/Bike Enhancements Active Crosswalk Safety Improvements on Pershing Blvd at McCann Safe Routes to School Crosswalk 2024 545,000.00$
24 24-27 TIP Intersection/Interchange ImprovementVehicle Converse Ave Roundabout Operational Improvements Converse Ave Roundabout Operational Improvements 2024 500,000.00$
25 24-27 TIP Intersection/Interchange ImprovementVehicle Pershing Blvd. at Windmill Road Intersection Improvements Pershing Blvd. at Windmill Road Intersection Improvements2024 1,000,000.00$
26 24-27 TIP Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle Miller Lane Construction Miller Lane Construction 2024 250,000.00$
27 24-27 TIP Intersection/Interchange ImprovementActive
Intersection and lighting enhancements at Christensen Road, median
aesthetic enhancements along US 30, Greenway path re-alignment, and
relocation of a pedestrian underpass under US 30. US30 (Pershing Blvd. to Christensen Road) 2024 1,246,086.00$
28 24-27 TIP Railroad Enhancement Vehicle Reed Avenue Rail Corridor Reed Avenue Rail Corridor 2024-2027 15,040,000.00$
29 24-27 TIP Intersection/Interchange ImprovementVehicle
Converse Ave & Dell Range Intersection Improvement and Structure
Replacement Converse Ave & Dell Range Intersection Improvement and Structure Replacement2025 5,000,000.00$
30 24-27 TIP Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle 18th St Reconstruction (Reed Ave to House Ave) Design and Construction 18th St Reconstruction (Reed Ave to House Ave) Design and Construction2025 4,500,000.00$
31 24-27 TIP Intersection/Interchange ImprovementVehicle 19th St and Missile Intersection Realignment 19th St and Missile Intersection Realignment2025-2026 3,270,000.00$
32 24-27 TIP Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle Nationway with 12th St. Reconstruction: Logan to College Dr. Nationway with 12th St. Reconstruction: Logan to College Dr.2027 2,400,000.00$
33 24-27 TIP New Greenway Active US 30 Greenway Underpass Replacement US 30 Greenway Underpass Replacement 2024 1,500,000.00$
34 24-27 TIP New Greenway Active
South Park Subdivision at Walterscheid Greenway Connector: W. 3rd to W
4th Street South Park Subdivision at Walterscheid Greenway Connector:2024 120,000.00$
35 24-27 TIP New Greenway Active
Sun Valley Open Space to Kiwanis Park Greenway Connector: Approx. 2.2
mile Greenway Connection from Sun Valley trailhead east of College Dr. into
Kiwanis Community Park Sun Valley Open Space to Kiwanis Park Greenway Connector2025 2,000,000.00$
36 24-27 TIP New Greenway Active Christensen Road Greenway: Commerce Circle to Campstool Connector Christensen Road Greenway: 2025 250,000.00$
37 24-27 TIP New Greenway Active
Airport/Avenues Greenway Connector: Approx. .7 mile Greenway Connection
across southern edge of Cheyenne Regional Airport from Evans Ave. to
Airport Parkway then north the airport terminal bldg Airport/Avenues Greenway Connector 2026 1,000,000.00$
38 24-27 TIP New Greenway Active
Downtown Greenway Connector: Approx. 1.6 miles Greenway Connection
and Shared Use Roadway along 15th Street from Ames Ave. to Holliday Park
Underpass Downtown Greenway Connector 2027 1,500,000.00$
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE  
TRANSPORTATION PLAN
APPENDIX C. PREVIOUSLY RECOMMENDED PROJECTS
LRTP ID Plan Project Type Project Type Topic Description Name Plan Year
1 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge, New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active
Add sidewalks to match the optimal five-lane cross section per Figure 32, consolidate driveway
access to meet access management standards- Convert the intersection to RIRO; improve
Burlington Trail Rd between Industrial Rd and Campstool Rd; add a crosswalk across Industrial
Rd- Widen to add a third NB through lane and eight-foot sidewalks on both sides of the
roadway- Widen to add a third NB through lane and eight-foot sidewalks on both sides of the
roadway; narrow travel lanes as-needed to avoid bridge widening- Signalize the intersection
and add crosswalks on all legs- Widen to add a third NB through lane and eight-foot sidewalks
on both sides of the roadway- Widen the intersection to accommodate a second WB left-turn
lane and a third NB through lane; remove one SB left-turn lane to allow for permitted-protected
phasing; add crosswalks on all legs. Note: two SB left-turn lanes may be needed if queues
extend beyond the available storage length. If this is found to be needed, a new College Drive
viaduct over the railroad tracks may be needed to incorporate three through lanes.
I-80 Focus Area Improvements 2023
2 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge, New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active
Widen the roadway to the optimal five-lane cross-section per Figure 32, including sidewalks and
consolidate driveway access points to meet access management standards- Widen the roadway
to the optimal five-lane cross-section per Figure 32, including sidewalks and consolidate
driveway access points to meet access management standards; add a HAWK signal trail crossing
at Allison Draw- Widen the roadway to the optimal five-lane cross-section per Figure 32,
including sidewalks and consolidate driveway access points to meet access management
standards
Widening and Multimodal
improvements (High Plains
Rd/Lummis Dr to Fox Farm Rd)
2023
3 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge, New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active
Widen the roadway to the optimal five-lane cross-section per Figure 32, including sidewalks and
consolidate driveway access points to meet access management standards- Widen the roadway
to the optimal five-lane cross-section per Figure 32, including sidewalks and consolidate
driveway access points to meet access management standards- Widen the roadway to the
optimal five-lane cross-section per Figure 32, including sidewalks and consolidate driveway
access points to meet access management standards- Widen the roadway to the optimal five-
lane cross-section per Figure 32, including sidewalks and consolidate driveway access points to
meet access management standards- Widen the roadway to the optimal five-lane cross-section
per Figure 32, including sidewalks and consolidate driveway access points to meet access
management standards
Widening and Multimodal
improvements (South Greeley
Highway to High Plains Rd/Lummis Dr)
2023
4 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge, New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active
Align the future Wallick Rd extension to a new south leg (with left and shared through/right
lanes) and signal at Southwest Dr with service road access to the Love’s Travel Stop; convert the
Love’s Travel Stop/Sinclair Access to RIRO; add crosswalks on all legs of Southwest Dr and
sidewalk connections along College Dr- Construct an overpass over the BNSF, realign Bridle Bit
Rd to Bar X Rd and realign access points on the east side of the BNSF. Add sidewalks to match
the optimal three-lane cross-section per Figure 31
I-25 Focus Area and BNSF Crossing
Improvements 2023
5 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge, New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active
Consolidate driveway access points to meet access management standards and add sidewalks
to match the optimal three-lane cross-section per Figure 31- Construct a HAWK signal near the
intersection- Consolidate driveway access points to meet access management standards and
Multimodal and Access Improvements
(Parsley Blvd to South Greeley
Highway)
2023
6 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Iron Mountain Rd from Whitney Rd to Christensen Rd Iron Mountain Rd 2020
7 Connect 2045 Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge, Ped/Bike Enhancements Active Access Control, Ped/Bike enhancements on US 85 from Terry Ranch Rd to I-80 US 85 2020
8 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Christensen Rd from Riding Club Rd to Iron Mountain Rd Christensen Rd 2020
9 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Riding Club Rd from Ridge Rd to Whitney Rd Riding Club Rd 2020
10 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Four Mile Rd from Braehill Rd to Whitney Rd Four Mile Rd 2020
11 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Four Mile Rd from Christrensen Rd to Reese Rd Four Mile Rd 2020
12 Connect 2045 New Roadway, New Greenway Active Construct New Roadway and Greenway on Mountain Rd from Plainview Rd to Storey Blvd Mountain Rd 2020
13 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Chief Washakie Ave from Storey Blvd to Four Mile Rd Chief Washakie Ave 2020
14 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Summit Dr/Storey Blvd from College Dr to Whitney Rd Summit Dr/ Storey Blvd 2020
15 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Rue Terre from Current Dead End to Carlson St Rue Terre 2020
16 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Melton St from Powderhouse Rd to Fort Laramie Trl Melton St 2020
17 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Carlson St from Powderhouse Rd to Melton St Carlson St 2020
18 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Melton St from Rue Terre to Carlson St Melton St 2020
19 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on Archer Pkwy from Prairie Center Cir to US 30/I-80 Service Rd to 5 lanes Archer Pkwy 2020
20 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on US 30 from Westedt Rd to Archer Pkwy to 3 lanes US 30 2020
21 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle Construct New Roadway and RR overpass on Berwick Dr from Wallick Rd to I-80 Berwick Dr 2020
22 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Berwick Dr from I-80 to Veta Dr Berwick Dr 2020
23 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Berwick Dr from Veta Dr to I-25 Berwick Dr 2020
24 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Parsley Blvd from Terry Ranch Rd to College Dr Parsley Blvd 2020
25 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Division Ave from Dayshia Ln to Wallick Rd Division Ave 2020
26 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Division Ave from Wallick Rd to College Dr Division Ave 2020
27 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Wallick Rd from Clear Creek Pwky to New Collector Wallick Rd 2020
28 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Wallick Rd from US 85 to Ave C Wallick Rd 2020
29 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Wallick Rd from Ave C to Sweetgrass Dr Wallick Rd 2020
30 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Wallick Rd from New Collector to Parsely Blvd Wallick Rd 2020
31 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Wallick Rd from Parsley Blvd to Division Ave Wallick Rd 2020
32 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on High Plains Rd from I-25 to US 85 High Plains Rd 2020
LRTP ID Plan Project Type Project Type Topic Description Name Plan Year
33 Connect 2045/ Powderhouse Road Corridor 35 &
Study New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Powderhouse Rd from Rising Star to Lodgepole Creek Powderhouse Rd 2020
34 Connect 2045/ Powderhouse Road Corridor 35 &
Study New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Powderhouse Rd from Lodgepole Creek to Ford Rd Powderhouse Rd 2020
35 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Converse Ave from Storey Blvd to Four Mile Rd Converse Ave 2020
36 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on Dell Range Blvd from Van Buren Ave to Whitney Rd to 5 lanes Dell Range Blvd 2020
37 Connect 2045 Ped/Bike Enhancements Active Improve Roundtop Rd to Minor Arterial from Otto Rd to I-80 and ped/bike enhancements Roundtop  Rd 2020
38 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on Roundtop Rd from Horizon Dr to Happy Jack Rd Roundtop  Rd 2020
39 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on Roundtop Rd from I-80 to Horizon Dr to 5 lanes Roundtop  Rd 2020
40 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on Happy Jack Rd from Roundtop Rd to I-25 to 3 lanes and a new greenway
underpass Happy Jack Rd 2020
41 Connect 2045 Ped/Bike Enhancements Active Streetscape , Bike/Ped enhancements and a new Greenway on Missile Dr from Lincolnway to I-
25 Missile Dr 2020
42 Connect 2045 Ped/Bike Enhancements Active Improve Terry Ranch Rd from I-25 from US 85 to Minor Arterial and Ped/bike enhancements Terry Ranch Rd 2020
43 Connect 2045 Ped/Bike Enhancements Active Access Control, Ped/Bike enhancements on College Dr from I-25 to US 85 College Dr 2020
44 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on College Dr from Fox Farm Rd To Lincolnway to 7 lanes, also improve
intersection at Industrial Dr College Dr 2020
45 Connect 2045/ Powderhouse Road Corridor 35 &
Study Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on Powderhouse Rd from Storey Blvd to Iron Mountain Rd to 3 lanes Powderhouse Rd 2020
46 Connect 2045/ East Allison Rd Corridor Study Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge, New Bike Lanes Active Reconstruct roadway on Allison Rd from Us 85 to Ave C, Add Bike Lanes and Curb and Gutter Allison Rd 2020
47 Connect 2045/ East Allison Rd Corridor Study New Roadway, New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active New Roadway on Allison Rd from Ave C to Energy Dr, Add Sidewalks Allison Rd 2020
48 Connect 2045/ East Allison Rd Corridor Study New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Allison Rd from College Dr to Lummis Dr. Allison Rd 2020
49 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway of Fox Farm Rd from College Dr and Allison Rd Fox Farm Rd 2020
50 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Lummis Dr from College Dr and Allison Rd Lummis Dr 2020
51 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Lummis Dr from Allison Rd and Campstool Rd Lummis Dr 2020
52 Connect 2045 Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge, New Greenway Active Reconstruct roadway, improve Intersections, add greenway on Burlington Trl from Industrial Rd
to Campstool Rd Burlington Trl 2020
53 Connect 2045 Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle Reconstruct Roadway on Burlington Trl from College Dr to Industrial/HR Ranch Rd Burlington Trl 2020
54 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on High Plains Rd from US 85 to College Dr High Plains Rd 2020
55 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Beckle Rd from Reese Rd to Westedt Rd Beckle Rd 2020
56 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Van Buren Ave from Carmel Dr to Storey Blvd Van Buren Ave 2020
57 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Van Buren Ave from Storey Blvd to Child Creek Van Buren Ave 2020
58 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Van Buren Ave from Child Creek to Four Mile Rd Van Buren Ave 2020
59 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Ridge Rd from Riding Club Rd to Iron Mountain Rd Ridge Rd 2020
60 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Horizon Dr from Roundtop Rd to Berwick Dr Horizon Dr 2020
61 Connect 2045 New Roadway Vehicle New Roadway on Horizon Dr from Berwick Dr to Lincolnway Horizon Dr 2020
62 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on 12th st to 5 lanes from College Dr to Adams Ave 12th st 2020
63 Connect 2045 New Greenway Active Improve Ridge Rd to Arterial and add a trail from Lincolnway to Dell Range Blvd Ridge Rd 2020
64 Connect 2045 Ped/Bike Enhancements Active Ped/Bike Enhancements on Yellowstone Rd from Dell Range Blvd to Four Mile Rd Yellowstone Rd 2020
65 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on Storey Blvd to 5 lanes from Yellowstone Rd to Converse Ave Storey Blvd 2020
66 Connect 2045/ Walterscheid Blvd Reconstruction
Plan Widen Roadway, Ped/Bike Enhancements Vehicle Widen Roadway on Walterscheid/Deming to 5 lanes from College Dr to 5th St. Add Bike Lanes,
sidewalks and a greenway by reducing landscaping to 8 ft. Walterscheid 2020
67 Connect 2045 Ped/Bike Enhancements Active Streetscape, Bike/Ped Enhancements on Lincolnway from Reed Ave to House St Lincolnway 2020
68 Connect 2045 Mitigate Drainage Issues, New Greenway Active Improve Parsley Blvd to Minor Arterial from College Dr to Ames Ave. Also Mitigate Drainage
issues and add greenway Parsley Blvd 2020
69 Connect 2045 Ped/Bike Enhancements Active Enhance ped/bike/drainage on Dell Range Blvd to Yellowstone Rd from College Dr Dell Range Blvd 2020
70 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on Pershing Blvd to 5 lanes from US 30 to Christensen Rd Pershing Blvd 2020
71 Connect 2045 Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle Reconstruct Roadway on Windmill Rd from Pershing Blvd to Rock Springs St Windmill Rd 2020
72 Connect 2045 Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle Convert Carey Ave to a two-way street from 15th St to 2nd Ave Carey Ave 2020
73 Connect 2045 Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle Convert Pioneer Ave to Two-way street from 15th st to 2nd ave Pioneer Ave 2020
74 Connect 2045 Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle Convert 19th St to Two-way street from Dey Ave to Logan Ave 19th St 2020
75 Connect 2045 Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle Convert 20th St to Two-way street from Dey Ave to Logan Ave 20th St 2020
76 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen the northbound off-ramp to 4 lanes for I-25 at Randall Ave I-25 2020
77 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Add Right turn lane to EB off-ramp on I-80 at  US 85 I-80 2020
78 Connect 2045/Southwest Drive Corridor Plan Mitigate Drainage Issues, New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active Improve Southwest Dr to collector from College Dr to Lincolnway. Also Mitigate Drainage
Issues, and add a new sidewalk Southwest Dr 2020
79 Connect 2045 Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on Whitney Rd to 3 lanes from Dell Range Blvd to Storey Blvd Whitney Rd 2020
80 Connect 2045 Ped/Bike Enhancements Active Enhance ped/bike on Pershing Blvd from Evans Ave to Logan Ave Pershing Blvd 2020
81 East Pershing Blvd Plan Widen Sidewalk/Bridge Active 6' sidewalk will be continous throughout the section with wider parts along diffrerent sections
from US 30 to Dry Creek East Pershing Blvd 2022
82 East Pershing Blvd Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Deceleration lanes for Right turns will be added at Grasslands Parkway and Taft/Polk Ave East Pershing Blvd 2022
83 East Pershing Blvd Plan Widen Sidewalk/Bridge Active Widen side walk from Dry Creek to Whitney Rd East Pershing Blvd 2022
84 East Pershing Blvd Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Deceleration lanes for right turns will be added at Saddle Ridge, Farthing Rd, and Dixon Dr East Pershing Blvd 2022
85 East Park Greenway Underpass & Drainage Plan New Greenway Active New greenway and Gravel path along Whitney Rd and crosses Union Pacific Railroad Kiwanis East park Greenway 2022
LRTP ID Plan Project Type Project Type Topic Description Name Plan Year
86 East Park Greenway Underpass & Drainage Plan New Greenway Active New Greenway coming from the Cheyenne Business Parkway through an underpass Cheyenne Business Parkway
Greenway 2022
87 Southwest Drive Corridor Plan New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active 2-lane Collector Road with 70' & 80' ROW along Broken Arrow Rd. Add sidewalk on Eastern Side
along Broken Arrow Rd. Add Bike Lanes on Broken Arrow Rd. Southwest Dr 2024
88 Southwest Drive Corridor Plan New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active 2-lane Rural Road within existing 80' & 60' ROW Woodenshoe Dr & Lindlom Court. Add
Sidewalks on Woodenshoe Dr & Lindlom Ct Southwest Dr 2024
89 Southwest Drive Corridor Plan Ped/Bike Enhancements, New Greenway Active 2-lane Collector Road with 70' ROW with Swan Ranch Rd. Add a Greenway and Bike lanes to
Swan Ranch Rd. Southwest Dr 2024
90 Van Buren Ave Corridor Plan New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active New detattched sidewalks along Van Buren Ave Van Buren Ave 2023
91 Van Buren Ave Corridor Plan Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle Roadway Realignment along Van Buren Ave from Laramie St to US 30 Van Buren Ave 2023
92 Walterscheid Blvd Reconstruction Plan Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen Roadway on Walterscheid Blvd at I-80 Bridges to 3 lanes Walterscheid Blvd 2022
93 CO-WY Transit Feasibility Study New Transit Route Transit Transit alignment following I-25 S to Wellington with an optional stop at Wellington I-25 2023
94 CTP Transit Development Plan New Transit Route Transit
Route A: transit facility to downtown via Lincoln Way and then to Frontier Mall using Warren
and Central between downtown and Dell Range Boulevard. Route A will serve Frontier Mall and
end at the north Walmart.
Lincolnway 2023
95 CTP Transit Development Plan New Transit Route Transit Route B: operate between downtown and the north Walmart via Lincoln Way, Pershing
Boulevard, College Drive, and Dell Range Boulevard. Lincolnway 2023
96 CTP Transit Development Plan New Transit Route Transit Route C: operate from downtown along Lincoln Way, on College Drive to Pershing Boulevard,
serving the area east of College Drive and then to the east Walmart. Lincolnway 2023
97 CTP Transit Development Plan New Transit Route Transit Route D:  follow Ames Avenue and Deming Drive from downtown to East Jefferson and South
Greeley. The route will then follow College Drive to the college and the east Walmart. Ames Ave 2023
98 Connect 2045 Mitigate Drainage Issues Vehicle Mitigate Drainage issues on I-25 from College Dr to I-80 I-25 2020
99 Connect 2045 Mitigate Drainage Issues Vehicle Mitigate Drainage Issues on US 85 from I-80 to 5th St. Also 5th St Intersection US 85 2020
100 Connect 2045 Mitigate Drainage Issues Vehicle Mitigate Drainage issues on Campstool Rd from Burlington Trl to HR Ranch Rd Campstool Rd 2020
101 Connect 2045 Mitigate Drainage Issues Vehicle Mitigate Drainage Issues on Henderson Dr from Nationway to Homestead Ave Henderson Dr 2020
102 Connect 2045 Mitigate Drainage Issues, New Greenway Active Mitigate Drainage Issues on Lincolnway from Henderson Dr to Ridge Rd. Also add Greenway
underpass Lincolnway 2020
103 Converse Ave Improvement Plan Widen Roadway Vehicle Widen to 4 lanes from Dell Range Blvd and Mason Way Converse Ave 2021
104 Converse Ave Improvement Plan New Roadway Vehicle New road to connect Converse Ave with Apache Rd and Crane Bluff Rd Converse Ave 2021
105 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle
The southbound left-turn lane and northbound left-turn lane at the College Drive I-25
Southbound and Northbound Ramps, respectively, are recommended to be improved from a
yield condition to be a signalized turning movement. Doing so will address the existing safety
conflict between these turning movements and the eastbound and westbound through
movements on College Drive
I-25 Southbound and Northbound
Ramps 2023
106 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle The first alternative would also construct a second eastbound through lane. The second
alternative would provide channelized right-turn lanes with those right
South Greeley Highway and College Dr
intersection Alternative 1 2023
107 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle
Avenue C, Goodnight Trail, and Sweetgrass Drive along College Drive are all anticipated to
require signalization by 2030. The Sweetgrass development is expected to be responsible for all
improvements at these intersections in this horizon, as that development creates the need for
these improvements. In addition to signalization, a 200-foot southbound left-turn lane should
be installed along Avenue C. Some turn lanes at these three intersections would also need to be
extended to accommodate expected queues.
Sweetgrass Area 2023
108 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle
The eastbound approach at Fox Farm Road should be striped to provide a left-turn lane and a
shared through/right-turn lane by this horizon, which can likely be accommodated within the
existing pavement width.
Fox Farm Rd 2023
109 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle
The intersection is recommended to be restricted to right-in/right-out turning movements only.
With this turning movement restriction at the intersection, it is expected that vehicles can
reroute along Industrial Road to Burlington Trail Road and then make left-turning movements
to and from Campstool Way. Burlington Trail Road is currently unpaved and may need to be
improved for this recommendation to be implemented. This improvement could take place
prior to the 2030 horizon as determined to be needed based on existing traffic and queueing
issues.
Industrial Rd 2023
110 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle
WYDOT is anticipated to improve the I-80 EB Ramps in the next several years, which would
include the addition of a second eastbound left-turn lane along the off-ramp. The I-80
Westbound Ramps intersection with College Drive is expected to require signalization by 2030
to continue operating at an acceptable level of service. The westbound left-turn lane along
Campstool Way may need to be extended to accommodate expected queues.
I-80 Interchange 2023
111 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle
Widen the intersection to dual left-turn lanes and two through lanes on all approaches plus a
right-turn lane on the NB approach; widen College Dr to the west to accommodate a second
WB through lane which would taper to a single lane within 750’
South Greeley Highway Improvements 2023
112 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle
Widen the intersection to include dual left-turn lanes and one shared through/right-turn lane
on the EB approach; one le Ō-turn lane, one through lane, and one shared through/right turn
lane on the NB approach; one left-turn lane, one through lane, and one right-turn lane on the
WB approach; one le Ō-turn lane, one through lane, and one channelized, free right turn lane
on the SB approach
High Plains Road/Lummis Dr
Improvements 2023
113 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Widen the EB approach to include dual le Ō turn lanes, a through lane, and a right-turn lane;
add crosswalks to all legs Fox Farm Rd Improvements 2023
LRTP ID Plan Project Type Project Type Topic Description Name Plan Year
114 College Drive Planning and Traffic Study Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Widen the north and south legs to have separate left-, through, and right-turn lanes Walersceid Blvd/ Division Ave
Improvements 2023
115 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Improve Intersection Capacity at Converse Ave at Dell Range Blvd Converse Ave 2020
116 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Improve interchange at I-80 and Roundtop Rd I-80 2020
117 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Widen DDI at I-25 and College Dr I-25 2020
118 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Reconstruct interchange at I-80 and I-25 I-80 2020
119 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Improve intersection capacity at Yellowstone Rd and Dell Range Blvd Yellowstone Rd 2020
120 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Realign Pershing Blvd from Concord Rd to Logan Ave Pershing Blvd 2020
121 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Improve Intersection Capacity on Dell Range Blvd at College Dr Dell Range Blvd 2020
122 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Improve Intersection Capacity at Dell Range Blvd and Powderhouse Rd Dell Range Blvd 2020
123 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Imporove Intersection Capacity at Dell Range Blvd and Prairie Ave Dell Range Blvd 2020
124 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Improve Intersection Capacity at Dell Range Blvd and Rue Terre Dell Range Blvd 2020
125 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Improve Intersection Capacity at Dell Range Blvd and Stillwater Ave Dell Range Blvd 2020
126 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Improve Intersection Capacity at Dell Range Blvd and Walmart Dell Range Blvd 2020
127 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Construct New Interchange at I-80 and Berwick Dr I-80 2020
128 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Signalize SB Ramps at I-25 and Cental Ave Intersection I-25 2020
129 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Signalize WB Ramps at I-80 and College Dr I-80 2020
130 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Construct New Interchange at I-25 and Wallick Rd I-25 2020
131 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Realign Old Happy Jack /19th st intersection with Stinson Ave and Dey Ave Old Happy Jack 2020
132 Connect 2045 Reconstruct Roadway/Bridge Vehicle Reconstruct Bridge at 9th St and Crow Creek 9th St 2020
133 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Realign intersection at College Dr and Four Mile Rd College Dr 2020
134 Connect 2045 Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Reconstruct intersection at Fox Farm Rd and Morrie Ave Fox Farm Rd 2020
135 Connect 2045 Railroad Enhancement Vehicle Grade Separate railroad crossing on College Dr at BNSF Railroad College Dr 2020
136 East Pershing Blvd Plan Widen Sidewalk/Bridge Active The Bridge will be widened to attach sidewalks at Dry Creek East Pershing Blvd 2022
137 East Pershing Blvd Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle The Intersection with Whitney Rd will need to be expanded due to increased traffic East Pershing Blvd 2022
138 Southwest Drive Corridor Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Turn Lanes as needed along Broken Arrow Rd and Swan Ranch Rd Southwest Dr 2024
139 Van Buren Ave Corridor Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Mini-Roundabout at Van BurenAve and Green River St Van Buren Ave 2023
140 Van Buren Ave Corridor Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Mini-Roundabout at Van Buren Ave and Rawlins St Van Buren Ave 2023
141 Van Buren Ave Corridor Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle New Traffic Signal at Van Buren Ave and Dell Range Blvd, New curb and gutter Van Buren Ave 2023
142 Walterscheid Blvd Reconstruction Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle
From Walterscheid: Eastbound Left Turn, Southbound Thru, and Westbound Right Turn. From
Division: Eastbound Right Tur, Northbound Thru, and Westbound Left Turn. Remove and
Replace one signal pole at northwest corner of intersection
Walterscheid Blvd 2022
143 Walterscheid Blvd Reconstruction Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Southbound Left Turn in Median At Prosser Rd Walterscheid Blvd 2022
144 Walterscheid Blvd Reconstruction Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle From Walterscheid: Left Turn, Thru, Right Turn for eastbound and westbound. Remove and
replace signals to accommodate auxiliary lanes at Allson Rd Walterscheid Blvd 2022
145 Walterscheid Blvd Reconstruction Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Northbound Right Turn, Southbound Right Turn in Median at Jefferson Rd Walterscheid Blvd 2022
146 Walterscheid Blvd Reconstruction Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Roundabout with pre-emptive signal on west leg for eastbound traffic, and auxiliary right turn
for eastbound from south leg Walterscheid Blvd 2022
147 Walterscheid Blvd Reconstruction Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement Vehicle Roundabout at Deming Dr Walterscheid Blvd 2022
148 Walterscheid Blvd Reconstruction Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement, New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active New Crosswalks at intersections and mid-block at Rossman Elementary School Walterscheid Blvd 2022
149 Connect 2045 Mitigate Drainage Issues Vehicle Mitigate Drainage issues on Prairie Ave at Dry Creek Prairie Ave 2020
150 Connect 2045 Mitigate Drainage Issues Vehicle Mitigate Drainage Issues on Education Dr at Dry Creek Education Dr 2020
151 Connect 2045 Mitigate Drainage Issues, New Greenway Active Mitigate Drainage Issues on Hilltop Ave at Dry Creek. Also Add trail. Hilltop Ave 2020
152 Connect 2045 Mitigate Drainage Issues, New Greenway Active Mitigate Drainage Issues on Campstool Rd at Dry Creek. Also Add Greenway Underpass Campstool Rd 2020
153 Connect 2045 Mitigate Drainage Issues Vehicle Mitigate Drainage Issues on Seminoe Rd at Dry Creek Seminoe Rd 2020
154 Converse Ave Improvement Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement, New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active Install Traffic Signal and crosswalks at Converse Ave and Mason Way Converse Ave 2021
155 Converse Ave Improvement Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement, New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active Install Traffic Signal and crosswalks at Converse Ave and Point Bluff Converse Ave 2021
156 Converse Ave Improvement Plan Intersection/Interchange Improvement, New Sidewalk/Crosswalk Active Install a Roundabout and crosswalks at Converse Ave and Carlson St Converse Ave 2021
157 Safe Routes to School Plan SRTS High Priority Projects Active
High Priority projects include: Install bollards and/or in-street signing, Construct curb
extensions, Narrow width of drive lanes to minimum standard, Install vertical streetscape
elements. Etc.
Central School Triad 2024
158 Safe Routes to School Plan SRTS High Priority Projects Active
High Priority projects include: Install bollards and/or in-street signing, Construct curb
extensions, Narrow width of drive lanes to minimum standard, Install vertical streetscape
elements. Etc.
East School Triad 2024
159 Safe Routes to School Plan SRTS High Priority Projects Active
High Priority projects include: Install bollards and/or in-street signing, Construct curb
extensions, Narrow width of drive lanes to minimum standard, Install vertical streetscape
elements. Etc.
South School Triad 2024
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE  
TRANSPORTATION PLAN
APPENDIX D. ROADWAY CAPITAL PROJECT PRIORITIZATION
Proj. No.* Project Name
Weighted
Safety &
Security Score
Weighted
Operational
Efficiency Score
Weighted
Preservation
and Resiliency
Score
Weighted
Livability and
Economic
Growth Score
Weighted
Multimodal
Integration
Score
Weighted
Bonus Score
Project
Prioritization
Score
Priority Level
95 Dell Range Blvd and College Dr Capacity Improvements 90 61 80 50 25 62.50 70.7 High
122 Hilltop Dr Drainage Improvements 54 25 80 50 25 50.00 52.4 High
4 US 85 Widening 14 89 30 50 63 12.50 47.7 High
6 College Dr Widening 6 67 30 100 50 37.50 47.5 High
118 US 85 Drainage Improvements 0 57 80 50 0 12.50 42.4 High
5 Fox Farm Rd Widening 1 61 40 50 63 50.00 41.6 High
89 5th St Improvements 13 71 70 0 25 12.50 41.6 High
7 College Dr Widening 0 72 30 50 50 37.50 39.8 High
43 College Dr Improvements 4 46 30 100 38 12.50 39.6 High
106 9th St Bridge Reconstruction 53 9 80 0 25 25.00 39.3 High
93 Parsley Blvd Widening 1 38 80 0 75 37.50 39.1 High
123 Campstool Rd Drainage Improvements 0 18 80 50 50 37.50 38.8 High
2 College Dr Widening 4 67 30 50 50 12.50 38.4 High
111 I-80/US 85 Capacity Improvements 4 75 30 50 0 25.00 35.9 High
126 Lincolnway Drainage Improvements 1 30 80 0 50 50.00 35.2 High
1 I-25 and Central Ave Capacity Improvements 0 63 30 50 0 62.50 34.0 High
87 Yellowstone Rd and Dell Range Blvd Capacity Improvements2 72 30 0 50 62.50 34.0 High
127 Fox Farm Rd and Morrie Ave Intersection Improvements 11 60 30 0 63 50.00 33.8 High
36 Converse Ave/Dell Range Blvd Capacity Improvements 5 70 30 0 25 100.00 33.7 High
112 Southwest Dr Reconstruction 0 27 90 0 13 25.00 31.7 High
66 High Plains Rd Roadway Connection 0 21 30 100 25 12.50 30.9 High
47 I-25/I-80 Interchange Improvements 0 48 30 50 0 75.00 30.9 High
120 Prairie Ave Drainage Improvements 0 28 80 0 25 25.00 30.7 High
30 Wallick Rd Roadway Connection 0 21 30 100 13 25.00 30.2 High
3 12th St Widening 7 71 30 0 25 0.00 29.5 High
21 Fort Laramie Trl Roadway Connection 0 13 30 100 13 25.00 28.3 High
69 Murray Rd Roadway Connection 0 12 30 100 25 0.00 27.9 High
27 Parsley Blvd Roadway Connection 0 0 30 100 38 25.00 27.5 High
44 Powderhouse Rd Widening 4 53 30 0 25 62.50 27.3 High
104 Windmill Rd Reconstruction 10 58 20 0 25 50.00 27.0 High
72 Cumulus Dr Roadway Connection 0 12 30 100 13 0.00 26.7 High
110 I-25/Randall Ave Capacity Improvements 0 41 30 50 0 12.50 25.9 High
174 Round Top Rd Greenway 0 21 30 50 25 62.50 25.8 High
26 Berwick Dr Roadway Connection 0 5 30 100 13 12.50 25.7 High
24 US 30 Widening 9 39 30 0 50 25.00 25.7 High
125 Henderson Dr Drainage Improvements 0 0 90 0 25 12.50 25.7 Mid
119 Campstool Rd Drainage Improvements 0 14 80 0 0 37.50 25.3 Mid
114 Whitney Rd Widening 0 36 20 50 25 25.00 25.3 Mid
124 Seminoe Rd Drainage Improvements 0 10 80 0 0 50.00 25.0 Mid
71 Cirrus Dr Roadway Connection 0 5 30 100 13 0.00 25.0 Mid
79 Horizon Dr Roadway Connection 0 2 30 100 13 12.50 24.9 Mid
20 Carlson St Roadway Connection 0 12 30 50 25 87.50 24.8 Mid
63 Lummis Dr Roadway Connection 0 23 30 50 25 25.00 24.4 Mid
42 College Dr Improvements 4 50 30 0 25 12.50 24.2 Mid
121 Education Dr Drainage Improvements 0 9 80 0 0 37.50 24.1 Mid
32 Ave C Roadway Connection 0 19 30 50 25 25.00 23.5 Mid
29 Wallick Rd Roadway Connection 5 23 30 50 13 0.00 23.3 Mid
8 Division Ave Roadway Connection 0 47 30 0 25 25.00 23.1 Mid
18 Rue Terre Roadway Connection 0 7 30 50 13 100.00 23.0 Mid
90 Pershing Blvd and Concord Rd/Logan Ave Realignment 1 51 20 0 0 100.00 23.0 Mid
Vehicular Project Prioritization
Safety & Security Public PriorityOperational EfficiencyPreservation and ResiliencyLivability and Economic GrowthMultimodal IntegrationLocation/Project Information
Proj. No.* Project Name
Weighted
Safety &
Security Score
Weighted
Operational
Efficiency Score
Weighted
Preservation
and Resiliency
Score
Weighted
Livability and
Economic
Growth Score
Weighted
Multimodal
Integration
Score
Weighted
Bonus Score
Project
Prioritization
Score
Priority Level
Vehicular Project Prioritization
Safety & Security Public PriorityOperational EfficiencyPreservation and ResiliencyLivability and Economic GrowthMultimodal IntegrationLocation/Project Information
48 York Ave Improvements 0 24 30 50 13 12.50 22.9 Mid
67 Sweetgrass Dr Roadway Connection 0 14 10 100 13 0.00 22.1 Mid
33 High Plains Rd Roadway Connection 0 13 30 50 25 12.50 21.3 Mid
117 I-80/Clear Creek Drainage Improvements 0 43 30 0 0 50.00 20.9 Mid
17 Frontier Mall Dr Roadway Connection 0 0 30 50 25 62.50 20.6 Mid
68 Murray Rd Roadway Connection 0 12 30 50 25 0.00 20.4 Mid
105 I-80/Berwick Dr Interchange 11 33 30 0 0 25.00 19.7 Mid
59 Allison Rd Reconstruction 2 32 30 0 13 37.50 19.0 Mid
25 Berwick Dr Roadway Connection 0 8 30 50 13 12.50 18.9 Mid
46 I-80/Roundtop Interchange Improvements 0 28 30 0 25 25.00 18.4 Mid
58 Julianna Rd Roadway Connection 0 8 30 50 13 0.00 18.2 Mid
73 New N-S Collector Roadway Connection 0 7 30 50 13 0.00 18.0 Mid
70 Nation Rd Roadway Connection 0 2 30 50 25 0.00 18.0 Mid
75 Van Buren Ave Roadway Connection 0 19 10 50 13 25.00 17.4 Mid
31 Terry Ranch Rd Roadway Connection 26 9 30 0 13 0.00 17.3 Mid
54 New N-S Collector Roadway Connection 0 1 30 50 13 12.50 17.1 Mid
102 Gannett Peak Dr Roadway Connection 0 1 30 50 13 12.50 17.0 Mid
82 New N-S Collector (East) Roadway Connection 0 2 30 50 13 0.00 16.7 Mid
83 New N-S Collector (West) Roadway Connection 0 1 30 50 13 0.00 16.6 Mid
78 Veta Dr Roadway Connection 0 1 30 50 13 0.00 16.5 Low
65 Burlington Trl Roadway Connection 0 1 50 0 25 25.00 16.4 Low
101 Bridger Peak Rd Roadway Connection 0 0 30 50 13 0.00 16.3 Low
80 New N-S Collector Roadway Connection 0 0 30 50 13 0.00 16.3 Low
16 Chief Washakie Ave Roadway Connection 0 14 30 0 25 37.50 15.4 Low
12 Four Mile Rd Roadway Connection 0 6 30 0 25 62.50 14.5 Low
35 Converse Ave Roadway Connection 0 13 30 0 13 50.00 14.4 Low
37 Roundtop Rd Widening 0 12 30 0 25 25.00 14.3 Low
28 Division Ave Roadway Connection 0 8 30 0 25 25.00 13.4 Low
128 Swan Ranch Rd Roadway Connection 0 10 30 0 25 12.50 13.2 Low
60 Allison Rd Roadway Connection 0 10 30 0 13 37.50 13.2 Low
76 Rock Springs St Roadway Connection 0 10 30 0 13 37.50 13.1 Low
52 New N-S Collector Roadway Connection 0 14 30 0 13 12.50 13.0 Low
34 Powderhouse Rd Roadway Connection 0 9 30 0 13 37.50 12.9 Low
107 College Dr Curve Realignment 0 12 30 0 0 37.50 12.3 Low
57 Apple St Roadway Connection 0 14 30 0 13 0.00 12.2 Low
62 Fox Farm Rd Roadway Connection 0 11 30 0 13 12.50 12.2 Low
11 Riding Club Rd Roadway Connection 0 5 30 0 13 25.00 11.3 Low
13 Four Mile Rd Roadway Connection 0 3 30 0 13 25.00 10.9 Low
113 Tranquility Rd Reconstruction 0 1 30 0 13 37.50 10.8 Low
61 Allison Rd Roadway Connection 0 5 30 0 13 12.50 10.6 Low
77 Ridge Rd Roadway Connection 0 3 30 0 13 12.50 10.2 Low
55 Remington Dr Roadway Connection 0 2 30 0 13 12.50 9.9 Low
81 Broken Arrow Rd Roadway Connection 0 2 30 0 13 12.50 9.9 Low
50 York Ave Roadway Connection 0 2 30 0 13 12.50 9.9 Low
14 Mountain Rd Roadway Connection 0 4 30 0 13 0.00 9.8 Low
84 New E-W Collector Roadway Connection 0 1 30 0 13 12.50 9.7 Low
74 Beckle Rd Roadway Connection 0 3 30 0 13 0.00 9.5 Low
53 New E-W Collector Roadway Connection 0 0 30 0 13 12.50 9.5 Low
51 New N-S Collector Roadway Connection 0 0 30 0 13 12.50 9.5 Low
10 Christiansen Rd Roadway Connection 0 2 30 0 13 0.00 9.2 Low
9 Iron Mountain Rd  Roadway Connection 0 2 30 0 13 0.00 9.2 Low
49 York Ave Roadway Connection 0 1 30 0 13 0.00 9.0 Low
116 Christiansen Rd Roadway Connection 0 0 30 0 13 0.00 8.8 Low
182 Harriman Rd Improvements 0 5 30 0 0 0.00 8.7 Low
CHEYENNE MPO LONG -RANGE  
TRANSPORTATION PLAN
APPENDIX E. ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION PROJECT PRIORITIZATION
Project Priority Level
Proj. No.* Project Name
Number of
Active
Transportation
Facilities,
Normalized
Multimodal
Connectivity
Score
Number of
Arterials and
Collectors
connected by
Normalized
Roadway
Connection
Score
Addresses Gaps
in Accessible
Infrastructure
Gaps
Addressed
Score
Active
Transportation
Propensity
Active
Transportation
Propensity Score
Weighted Active
Transportation
Enhancements Score
Public Priority Public Priority
Score
Weighted Bonus
Score
Project
Prioritization
Score
Priority Level
94 Dell Range Blvd Improvements 4.00 1.00 2.00 0.33 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 83 1 0.125 12.50 84.0 High
132 Yellowstone Rd Pedestrian and Bike Enhancements 1.00 0.25 6.00 1.00 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 81 4 0.5 50.00 83.8 High
146 Christensen Rd Greenway 2.00 0.50 4.00 0.67 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 79 3 0.375 37.50 81.0 High
171 Walterscheid Blvd Greenway 3.00 0.75 2.00 0.33 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 77 2 0.25 25.00 78.3 High
148 Whitney Rd Greenway 2.00 0.50 3.00 0.50 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 75 2 0.25 25.00 76.3 High
159 Henderson Dr Greenway 2.00 0.50 3.00 0.50 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 75 2 0.25 25.00 76.3 High
141 South Powderhouse Rd Greenway 1.00 0.25 4.00 0.67 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 73 5 0.625 62.50 76.0 High
170 Cribbon Ave Greenway 2.00 0.50 3.00 0.50 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 75 1 0.125 12.50 75.6 High
181 Parsley Blvd Greenway 2.00 0.50 3.00 0.50 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 75 1 0.125 12.50 75.6 High
145 East Storey Blvd/Highland Rd Greenway 2.00 0.50 2.00 0.33 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 71 3 0.375 37.50 72.7 High
177 David R Romero South Cheyenne Community Park North/South Greenway 2.00 0.50 2.00 0.33 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 71 2 0.25 25.00 72.1 High
157 Antelope Ave/ I-25 Greenway 2.00 0.50 1.00 0.17 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 67 8 1 100.00 71.7 High
138 West Four Mile Rd Greenway 1.00 0.25 3.00 0.50 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 69 4 0.5 50.00 71.3 High
160 South Dry Creek Greenway 1.00 0.25 3.00 0.50 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 69 2 0.25 25.00 70.0 High
163 East Campstool Rd Greenway 1.00 0.25 3.00 0.50 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 69 2 0.25 25.00 70.0 High
169 Center Dr Greenway 1.00 0.25 3.00 0.50 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 69 1 0.125 12.50 69.4 High
165 Crow Creek Greenway 1.00 0.25 2.00 0.33 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 65 6 0.75 75.00 68.3 Mid
129 East Park Greenway 2.00 0.50 1.00 0.17 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 67 1 0.125 12.50 67.3 Mid
130 Van Buren Ave Pedestrian Improvements 1.00 0.25 2.00 0.33 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 65 1 0.125 12.50 65.2 Mid
164 HR Ranch Rd/ I-80 Greenway 1.00 0.25 2.00 0.33 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 65 1 0.125 12.50 65.2 Mid
175 Partoyan Dr Greenway 1.00 0.25 2.00 0.33 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 65 1 0.125 12.50 65.2 Mid
151 Grove Dr/T-Bird Dr Greenway 1.00 0.25 1.00 0.17 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 60 4 0.5 50.00 62.9 Mid
161 North Dry Creek Greenway 0.00 0.00 2.00 0.33 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 58 2 0.25 25.00 59.6 Mid
139 East Four Mile Rd Greenway 0.00 0.00 2.00 0.33 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 58 1 0.125 12.50 59.0 Mid
162 West Campstool Rd Greenway 0.00 0.00 2.00 0.33 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 58 1 0.125 12.50 59.0 Mid
131 Lincolnway Greenway 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.17 Yes 1.00 Yes 1.00 54 1 0.125 12.50 54.8 Low
15 Mountain Rd Greenway 1.00 0.25 0.00 0.00 Yes 1.00 No 0.00 31 1 0.125 12.50 31.9 Low
115 Pershing Blvd Improvements 3.00 0.75 3.00 0.50 No 0.00 No 0.00 31 1 0.125 12.50 31.9 Low
172 15th St Greenway 1.00 0.25 5.00 0.83 No 0.00 No 0.00 27 5 0.625 62.50 30.2 Low
156 South Airport Connection 2.00 0.50 2.00 0.33 No 0.00 No 0.00 21 5 0.625 62.50 24.0 Low
40 Missile Dr Improvements 2.00 0.50 2.00 0.33 No 0.00 No 0.00 21 3 0.375 37.50 22.7 Low
142 Prairie Ave Greenway 2.00 0.50 2.00 0.33 No 0.00 No 0.00 21 3 0.375 37.50 22.7 Low
180 Freedom Elementary School Greenway 1.00 0.25 3.00 0.50 No 0.00 No 0.00 19 6 0.75 75.00 22.5 Low
91 Lincolnway Improvements 1.00 0.25 2.00 0.33 No 0.00 No 0.00 15 4 0.5 50.00 17.1 Low
147 South Whitney Rd and Railroad Greenway 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 No 0.00 No 0.00 0 3 0.375 37.50 1.9 Low
Active Transportation Enhancements Public Priority
Active Transportation Project Prioritization