Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 1 of 17 
 
WYOMING RURAL PUBLIC TRANSIT PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR (FY) 2026 
SUBRECIPIENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN 
THE WYOMING DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, 
LOCAL GOVERNMENT COORDINATION OFFICE 
AND THE 
CITY OF CHEYENNE TRANSIT PROGRAM 
 
1. Parties.  The parties to this Subrecipient Agreement (Agreement) are the Wyoming 
Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office (WYDOT), whose 
address is: 5300 Bishop Boulevard, Cheyenne, Wyoming 82009, and the City of Cheyenne 
Transit Program (Subrecipient), whose address is: 322 West Lincolnway, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming 82001. 
 
2. Purpose.  This is an award of state financial assistance from WYDOT to Subrecipient. The 
purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the respective relationships and responsibilities of 
Subrecipient and WYDOT in the administration of the Wyoming Rural Public Transit 
Program. Subrecipient shall use state funds for Rural Public Transit Program for the 
purpose of operating to provide public transportation (Project) in Laramie County. All 
work covered by this Agreement shall comply with the standards of the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) (42 U.S.C. § 12101, et seq.). 
 
Pursuant to Wyo. Stats.§§ 24 -15-101 and 24-15-102, WYDOT is authorized to distribute 
these program funds in accordance with the WYDOT State Management Plan and the FTA 
Master Agreement, following Federal Transit Administration (FTA) guidelines. This 
Agreement is also subject to all the FTA Certifications and Assurances required by the 
FTA. 
 
WYDOT and Subrecipient desire to secure and utilize grant funds for the public 
transportation needs in small urban and rural areas in the State of Wyoming. 
 
3. Term of Agreement.  This Agreement is effective when all parties have executed it 
(Effective Date). The term of this Agreement is from October 1, 2025, through December 
31, 2026. Subrecipient' s timeframe to complete the work under this Agreement (Budget 
Period) is from October 1, 2025, through September 30, 2026. The Period of Performance 
is from October 1, 2025, through December 31, 2026. 
 
4. Payment. 
 
A. WYDOT agrees to reimburse Subrecipient for the Project described in Section 2 
above. The total reimbursement shall not exceed three hundred thousand dollars 
($300,000.00). Total Project costs exceeding the  Project estimate of three hundred 
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) (including local share) shall be borne by 
Subrecipient. 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 2 of 17 
 
Subrecipient's eligible costs incurred shall be reimbursed upon receipt of an 
approved WYDOT reimbursement request form, which is provided in WYDOT'  s 
project management system. WYDOT requires support documentation for any and 
all submittals. WYDOT will reimburse those eligible costs based on the program 
guidelines for the item categories and their appropriate reimbursement ratio.  Costs 
incurred outside of the Budget Period will not be eligible for reimbursement. 
Requests for reimbursement shall be  submitted monthly. Reimbursement requests 
submitted more than three (3) months after the expenses were incurred may not be 
processed for payment. The final invoice for reimbursement will be accepted by 
WYDOT no later than forty -five (45) days from the end of the Budget Period. 
WYDOT will make payment to Subrecipient within forty-five (45) days of receipt 
of a complete and approved reimbursement request pursuant to  Wyo. Stat. § 16-6- 
602. The basis for reimbursement shall be as follows: 
 
(i) Net Operating Deficit (Total Operating Expense - Farebox = Net Operating 
Deficit) is reimbursed with state funds at one hundred percent (100%), with 
Local Share at zero percent (0%) at the amounts shown below. 
 
Net Operating Deficit $300,000.00 
State Award (100%) $300,000.00 
Local Share (0%) $00.00 
Subrecipient shall initiate and prosecute to completion all actions necessary to 
enable Subrecipient to provide its share of the Project costs at or prior to the time 
that such funds are needed to meet Project costs. Subrecipient shall provide 
WYDOT monthly reporting ofridership and expenses, and semi -annual inventory 
updates. Subrecipient shall submit invoices in sufficient detail to ensure that 
reimbursements may be made in conformance with this Agreement. 
 
B. Fiscal Year End Accounting. Subrecipient shall provide end -of-fiscal-year 
financial reporting by October 30, 2026, identifying all expenses incurred that have 
not yet been submitted for reimbursement.  The final reimbursement request must 
be submitted to WYDOT by November 15, 2026. Failure to meet these deadlines 
may result in WYDOT rejecting reimbursement requests. 
C. Should Subrecipient fail to perform in a manner consistent with the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement, reimbursement under this Agreement may 
be withheld until such time as Subrecipient performs its duties and responsibilities 
to the satisfaction ofWYDOT. 
D. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Subrecipient shall pay all costs 
and expenses, including travel, incurred by Subrecipient or on its behalf in 
connection with Subrecipient's performance and compliance with all of 
Subrecipient's obligations under this Agreement. 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 3 of 17 
 
E. Award identification information is included in Attachment A, State Transit 
Funding Award Information Box, which is attached to and incorporated into this 
Agreement by this reference. 
 
5. Responsibilities of the Parties. 
 
A. Project Scope. Subrecipient shall undertake and complete the Project in 
accordance with this Agreement and as described in its application, which is 
incorporated into this Agreement by this reference. 
 
(i) Subrecipient shall utilize this grant for the operating costs associated with 
providing public transportation in their service area. 
(ii) Subrecipient shall abide by the terms as described in Section 4 above and in 
Attachment B, FY 2026 Wyoming Rural Public Transit Annual Program 
Update, which is attached to and incorporated into this Agreement by this 
reference. 
 
(iii) WYDOT agrees to reimburse Subrecipient in accordance with Section 4 
above. 
B. Purchase of Project Equipment. The purchase of all Project equipment financed 
in whole or in part pursuant to this Agreement shall be undertaken by WYDOT on 
behalf of Subrecipient or by Subrecipient with prior written WYDOT approval in 
accordance with the procedures established by WYDOT. Purchases of more than 
four thousand, nine hundred ninety -nine dollars ($4,999.00) using federal or state 
funds are subject to WYDOT approval in accordance with established procedures. 
 
(i) Title to Project Equipment. Title to Project equipment shall be in the name 
of Subrecipient subject to the restrictions on the use and disposition of the 
Project equipment set forth herein. The following notification shall be typed 
on the face of the title document of each vehicle by the County Clerk: 
"WYDOT Grant - Restricted." It is the responsibility of Subrecipient to 
ensure the County Clerk is notified of this requirement. 
(ii) Use of Project Equipment. Subrecipient agrees that the Project equipment, 
and/or facilities, shall be used for the purpose for which it was acquired, as 
long as it is needed in the Project. If the Project equipment is no longer 
needed, or cannot be used for the intended purpose, prior to selling or 
otherwise disposing of the Project equipment, Subrecipient shall 
immediately notify WYDOT. Before selling or  otherwise disposing of the 
Project equipment, Subrecipient must receive a written notification from 
WYDOT allowing the sale or disposal. Subrecipient shall not execute any 
lease, pledge, mortgage, lien,.  or other contract touching or affecting the 
state interest in any Project equipment, nor shall it obligate itself in any 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 4 of 17 
 
other manner, with any third party with respect to the Project equipment, 
unless such lease, pledge, mortgage, lien, contract, or other obligation is 
either in conformance with the standards of FTA guidelines or is otherwise 
expressly authorized in writing by  WYDOT, nor shall Subrecipient or any 
other organization that obtains facilities or equipment through this 
Agreement, by any act or omission of any kind, impair its continuing control 
over the use of Project equipment. Subrecipient shall maintain satisfactory 
records with regard to the use of the property and submit to WYDOT upon 
request such information, as is required in order to assure compliance with 
this section. Subrecipient shall immediately notify WYDOT in all cases 
where Project equipment is used in a manner substantially different from 
that described in the Project description. Subrecipient shall maintain an 
amount and form satisfactory to  WYDOT such insurance or self-insurance 
as will be adequate to protect Project equipment throughout the period of 
required use. During the Period of Performance, Subrecipient shall maintain 
the Project equipment at a high level of cleanliness, safety, and mechanical 
soundness. Subrecipient shall maintain equipment in accordance with its 
WYDOT-approved Maintenance Plan adopted by its Board or Governing 
Body and on file with WYDOT. WYDOT and the FTA shall have the right 
to monitor maintenance records in order to confirm that proper upkeep has 
been conducted pursuant to this section. 
 
C. Prohibited Interest. No member, officer, or employee ofSubrecipient during their 
tenure or one (1) year thereafter shall have any interest, direct or indirect, in this 
Agreement or the proceeds thereof. 
 
D. Certifications and Assurances. Subrecipient acknowledges that they have read  
and agree to comply with all requirements in the current FTA Master Agreement 
and the current FTA Certifications and Assurances. Subrecipient shall certify that 
they have read and agree to these requirements annually. 
 
E. Restrictions, Prohibitions, Controls, and Labor Provisions. 
 
(i) Equal Employment Opportunity.  In connection with carrying out the 
Project, Subrecipient shall not discriminate against any employee or 
applicant for employment because of race, color, age, creed, sex, national 
origin, or disability. Subrecipient shall take affirmative action to ensure that 
applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during 
employment, without regard to their race, color, age, creed, sex, national 
origin, or disability. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the 
following: employment; upgrading; demotion or transfer; recruitment or 
recruitment advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms 
of compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. 
(ii) Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Requirements. 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 5 of 17 
 
(a) Policy. It is the policy of WYDOT that DBEs, defined as Minority 
Business Enterprises and Women's Business Enterprises, shall have 
the maximum opportunity to participate in the performance of 
contracts financed in whole or in part with funds under this 
Agreement. Consequently, the DBE requirements of 49 CFR Part 
26 apply to this Agreement. 
(b) DBE Obligation. Subrecipient or its contractor agrees to ensure that 
DBEs as defined in 49 CFR Part 26 have the maximum opportunity 
to participate in the performance of contracts and subcontracts 
financed in whole or in part with funds provided under this 
Agreement. In this regard, all Subrecipients shall take all necessary 
and reasonable steps in accordance with 49 CFR Part 26 to ensure 
that DBEs have the maximum opportunity to compete for and 
perform contracts. Subrecipient and its contractor shall not 
discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, or sex in the 
award and performance ofWYDOT assisted contracts. 
 
(iii) Title VI Civil Rights Act of 1964 . Subrecipient shall comply and shall 
assure the compliance by contractors and subcontractors  under this Project 
with all the requirements imposed by Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 
1964 (49 U.S.C. 2000d), the Regulations of the United States Department 
of Transportation (DOT) issued thereunder, 49 CFR Part 21, and the 
Assurance by Subrecipient pursuant thereto. 
 
(iv) Compliance with Elderly and Disabled Regulations.  Subrecipient shall 
comply with applicable regulations regarding transportation for elderly and 
disabled persons, set forth in 49 CFR Part 27 and the ADA. 
(v) Domestic Preferences for Procurement. This provision requires a preference 
for the purchase, acquisition, or use of goods, products, or materials 
produced in the United States (including but not limited to iron, aluminum, 
steel, cement, and other manufactured products) in accordance with 2 CFR 
200.322. 
(vi) Prohibition of Certain  Telecommunications and Video  Surveillance 
Services or  Equipment. Federal law prohibits procuring, obtaining, 
extending, renewing, or entering into contracts for equipment or services 
from manufacturers listed in 2 CFR 200.216. 
 
(vii) Never Contract with the Enemy. Awarding agencies and Subrecipients are 
subject to the regulations implementing Never Contract with  the Enemy in 
2 CFR part 183. The regulations in 2 CFR part 183 affect covered contracts, 
grants, and cooperative agreements that are expected to exceed fifty 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 6 of 17 
 
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) within the period of performance, are 
performed outside the United States and its territories, and are in support of 
a contingency operation in which members of the Armed Forces are actively 
engaged in hostilities in accordance to 2 CFR 200.215. 
(viii) Labor Standards under 49 U.S.C. § 5333. Subrecipient agrees that 49 U.S.C. 
§ 5333 - Labor Standards applies to this Agreement. The Certifications and 
Warranties are available from the FTA and WYDOT upon request and are 
incorporated into this Agreement by this reference. Below is a brief 
summary of the requirements as well as program applicability. 
 
(a) Prevailing Wage Requirements. Construction work financed in 
whole or part by the FTA shall comply with the provisions of the 
Davis-Bacon Act. 
 
(b) Employee Protective Arrangements. As a condition of 49 U.S.C. §§ 
5307-5312, 5337, and/or 5339, employers are required to provide 
workers with basic protections as required by the Department of 
Labor. This includes the  Special Warranty; details can be  found on 
the Department of Labor's website at 
http://www.dol.gov/olms/regs/compliance/compltransit.htm or may 
be obtained by contacting the Department of Labor at 202 -693- 
0126. 
An employer who receives transit funds must protect all covered 
transit employees affected by the use of the money. The Department 
of Labor must approve the arrangements made to protect these 
employees. For covered employees, the arrangements include: 
(1) preserving their rights and benefits; 
(2) continuing their collective bargaining rights; 
(3) protecting them against a worsening of their employment 
conditions; 
(4) assuring jobs for employees of acquired mass transit 
systems; 
(5) providing priority of reemployment if the employee is laid 
off or their job is eliminated; and 
(6) providing paid training. 
 
F. Motor Vehicle Safety. 
 
(i) Motor Vehicle Safety Standards.  The motor vehicles will comply with the 
Motor Vehicle Safety Standards and Pollution Requirements as established 
by the United States Department of Transportation. 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 7 of 17 
 
(ii) Motor Vehicle Requirements.  When new motor vehicles are purchased, a 
written certification shall be obtained from each vendor stating: "The 
horsepower of the vehicle is adequate for the speed, range, and terrain in 
which it will be required to operate and also to meet the demands of all 
auxiliary power equipment." 
 
G. Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Disability- 504 Regulations. 
 
(i) Subrecipient shall ensure to WYDOT that persons with disabilities and 
groups representing them have had adequate notice of and opportunity to 
comment on the present and proposed plans for providing transportation to 
disabled persons unable to use general public service. 
 
(ii) Subrecipient must certify to WYDOT that special efforts are being made to 
provide transportation to eligible disabled persons. This service must be 
reasonable in cost, meet a significant fraction of such transportation needs, 
and be provided within a reasonable time. 
 
(iii) Subrecipient shall submit a  status report to WYDOT (updated every three 
[3] years). The report must include: 
 
(a) A description of the service to the disabled, as compared to the 
general public service; 
(b) Copies or a summary of the comments received in response to the 
opportunity to comment; 
(c) A statement of any plans to significantly modify the services; and 
(d) A statement of the resources devoted to the disabled service. 
 
H. Safety Jurisdiction. The FTA requires that all Subrecipients operate their service 
in a safe manner and not allow any conditions to develop that create a serious hazard 
of death or injury. 
 
(i) Required Safety Training Classes.  Safety Training Classes are  a mandated 
requirement of the Safety Jurisdiction clause. Transportation Safety 
Institute (TSI) or equal approved training, ADA compliance training, and 
other technical training programs are required on a regular basis (as 
specified by the State Management Plan). The Wyoming Public Transit 
Association (WYTRANS) shall maintain records and files of training 
information. Subrecipient shall maintain independent employee training 
records for its file as well. Subrecipient shall notify WYTRANS of any 
employee-needed training to keep current with the requirements of this 
section. If safety violations are found and a Subrecipient fails to correct 
them or comply with the training mandate, further financial assistance may 
be withheld. 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 8 of 17 
 
I. Emergency Management. Subrecipient is required by WYDOT to cooperate and 
coordinate with Emergency Management agencies in its area during natural or man­ 
made disasters. All FTA vehicles shall be used to transport people and/or equipment 
as directed by WYDOT. Subrecipient shall use its communication equipment to 
ensure timely evacuation of elderly and disabled people in its area. 
 
J. Records and Reports. 
 
(i) Establishment and Maintenance of Accounting Records. Subrecipient shall 
establish and maintain, in accordance with requirements established by 
WYDOT, separate accounts for the Project, either independently or within 
its existing accounting system, to be known as the Project Account. 
 
(ii) Documentation of Project Costs.  All charges to the Project Account shall 
be supported by properly executed invoices, contracts, or vouchers 
evidencing in proper detail the nature and propriety of the charges, in 
accordance with WYDOT rules and regulations. Copies and/or supporting 
documentation of such invoices, contracts, or vouchers must be included 
with monthly billing statements to cover all charges submitted for payment. 
The original documentation should be maintained by Subrecipient in the 
Project file and must be available to WYDOT upon request. 
 
(iii) Checks, Orders, and Vouchers. Any check or order drawn by Subrecipient 
with respect to any item which is or will be chargeable against the Project 
Account will be drawn only in accordance with a properly signed voucher 
then on file in the office of Subrecipient stating in proper detail the purpose 
for which such check or order is drawn. All checks, invoices, contracts, 
vouchers, orders, or other accounting documents pertaining in whole or in 
part to the Project shall be clearly identified, readily accessible, and,  to the 
extent feasible, kept separate and apart from all other such documents. 
(iv) Reports.  Subrecipient shall advise WYDOT regarding the progress of the 
Project at such times and in such manner as WYDOT may require, 
including, but not limited to, meetings and interim reports. Subrecipient 
shall submit, accompanying the monthly reimbursement report, ridership 
data reports on approved WYDOT forms. WYDOT will not process 
requests for reimbursement without completed ridership data for the period 
of the reimbursement request. Subrecipient shall submit to  WYDOT, or its 
authorized representatives, an inventory of all vehicles, facilities, and 
equipment purchased by Subrecipient as part of the Project; all 
transportation services rendered by Subrecipient by the use of such vehicles, 
facilities, and equipment; and all relevant Project data and records. 
Subrecipient shall also permit the above -named persons to examine 
Subrecipient's books, records, and accounts pertaining to the Project. If 
Subrecipient has an audit performed for its own purposes, Subrecipient 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 9 of 17 
 
agrees to provide WYDOT with a copy of such audit report. Subrecipient 
shall keep records and audit reports on file for three (3) years after the close 
of its fiscal year. 
K. Required Clauses. Subrecipient shall include in all subcontracts entered into 
pursuant to this Agreement all of the above-required clauses and additional federal 
clauses required by the FTA Master Agreement. In addition, the following required 
provision shall be included in any advertisement of invitation to bid for any 
procurement under this Agreement: "Statement of Financial Assistance. This 
Agreement is subject to a financial assistance contract between the Wyoming 
Department of Transportation and the Federal Transit Administration." 
 
6. Special Provisions. 
A. Assumption of Risk. Subrecipient shall assume the risk of any loss of state or 
federal funding, either administrative or program dollars, due to Subrecipient's 
failure to comply with state or federal requirements. WYDOT shall notify 
Subrecipient of any state or federal determination of noncompliance. 
 
B. Conflict of Interest. Per 2 CFR 200.112, Subrecipient must disclose in writing any 
potential conflict of interest to WYDOT including financial or other personal 
interests. 
C. Environmental Policy Acts. Subrecipient agrees all activities under this 
Agreement will comply with the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the National 
Environmental Policy Act, and other related provisions of federal environmental 
protection laws, rules or regulations. 
 
D. Human Trafficking. As required by 22 U.S.C. § 7104(g) and 2 CFR Part 175, this 
Agreement may be terminated without penalty if a private entity that receives funds 
under this Agreement: 
(i) Engages in severe forms of trafficking in persons during the period of time 
that the award is in effect; 
(ii) Procures a commercial sex act during the period of time that the award is 
in effect; or 
(iii) Uses forced labor in the performance of the award or subawards under the 
award. 
E. Kickbacks. Subrecipient certifies and warrants that no gratuities, kickbacks, or 
contingency fees were paid in  connection with this Agreement, nor were any fees, 
commissions, gifts, or other considerations made contingent upon the award of this 
Agreement. If Subrecipient breaches or violates this warranty, WYDOT may, at its 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 10 of 17 
 
discretion, terminate this Agreement without liability to  WYDOT, or deduct from 
the agreed upon price or consideration, or otherwise recover, the full amount of any 
commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingency fee. 
 
F. Limitations on Lobbying Activities. By signing this Agreement, Subrecipient 
certifies and agrees that, in  accordance with P.L. 101 -121, payments made from a 
federal grant shall not be utilized by Subrecipient or its subcontractors in 
connection with lobbying member(s) of Congress, or any federal agency in 
connection with the award of a federal grant, contract, cooperative agreement, or 
loan. 
 
G. Monitoring Activities. WYDOT shall have the right to monitor all activities 
related to this Agreement that are performed by Subrecipient or its subcontractors. 
This shall include, but not be limited to, the right to make site inspections at any 
time and with reasonable notice; to bring experts and consultants on site to examine 
or evaluate completed work or work in progress; to examine the books, ledgers, 
documents, papers, and records pertinent to this Agreement; and to observe 
personnel in every phase of performance of Agreement related work. 
 
H. Nondiscrimination. Subrecipient shall comply with the  Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
the Wyoming Fair Employment Practices Act (Wyo. Stat.§  27-9-105, et seq.), the 
ADA, 42 U.S.C. § 12101, et seq., and the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 and any 
properly promulgated rules and regulations thereto and shall not discriminate 
against any individual on the grounds of age, sex, color, race, religion, national 
origin, or disability in connection with the performance under this Agreement. 
 
I. No Finder's Fees. No finder's fee, employment agency fee, or other such fee 
related to the procurement of this Agreement, shall be paid by either party. 
J. Publicity. Any publicity given to the projects, programs, or services provided 
herein, including, but not limited to, notices, information, pamphlets, press releases, 
research, reports, signs, and similar public notices in whatever form, prepared by 
or for Subrecipient and related to the services and work to be performed under this 
Agreement, shall identify WYDOT as the sponsoring agency and shall not be 
released without prior written approval of WYDOT. 
K. Suspension and Debarment. By signing this Agreement, Subrecipient certifies 
that neither it nor its principals/agents are presently debarred, suspended, proposed 
for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this 
transaction or from receiving federal financial or nonfinancial assistance, nor are 
any of the participants involved in the execution of this Agreement suspended, 
debarred, or voluntarily excluded by any federal department or agency in 
accordance with Executive Order 12549 (Debarment and Suspension), or 2 CFR 
Part 180, or are on the debarred, or otherwise ineligible, vendors lists maintained 
by the federal government. Further, Subrecipient agrees to notify WYDOT by 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 11 of 17 
 
certified mail should it or any of its principals/agents become ineligible for 
payment, debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded from receiving federal 
funds during the term of this Agreement. 
L. Administration of Federal Funds. Subrecipient agrees its use of the funds  
awarded herein is subject to the Uniform Administrative Requirements of 2 CFR 
Part 200, et seq.; any additional requirements set forth by the federal funding 
agency; all applicable regulations published in the Code of Federal Regulations; 
and other program guidance as provided to it by WYDOT. 
M. Copyright License and Patent Rights. Subrecipient acknowledges that federal 
grantor, the State of Wyoming, and WYDOT reserve a  royalty-free, nonexclusive, 
unlimited, and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use, and to 
authorize others to use, for federal and state government purposes: (1) the copyright 
in any work developed under this Agreement; and (2) any rights of copyright to 
which Subrecipient purchases ownership using funds awarded under this 
Agreement. Subrecipient must consult with WYDOT regarding any patent rights 
that arise from, or are purchased with, funds awarded under this Agreement. 
 
N. Federal Audit Requirements. Subrecipient agrees that if it expends an aggregate 
amount in excess of the amount set forth in 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F in federal 
awards during its fiscal year, it must undergo an organization -wide financial and 
compliance single audit. Subrecipient agrees to comply with the audit requirements 
of the U.S. General Accounting Office Government Auditing Standards and Audit 
Requirements of2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F. If findings are made which cover any 
part of this Agreement, Subrecipient shall provide one  (1) copy of the audit report 
to WYDOT and require the release of the audit report by its auditor be held until 
adjusting entries are disclosed and made to WYDOT's records. 
 
0.  Non-Supplanting Certification.  Subrecipient hereby affirms that federal grant 
funds shall be used to supplement existing funds, and shall not replace (supplant) 
funds that have been appropriated for the same purpose. Subrecipient should be 
able to document that any  reduction in non-federal resources occurred for reasons 
other than the receipt or expected receipt of federal funds under this Agreement. 
P. Program Income. Subrecipient shall not deposit grant funds in  an interest bearing 
account without prior approval of WYDOT. Any income attributable to the grant 
funds distributed under this Agreement must be used to increase the scope of the 
program or returned to WYDOT. 
Q. Applicability of Appendix  II to 2 CFR Part 200. This Agreement has been 
funded, in whole or in part, with an Award of Federal funds and is bound by the 
federal contract provisions required by the Uniform Guidance Appendix II of 2 
CFR Part 200 (the Federal Contract Provisions), incorporated herein by this 
reference. In the event of a conflict between the Special Provisions section of this 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 12 of 17 
 
Agreement, or any attachments or exhibits incorporated herein, and the Federal 
Contract Provisions, 'the Federal Contract Provisions shall control. Failure to 
comply with the Federal Contract Provisions shall constitute an event of default 
under this Agreement. If such a default remains uncured five (5) calendar days 
following the termination of a thirty (30) day prior written notice  period, WYDOT 
may terminate this Agreement. This remedy will be in addition to any other remedy 
available to the State of Wyoming and WYDOT under this Agreement, at law, or 
in equity. 
 
7. General Provisions. 
 
A. Amendments. Any changes, modifications, rev1s10ns, or amendments to this 
Agreement which are  mutually agreed upon  by the parties to this Agreement shall 
be incorporated by written instrument, executed by all parties to this Agreement.  
 
B. Applicable Law, Rules of Construction, and Venue. The construction, 
interpretation, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of 
the State of Wyoming, without regard to conflicts of law principles. The terms 
"hereof," "hereunder," "herein," and words of  similar import, are  intended to refer 
to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision or part. The Courts 
of the State of Wyoming shall have jurisdiction over this Agreement and the parties. 
The venue shall be the First Judicial District, Laramie County, Wyoming.  
 
C. Assignment Prohibited and Agreement Shall Not be used as Collateral. Neither 
party shall assign or otherwise transfer any of the rights or delegate any of the duties 
set out in this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party. 
Subrecipient shall  not use this Agreement, or any portion thereof, for collateral for 
any financial obligation without the prior written permission ofWYDOT.  
 
D. Audit and Access to Records. WYDOT and its  representatives shall have access 
to any books, documents, papers, electronic data, and records of Subrecipient which 
are pertinent to this Agreement. Subrecipient shall immediately, upon  receiving 
written instruction from WYDOT, provide to  any independent auditor accountant 
all books, documents, papers, electronic data, and records of Subrecipient which 
are pertinent to this Agreement. Subrecipient shall cooperate fully with any such 
independent auditor or  accountant during  the entire course of any audit authorized 
byWYDOT. 
 
E. Availability of Funds. Each payment obligation of WYDOT is  conditioned upon 
the availability of government funds which are appropriated or allocated for the 
payment of this obligation and  which may be limited for any reason including, but 
not limited to, congressional, legislative, gubernatorial,  or administrative action. If 
funds are not allocated and available for continued performance of  the Agreement, 
the Agreement may be  terminated by WYDOT at the end of the period for which 
the funds are available. WYDOT shall notify Subrecipient at the earliest possible  
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 13 of 17 
 
time of the services which will or may be affected by a shortage of funds. No 
penalty shall accrue to WYDOT in the event this provision is exercised, and 
WYDOT shall not be obligated or liable for any future payments due or for any 
damages as a result of termination under this section. 
 
F. Award of Related Agreements. WYDOT may award supplemental or successor 
contracts for work related to this Agreement or may award contracts to other 
subrecipients for work related to this Agreement. Subrecipient shall cooperate fully 
with other subrecipients and WYDOT in all such cases. 
 
G. Compliance with Laws. Subrecipient shall keep informed of and comply with all 
applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and all federal grant 
requirements and executive orders in the performance of this Agreement. 
 
H. Confidentiality of Information. Except when disclosure is required by the 
Wyoming Public Records Act or court order, all documents, data compilations, 
reports, computer programs, photographs, data, and other work provided to or 
produced by Subrecipient in the performance of this Agreement shall be kept 
confidential by Subrecipient unless written permission is  granted by WYDOT for 
its release. If and when Subrecipient receives a request for information subject to 
this Agreement, Subrecipient shall notify WYDOT within ten (10) days of such 
request and shall not release such information to a third party unless directed to do 
so byWYDOT. 
 
I. Entirety of Agreement. This Agreement, consisting of seventeen (17) pages; 
Attachment A, State Transit Funding Award Information Box, consisting of one (1) 
page; Attachment B, FY 2026 Wyoming Rural Public Transit Annual Program 
Update, consisting of seven (7) pages; Subrecipient's application the Certifications 
and Warranties; and the Federal Contract Provisions, represent the entire and 
integrated Agreement between the parties and shall supersede all prior negotiations, 
representations, and agreements, whether written or  oral. In the event of a conflict 
or inconsistency between the language of this Agreement and the  language of any 
attachment or document incorporated by reference, the language of this Agreement 
shall control. 
J. Ethics. Subrecipient shall keep informed of and comply with the Wyoming Ethics 
and Disclosure Act (Wyo. Stat. § 9-13-101, et seq.) and any and all ethical standards 
governing Subrecipient's profession. 
K. Extensions. Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted or deemed to create an 
expectation that this Agreement will be extended beyond the term described herein. 
Any extension of this Agreement shall be initiated by WYDOT and shall be 
accomplished through a written amendment between the parties entered into before 
the expiration of the original Agreement or any valid amendment thereto, and shall 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 14 of 17 
 
be effective only after it is reduced to writing and executed by all parties to the 
Agreement. 
 
L. Force Majeure. Neither party shall be liable for failure to perform under this 
Agreement if such failure to perform arises out of causes beyond the control and 
without the fault or negligence of the nonperforming party. Such causes may 
include, but are not limited to, acts of God or the public enemy, fires, floods, 
epidemics, quarantine restrictions, freight embargoes, and unusually severe 
weather. This provision shall become effective only  if the party failing to perform 
immediately notifies the other party of the extent and nature of the problem, limits 
delay in performance to that required by the event, and takes all reasonable steps to 
minimize delays. 
 
M. Indemnification. Each party to this Agreement shall assume the risk of any liability 
arising from its own conduct. Neither party agrees to  insure, defend, or indemnify 
the other. 
 
N. Independent Contractor. Subrecipient shall function as an independent contractor 
for the purposes of this Agreement and shall not be considered an employee of the 
State of Wyoming for any purpose. Consistent with the express terms of this 
Agreement, Subrecipient shall be free from control or  direction over the details of 
the performance of services under this Agreement. Subrecipient shall assume sole 
responsibility for any debts or liabilities that may be incurred by Subrecipient in 
fulfilling the terms of this Agreement and shall be solely responsible for the 
payment of all federal, state, and local taxes which may accrue because of this 
Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted as authorizing 
Subrecipient or its agents or employees to act as an agent or representative for or 
on behalf of the State of Wyoming or WYDOT or to incur any obligation of any 
kind on behalf of the State of Wyoming or WYDOT. Subrecipient agrees that no 
health or hospitalization benefits, workers' compensation, unemployment 
insurance, or similar benefits available to State of Wyoming employees will inure 
to the benefit of Subrecipient or Subrecipient's  agents or employees as a result of 
this Agreement. 
 
0.   Notices. All notices arising out of,  or from, the  provisions of this Agreement shall 
be in writing either by regular mail or delivery in person at the addresses provided 
under this Agreement. 
 
P. Ownership and Return of Documents and Information. WYDOT is the official 
custodian and owns all documents, data compilations, reports, computer programs, 
photographs, data, and other work provided to or produced by Subrecipient in the 
performance of this Agreement. Upon termination of services, for any reason, 
Subrecipient agrees to return all such original and derivative information and 
documents to WYDOT in a useable format. In the case of electronic transmission, 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 15 of 17 
 
such transmission shall be secured. The return of information by any other means 
shall be by a parcel service that utilizes tracking numbers. 
 
Q. Patent or Copyright Protection. Subrecipient recognizes that certain proprietary 
matters or techniques may be subject to patent, trademark, copyright, license, or 
other similar restrictions, and warrants that no  work performed by Subrecipient or 
its contractors will violate any such restriction. Subrecipient shall defend and 
indemnify WYDOT for any infringement or alleged infringement of such patent, 
trademark, copyright, license, or other restrictions. 
 
R. Prior Approval. This Agreement shall not be binding upon either party and the 
Wyoming State Auditor shall not draw warrants for payment, until this Agreement 
has been fully executed, approved as to form by the Office of the Attorney General, 
filed with and approved by A&I Procurement, and approved by the Governor of the 
State of Wyoming, or his designee, ifrequired by Wyo. Stat. § 9-2-3204(b)(iv). 
 
S. Insurance Requirements. Subrecipient is protected by the Wyoming 
Governmental Claims Act, Wyo. Stat. § 1 -39-101, et seq., and certifies that it is a 
member of the Wyoming Association of Risk Management (WARM) pool or the 
Local Government Liability Pool (LGLP), Wyo. Stat. § 1-42-201, et seq., and shall 
provide a letter verifying its participation in the WARM or LGLP to WYDOT. 
 
T. Severability. Should any portion of this Agreement be judicially determined to be 
illegal or unenforceable, the remainder of the Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect, and the parties may renegotiate the terms affected by the severance. 
 
U. Sovereign Immunity and Limitations. Pursuant to Wyo. Stat.§  1-39-104(a), the 
State of Wyoming and WYDOT expressly reserve sovereign immunity by entering 
into this Agreement and Subrecipient expressly reserves governmental immunity. 
Each of them specifically retains all immunities and defenses available to them as 
sovereigns or governmental entities pursuant to Wyo.  Stat.§ 1-39-101, et seq., and 
all other applicable law. The parties acknowledge that the State of Wyoming has 
sovereign immunity and only the Wyoming Legislature has the power to waive 
sovereign immunity. Designations of venue, choice of law, enforcement actions, 
and similar provisions shall not be construed as a waiver of sovereign immunity. 
The parties agree that any ambiguity in this Agreement shall not be strictly 
construed, either against or for either party, except that any ambiguity as to 
immunity shall be construed in favor of immunity. 
 
V. Taxes. Subrecipient shall pay all taxes and other such amounts required by federal, 
state, and local law, including, but not limited to, federal and social security taxes, 
workers' compensation, unemployment insurance, and sales taxes. 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 16 of 17 
 
W. Termination of Agreement. This Agreement may be terminated, without cause, 
by WYDOT upon thirty (30) days written notice. This Agreement may be 
terminated by WYDOT immediately for cause if Subrecipient fails to perform in 
accordance with the terms of this Agreement. 
 
If at any time during the performance of this Agreement, in the opinion ofWYDOT, 
the work is not progressing satisfactorily or within the terms of this Agreement, 
then, at the discretion of WYDOT and after written notice to Subrecipient, 
WYDOT may terminate this Agreement or any part of it. As of the termination 
date, Subrecipient will be entitled to a pro rata payment for all work accomplished 
and accepted by WYDOT; however, Subrecipient shall be liable to WYDOT for 
the entire cost of replacement services for the duration of the Agreement term. 
 
X. Third-Party Beneficiary Rights. The parties do not intend to create in any other 
individual or entity the  status of third -party beneficiary, and this Agreement shall 
not be construed so as to create such status. The rights, duties, and obligations 
contained in this Agreement shall operate only between the parties to this 
Agreement and shall inure solely to the benefit of the parties to this Agreement. 
The provisions of this Agreement are intended only to assist the parties in 
determining and performing their obligations under this Agreement. 
 
Y. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence in all provisions of this Agreement. 
 
Z. Titles Not Controlling. Titles of sections and subsections are for reference only 
and shall not be used to construe the language in this Agreement. 
AA. Waiver. The waiver of any breach of any term or condition in this Agreement shall 
not be deemed a waiver of any prior or subsequent breach. Failure to object to a 
breach shall not constitute a waiver. 
 
BB. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts. Each counterpart, 
when executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original and all counterparts 
together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. Delivery by Subrecipient of 
an originally signed counterpart of this Agreement by facsimile or PDF shall be 
followed up immediately by delivery of the originally signed counterpart to 
WYDOT. 
 
 
THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK. 
Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of  Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office  and 
the City of Cheyenne Transit Program  
Page 17 of 17 
 
8. Signatures. The parties to this Agreement, either personally or through their duly 
authorized representatives, have executed this Agreement on the dates set out below and 
certify that they have read, understood, and agreed to the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement. 
The Effective Date of this Agreement is the date of the signature last affixed to this page. 
 
WYDOT: 
Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office 
 
 
 
  
Brian Olsen, P.E., Assistant Chief Engineer, 
Engineering and Planning 
Date 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
  
Caitlin Casner, Secretary 
Transportation Commission of Wyoming 
 
 
 
SUBRECIPIENT: 
City of Cheyenne Transit Program 
Date 
 
 
 
  
Signature Date 
 
 
Print Name & Title 
 
 
ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE: APPROVAL AS TO FORM 
 
ler M. Renner, Sup rvising Attorney General Date 
Attachment A to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT-26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and the City of 
Cheyenne Transit Program 
Page 1 of 1 
 
ATTACHMENT A 
 
STATE TRANSIT FUNDING AWARD INFORMATION BOX 
 
 
State Transit Funding Award Information 
 
Subrecipient Name: City of Cheyenne  Subrecipient Unique Entity Identifier (UEI): 
KURKMKZUFMY2 
   
Period of Performance Start and End 
Date: 
October 1, 2025, through December 31, 
2026 
 Budget Period Start and End Date: 
October 1, 2025, through September 30, 2026 
   
State Award this Agreement: 
$300,000.00 
 Total Project Award Including Local Share: $300,000.00 
   
Award Name: Wyoming Rural Public 
Transit 
 Awarding Agency: Wyoming Department of Transportation 
(WYDOT) 
   
Subrecipient Contact: Erin Johnson 
Phone: 307-637-6384 
Email: ejohnson@cheyennecity.org 
 WYDOT Program Mgr.: Lenaya Alverson 
Telephone: 307-777-4730 
Email: lenaya.alverson1@wyo.gov 
   
Subrecipient County: Laramie  WYDOT Contact for Confirmation of Funds: 
Telephone: 307-777-4434 
Email: dotrevenue@wyo.gov 
   
Agreement No.: RPT-26-141  Project No.: FT26141 
   
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and the City of Cheyenne Transit 
Program 
Page 1 of 7 
 
City of Cheyenne 
Agency Name 
ATTACHMENT B 
 
FY 2026 Wyoming Rural Public Transit 
Annual Program Update 
For guidance on any of the terms listed below, please refer to the Transit Definitions 
document located in BlackCat as part of the application documents. 
All recipients certify that neither it, nor its principals are presently debarred, suspended, 
proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from receiving Federal 
Funds, nor from federal financial or nonfinancial assistance, nor are any of the recipients 
suspended, debarred, or voluntarily excluded by any federal department or agency in 
accordance with Executive Order 12549 (Debarment and Suspension) and CFR 44 Part 17, or 
are on the disbarred vendors list at www.sam.gov. Please ensure your agency is registered 
on the www.sam.gov website. ***A copy of the agency’s active registration in sam.gov must 
be uploaded as part of this application.  See instructions under individual upload section in 
BlackCat. 
 
 
Local Match for 5311 Project: 
In the table below, you MUST identify the proposed source and dollar amount of your local 
match for this project. You must be able to show you have enough local match for your budget 
request in your BlackCat Application. 
 
 Source of Local Match Dollar Amount 
1. Match not required, funds are used for match of 5307 
grant 
$ 
2.  $ 
3.  $ 
4.  $ 
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and the City of Cheyenne Transit 
Program 
Page 2 of 7 
 
ATTACHMENT B 
 
 
5.  $ 
6.  $ 
 Total Local Match $ 
Equal Employment Opportunity: 
How many Transit-Related Employees are at your agency? 30 
Of those Transit-Related Employees, how many are “Safety-Sensitive?” 28 
The table below includes examples of how to count transit-related employees: 
● A city planner involved in planning bus routes would be counted as part of the transit- 
related workforce, but a city planner involved only in land use would not be counted. 
● A budget position who processes payments or does any financial processes for the 
transit program in addition to other responsibilities for the agency. 
● An employee focusing on grants management who handles grant applications for 
several town programs, including transit programs. 
● An HR officer managing staffing at the transit agency or managing transit staff as part of 
a city or county program. 
● An employee providing civil rights oversight at a transit agency. 
● A security guard or facilities staffer at a transit-specific building would be a transit- 
related employee. 
 
 
You need to count anyone who has their hand in anything that deals with your transit 
program. Please be prepared to explain how you arrived at the number you have entered 
on this form. 
 
ADA Section: 
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and the City of Cheyenne Transit 
Program 
Page 3 of 7 
 
ATTACHMENT B 
 
 
Does your agency have an ADA Complaint process? Yes 
How do you advertise the complaint process? Posted on the City of Cheyenne 
website 
Please explain your ADA Complaint process: 
To resolve complaints promptly and confidentially all complaints, regardless of how they are 
received, i.e., telephone, mail, in person, or email, are directed to the Transit Manager for 
investigation. CTP has a Suggestions/Compliments/Complaints Form. 
 
When Cheyenne Transit receives an ADA complaint, the Transit Manager will initiate a 
thorough and timely investigation. A written report of the investigation may be prepared 
which shall summarize investigatory actions and a summary of the results of the investigation. 
From the investigation results, a determination will be made as to what action is warranted 
and provide follow-up. 
Fixed Route Service (If Applicable): 
Describe the Fixed Route Service you operate 
(description of service area and stops). 
Operate 4 fixed routes that serve the Cheyenne area. 
Route map and brochure included. 
How will you meet the ADA-Specified Complementary 
Paratransit requirements as outlined in 49 CFR 37 for 
service within ¾ mile of your route? Please make 
sure a copy of your Complementary Para-Transit 
Plan is uploaded in the Resources tab in BlackCat. 
Provide paratransit services within a service boundary that 
meets the ¾ miles radius. Paratransit brochure included. 
 
Demand Response Service: 
Describe the Demand Response Service you operate 
(description of service area). 
N/A 
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and the City of Cheyenne Transit 
Program 
Page 4 of 7 
 
ATTACHMENT B 
 
 
How will you ensure the service is available to the 
general public? 
N/A 
What percentage of riders do you anticipate will be 
general public? 
N/A 
Do you deliver meals as part of your transportation 
program? Home Delivery Meals should not interfere 
with the operation of your transit service. 
No 
How do you prioritize rides? Ex: Will the general 
public be bumped from a ride if the bus is full of 
senior citizens? 
N/A 
 
Deviated Fixed Route Service: 
Describe what makes your service a Deviated Route. N/A 
 
Training: 
Do all your drivers have the required training? Yes 
If you answered NO to the above question, please 
provide an explanation. 
 
Are all your trainings current and documentation 
uploaded into BlackCat under Important Documents? 
Yes 
Describe your proposed training schedule for the 
upcoming fiscal year. 
CPR and First Aid training classes are scheduled every two 
months throughout the year. TSI Driver training classes 
are scheduled at least three times a year. All required 
training is completed annually. 
 
Program Future: 
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and the City of Cheyenne Transit 
Program 
Page 5 of 7 
 
ATTACHMENT B 
 
 
Describe any community or economic changes taking 
place that you anticipate will affect your transit 
service in the next five years. 
The city is growing, and new areas are being annexed that 
will eventually require transit service. A new senior center 
and transit facility will require a change in one or all of the 
fixed routes 
Is your agency considering increasing or decreasing 
service in the upcoming fiscal year? 
Not at this time. 
 
 
 
Vehicle and Facility Insurance: 
 
What is the total anticipated cost of vehicle 
insurance? 
$24,160.00 
What is the anticipated cost of your transit facility 
insurance (if applicable)? 
$28,799.66 
Is your agency location in a FEMA floodplain? If so, 
your proof of flood insurance should be uploaded to 
BlackCat under Important Documents? 
NO 
 
 
Vehicle Type Number of Vehicles in Fleet Cost of Insurance per Vehicle 
Bus 1 $1,272 
Cut-away 12 $1,272 
Minivan 6 $1,272 
Support Vehicle N/A N/A 
Total Vehicle Insurance Cost  $24,160.00 
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and the City of Cheyenne Transit 
Program 
Page 6 of 7 
 
ATTACHMENT B 
 
 
The section below is ONLY for WIL and WSIL that provide the 
Statewide Voucher Program 
Transportation Voucher Program 
The Transportation Voucher Program is a system designed to assist people with disabilities in 
meeting their transportation needs.  Funding must support projects that are aimed at 
providing additional tools to overcome existing barriers facing persons with disabilities 
seeking integration into the workforce and full participation in society. 
 
Who is eligible to use the Transportation Voucher 
program in your service area? 
 
What is the need for transit service in your area? 
Why does this need exist? How have you 
determined this need? 
 
How will this proposed project address the need for 
this service? 
 
How did you determine your budget for this project? 
Please attach a detailed budget of all costs you will 
submit for reimbursement. 
 
What efforts have you made to secure other funding 
sources for this project? 
 
 
 
The Wyoming Department of Transportation (WYDOT) is committed to ensuring that no person is excluded from participation in, o r 
denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination in the receipt of its services based on race, color, or national origin, or any other 
characteristics protected by law, including Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended. Further, under the Americans with 
Attachment B to the Wyoming Rural Public Transit Program FY 2026 Subrecipient Agreement No. RPT -26-141 
between the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Local Government Coordination Office and the City of Cheyenne Transit 
Program 
Page 7 of 7 
 
ATTACHMENT B 
 
 
Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), no entity shall discriminate against any individual with a physical or mental disability in connection with 
the provision of transportation services. 