APPROVEDastoformonly:
260616-7
ByJohnBrodieat12:25pm,May29,202
CONTRACT NO.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF CHEYENNE
AND LARAMIE COUNTY
FOR ANIMALCONTROL SERVICES
1.
Parties. The parties to this Agreement are the City of Cheyenne, a municipality
duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Wyoming, hereafter "City, whose
address is 2101 O'Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming 8200l, and Laramie County, a county
government organized and existing under the laws of the State of Wyoming, hereafter "County,"
whose address is 310 West 19th Street, Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001. The City and County may be
referred to herein individually as a "Party" and collectively as the "Parties."
2.
Purpose of Agreement. The purpose of this Agreement is to authorize the City to
3. 
Term: This Agreement is effective upon approval and execution by the parties. The
term of this Agreement shall be from July I, 2026, through June 30, 2027. The parties may, by
mutual agreement, renew this Agreement for additional one (1) year terms, through an amendment
reflecting then-current payment and any other relevant changes.
4.
Payment: The County agrees to pay the following amount for Animal Control
services described herein:
a.
The County shall pay upon receipt of the City's invoice for Animal Control
expenses only, the annual amount of one hundred fifty-six thousand eight hundred fifty
dollars ($156,850.00) for the twelve (12) month period commencing July 1, 2026, and
ending June 30, 2027.
b.
In no event shall the amount paid under this Agreement exceed one hundred
thirty thousand and eight hundred dollars ($156,850.00).
The County shall furnish use of the Laramie County Combined
Communications Center (LCCCC) as a component of this agreement. Consideration for this
service is reflected in the agreed upon pricing detailed above. Such use shall be limited to
calls regarding animal contro! responsibilities detailed in Section 5 of this Agreement
received by LCCCC and calls received by LCCCC where Animal Control is needed to
support a law enforcement or another public safety agency. The City shall provide Animal
Control with their own radios; the County will not provide any radio equipment to the City
as part of this agreement.
5.
City's Responsibilities.
a.
The City shall operate Animal Control for both the City of Cheyenne and the
unincorporated areas of Laramie County. All Animal Control operations in unincorporated
areas of Laramie County shall be conducted in conformance with any applicable Wyoming
state law as it may change from time to time and the Laramie County Rabies Control
Page 1 of 4
District, Animal Control District and Animal Control Regulations, adopted July 20, 2004
("Laramie County Regulations ").
b.
Such operations shall include, but not be limited to the following:
Capture of Animals: Animal Control will provide humane and safe
animal capture services for stray dogs and cats found within the limits of Laramie
County and shall transport them to the Cheyenne Animal Shelter.
Public Nuisance Complaint Calls: Animal Control will respond to
public nuisance complaint calls as provided by the Laramie County Regulations.
Animals Running At Large: Animal Control will respond to
Animals Running at Large as provided by the Laramie County Regulations.
iv.
Vicious or Dangerous Dogs: Animal Control will respond to
complaints relating to vicious or dangerous dogs as provided for by applicable law
or regulation.
C.
It shall be the City's responsibility to hire, train and manage all Animal
Control personnel and officers who shall operate within the City of Cheyenne and the
unincorporated areas of Laramie County.
d.
The City shall furnish to the County, through the Director of Compliance,
monthly reports reflecting such Animal Control statistics as are collected under industry
best practices. The report shall also include a description of any complaints made regarding
Animal Control services and the resolution of those complaints and any public education
programs conducted within that month.
The City shall perform operation of Animal Control in line with industry best
practices and shall maintain the professional and organizational integrity expected of an
organization engaged in providing animal control services.
6.
County's Responsibilities.
The County shall make payment as specified in this Agreement.
b.
 The County shall promptly report any concems or complaints received about
Animal Control services directly to the City, Attention: Director of Compliance.
7.
Responsibilities of Both Parties. Each Party shall establish and maintain records
documenting callis and investigations conducted by Animal Control officers including, but
not limited to, records of complaints received and the resolution of each complaint.
Page 2 of 4
General Provisions.
a.
Amendments.. Any changes, modifications, revisions, or amendment to this
Agreement, which are mutually agreed upon by the Parties to this Agreement shall be
incorporated by written instrument, executed, and signed by all Parties to this Agreement.
b.
Applicable Law. The construction, interpretation, and enforcement of this
Agreement shall be govermed by the laws of the State of Wyoming. The courts of the State
of Wyoming shall have jurisdiction over this Agreement and the Parties, and the venue shall
be in the First Judicial District, Laramie County, Wyoming.
Compliaace with the Laws.. The City and County shall keep informed of
and comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and industry
standards in the performance of this Agreement.
d.
Entirety of Agreement, This Agreement, consisting of four (4) pages,
represents the entire and integrated agreement between the Parties and supersedes all prior
negotiations, representations, and agreements, whether written or oral.
..
Indemnification. Each Party to this Agreement shall assume the risk of any
liability arising from its own conduct. Neither Party agrees to insure or indemnify the other.
f.
Notice. All notices arising out of or from the provisions of this Agreement
shall be in writing and given to the Parties either by regular mail or delivery in person.
g.
Nondiscrimination. The City and County shall comply with the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, the Wyoming Fair Employment Practices Act, Wyo. Stat. $ 27-9-105,
et seq., and the Americans with Disabilities Act (AD), as amended, 42 U.S.C. $ 12101, et
seg. The City and County shall assure that no person is subjected to discrimination because
of age, sex, race, religion, national origin, or disability in connection with the perfomance
of this Agreement.
h.
Prior Approval. This Agreement shall not be binding upon either party, no
services shall be performed under the terms of this Agreement, nor shall payment be made
untit this Agreement and been reduced to writing and approved by all necessary authorities.
Governmental Immunity. Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to
have waived the City or County's govemmental immunity, as provided by any applicable
law including Wyo. Stat. $ 1-39-101, et seg. Further, the City and County fully retain all
immunities and defenses provided by law with regard to any action, whether in tort, contract,
or any other theory of law, based on this Agreement.
Termination. The County may terminate this Agreement for cause
immediately without notice or liability in the event the City fails to perform. Either Party
may terminate this Agreement without cause upon sixty (60) days written notice.
Page 3 of 4
Signatures. In witness thereof, the parties to this Agreement, through their
duly authorized representatives, have executed this Agreement on the days and dates set out
below and certify that they have read, understood, and agreed to the terms and conditions
of this Agreement.
CITYOFCHEYENNE, WYOMING
By:
Patrick Collins
Date:
Mayor
(SEAL)
Attest:
By:
Kylie Soden, City Clerk
Date:
LARAMIE COUNTY,WXOMING
JON 1  6 2026
By'.
Gynnar Malm, Chairman
Date:
Laramie County Commissioners
Nena k.Qe
JUN 1 6 2026
By
Debra Lee, Laramie County Clerk
Date:
REVIEWEDANDAPPROVEDASTOFORMONLY
5/9/16
By:
LatamieCountyAttorney's Office
Date
Page 4 of 4