Planning and Development Office 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282   (Fax) 307-637-6366 
 
 
 
MEMO 
To: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
From: Seth Lloyd, AICP Senior Planner 
Subject: PLTA-25-9 – Amending UDC 2.2.8 Assigned Zoning 
Date: September 22, 2025 
 
Background:  
The item for consideration is a UDC Text Amendment. This is approved by Ordinance.    
The proposed Governing Body review schedule is as follows: 
• Introduction and Referral  9/22/2025 
• Public Services Committee  10/6/2025 
• Second reading    10/13/2025 
• Public Services Committee  10/20/2025 
• Third and final reading   10/27/2025 
 
Planning Commission Recommendation:  
The Planning Commission heard this item at their September 15, 2025, meeting and voted 4-0 to 
recommend the Governing Body approve the proposed text amendment with the following change: 
• 2.2.8.d.1 changed to be a bulleted list instead of in-line text 
Planning Commission’s proposed changes are reflected in the attached ordinance.  
 
The Planning Commission Staff report is attached and has not been changed (Except that areas changed 
by the Planning Commission have been noted in green to attempt to reduce confusion when comparing 
the Planning Commission Staff Report to the Ordinance).  
 
Attachments: 
1. Ordinance 
2. Redlined Ordinance 
3. Planning Commission Staff Report 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Planning and Development Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282 (Fax) 307-637-6366 
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: "AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.2.8, ASSIGNED ZONING, OF 
THE CHEYENNE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TO CONFORM 
WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE REVISION OF LARAMIE COUNTY 
ZONING REGULATIONS." 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1.  That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
to the Unified Development Code (UDC)  that is the subject of this ordinance meets the  review 
criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the UDC. 
 
Section 2 .  That on September 15, 2025, the Planning Commission conducted a public 
hearing, reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text 
amendment. 
 
Section 3.  That on August 5, 2025, Laramie County enacted a comprehensive revision of 
its zoning regulations, including substantial modifications to zoning districts, permitted uses, and 
administrative procedures. Because the City of Cheyenne has adopted regulations and policies that 
reference or rely upon Laramie County zoning classifications and standards, the County’s revision 
necessitated a review of City regulations, policies, and processes to address areas affected by these 
changes. 
 
Section 4.  That Section 2.2.8, Assigned Zoning, of Article 2, Applications, Procedures and 
Criteria, of the Unified Development Code of the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, is hereby amended 
to read: 
 
2.2.8 Assigned Zoning 
 
a. Intent. The a ssigned zoning proce ss is intended to provide review  standards and 
procedures for zoning districts established on land or property  currently without a City 
zone assignment. 
 
b. Applicability. An application for assigned zoning may be initiated by the Director for the 
following purposes: 
 
1. To assign a zone district to land being annexed to the City; or 
2. To assign a zone district to land which would become unzoned due to the 
termination of an existing zone district (e.g. a text amendment eliminating a zone 
district).  
 
c. Specific Procedures. An assigned zoning has the following specific procedures: 
 
1. Staff Review.  
Page 2 of 4 
 
(a) For annexations, following the submittal of an annexation petition  or the 
initiation of annexation by the City , the Director shall assign a zone that 
best matches the land’s current  county zone , after taking into account 
allowed uses, current uses, and surrounding zoning , as applicable. Staff 
shall make available to the public a policy document indicating what city 
zone is most analogous to the county zones. This policy document shall 
be available online and may be amended from time to time. (Should the 
applicant who has initiated the annexation desire a different zone than that 
of the zone best matched to the land’s current  county zone, the applicant 
may submit a zoning map amendment in accordance with the provisions 
of UDC Section 2.2.1.) Staff shall then schedule a public hearing before 
the Planning Commission  to consider the assigned zoning . The public 
hearing shall be scheduled for the Planning Commission meeting 
immediately preceding the City Council public hearing for the related 
annexation. 
(b) For zoning terminations, the Director shall assign a zone that best matches 
the current zoning of the property, after taking into account allowed uses, 
current uses, and surrounding zoning, as applicable . Staff shall schedule 
the public hearing before the Planning Commission to coincide with the 
action terminating the zone district.  
 
2. Notice. Staff shall follow the notice requirements below for the assigned zone: 
(a) Posted Notice. For applications initiated by the City, signs indicating that 
there is a pending development application shall be posted generally 
delineating the boundaries of the area  of land proposed for the zoning. 
Each sign shall include legible te xt stating that a “Zoning Map 
Amendment” is proposed. For applications initiated by a property owner’s 
request for annexation , staff shall provide one (1)  sign for each road 
frontage, to be posted by the applicant on each road frontage, indicating 
that there is a pending development application. All posted notic es shall 
be posted at least  seven (7) days prior to the scheduled  Planning 
Commission review and the party responsible for posting the notice shall 
make reasonable and good  faith efforts to maintain  the posted notice. 
When such efforts are made, failure of this posted notice shall not be 
grounds to invalidate the application.   
(b) Published Notice. Notice shall be published in a newspaper of general 
circulation and to the City of Cheyenne website at least  fifteen (15) days 
but no more than  twenty-one (21) days prior to the scheduled Planning 
Commission review stating the general location of the property, the nature 
of the application, the location for further information on that application, 
and the date, time and location of the Planning Commission review. 
(c) Mailed Notice . All owners within  three hundred  (300) feet  of subject 
property and within the subject area  shall be mailed notice stating the 
general location of the property, the nature of the application, the location 
for further information on that application, and the date, time and location 
of the Planning Commission public hearing. When mailed notice is 
Page 3 of 4 
 
properly addressed based on the latest property information  available 
from the publicly accessible assessors map  and deposited in the mail at 
least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled hearing, failure of a party to 
receive such notice shall not be grounds to invalidate any action taken. 
 
3. Planning Commission Public Hearing. The Planning Commission shall review the 
application according to the criteria in this section. At the close of the public hearing 
the Planning Commission shall: 
(a) Recommend to the City Council that the application be approved; or 
(b) Recommend to the City Council that the application be approved with 
specific conditions or modifications; or 
(c) Recommend to the City Council that the application be denied, stating the 
specific reasons for denial. 
 
4. City Council Review. Upon a recommendation from the Planning Commission, the 
application shall be scheduled for review by the City Council in accordance with 
the procedures specified in the municipal code.  The Assigned zoning shall be 
introduced such that the final approval of the assigned zoning is aligned with the 
approval of the document creating the situation requiring the assigned zoning. 
 
5. Effect of Decision. The decision by the City Council is the final decision.  
(a) After the  approval of an any zoning assignment that accompanies an 
annexation, the assigned zoning shall be effective at the same time as the 
annexation. 
(b) After the  approval of an y zoning assignment that  accompanies a zone 
termination, the assigned zoning shall not be effective prior to the 
termination of the previous zone. 
 
d. Review Criteria. In reviewing, providing comments, and making recommendations and 
decisions on a proposed assigned zone, the staff, Planning Commission and City Council 
shall use the following criteria: 
1. The proposed zoning assignment is the most analogous City zone to the current 
zone when taking into consideration allowed uses, current uses, or surrounding City 
zones. Zoning for standard county zones shall be assigned based on the policy 
document, while zones not listed on the policy document and terminated City zones 
shall be assigned a City zone on a case-by-case basis. shall be assigned a City zone 
based on: 
(a) Permitted uses,  
(b) Uses that could reasonably be anticipated for conditional use approval 
under the current zoning, 
(c) Current uses, or 
(d) Surrounding City zoning, 
as deemed most suitable for the property being assigned a zone in terms of allowing 
the landowner to continue the current use of the land while respecting the current 
and anticipated uses of surrounding property. 
 
Page 4 of 4 
 
Section 5.  Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any of the  remaining 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
 Section 6.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
 
(SEAL) 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
 
PLTA-25-9   September 15, 2025 
Planning and Development Office 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282   (Fax) 307-637-6366 
 
 
 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION  
SEPTEMBER 15, 2025 
STAFF REPORT  
 
REQUEST:  A Text Amendment amending the Unified Development Code 2.2.8 Assigned Zoning  
CASE NUMBER:  PLTA-25-9 
PREPARED BY: Seth Lloyd, AICP, Senior Planner, Planning and Development Department 
 
 
RECOMMENDED MOTION:  
 
Move to recommend the Governing Body approve  text amendments to the Unified Development Code 
2.2.8 Assigned Zoning as outlined in this staff report and recommended by staff, noting the amendments 
meet the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
BACKGROUND: 
 
The City’s Unified Development Code (UDC) was adopted by the Governing Body on January 23, 2012, by 
Ordinance Number 3943 with an effective  date of April 30, 2012.  The Unified Development Code is the 
regulatory document carrying out the vision of PlanCheyenne and is reviewed annually pursuant to UDC 
1.1.7 [Annual Review Requirement] to determine if any particular standard or regulation is timely, 
relevant and adequately addresses current market conditions. In addition to the annual review, the 
Planning and  Development Director and City Engineer are authorized under UDC 2.4.1.b.3 to bring 
forward text amendments on their own initiative.  
 
The proposed text amendments are to the assigned zoning portion of the UDC. This process was 
established in 202 3 to set a zone in the case of land  not having a City zone within  City limits. With an 
annexation requested by a landowner, the landowner could request a City zone which is determined to 
be improper by the Governing Body. In such cases, it is beneficial to have a base zone to fall back upon 
when the property still meets the criteria to be annexed. 
 
When the City established assigned zoning, the County had zones largely similar to the City’s zone. At one 
time, the City and County  even had identical zoning, but gradually the zones drifted  apart slightly in 
allowed uses or regulations; however, in 2023, the City and County by and large still had very similar zone 
districts. In August of 2025, the County overhauled their zoning code and regulations, resulting in 
significant discrepancies between County zoning districts  and City zones . For example, the Cou nty’s 
version of medium -density residential zoning has been modified and now more closely aligns with the 
City’s higher-density residential zones. The most significant of these changes is the County eliminating a 
variety of zones in areas without central water and sewer and making the land all County LU Land Use. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Planning and Development Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282 (Fax) 307-637-6366 
PLTA-25-9   September 15, 2025 
The LU zone is unique in that nearly all uses are allowed , but with varying levels conditional uses – from 
quarries with County Commissioner approval, to offices with County staff approval. 
 
A strict application of the current wording of the UDC’s Assigned Zoning would lead to challenges when 
annexing land under the new County zoning. As such Staff proposes more of a case -by-case analysis to 
each case of assigned zoning, based on not just the allowed uses of the current zoning, but also the current 
uses of the subject property and the current zoning of nearby properties under City jurisdiction. This 
approach would have been appropriate when assigned zoning was first established, but the previou s 
approach allowed for greater predictability. 
 
Under the proposed amendment, projects going through the assigned zoning process may have more 
review and debate – as some proposals may not be as clear-cut as they were under the previous process. 
 
A few grammatical edits are also included in the proposed amendment.  
 
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS: 
 
2.2.8 Assigned Zoning  
a. Intent. The assigned zoning process is intended to provide review standards and procedures for 
zoning districts established on land or property currently without a City zone assignment. 
b. Applicability. An application for assigned zoning may be initiated by the Director for the following 
purposes: 
1. To assign a zone district to land being annexed to the City; or 
2. To assign a zone district to land which would become unzoned due to the termination of 
an existing zone district (e.g. a text amendment eliminating a zone district).  
c. Specific Procedures. An assigned zoning has the following specific procedures: 
1. Staff Review.  
(a) For annexations, following the submittal of an annexation petition  or the 
initiation of annexation by the City , the Director shall assign a zone that best 
matches the lands ’ current county zone , when taking into account allowed 
uses, current uses, and surrounding zoning, as applicable accompanying the 
annexation of a property . Staff shall make available to the public a policy 
document indicating what city zone is most analogous to the county zones. This 
policy document shall be available online and may be amended from time to 
time. (Should the applicant who has initiated the annexation desire a different 
zone than that of the zone best matched to the land’s current county zone, the 
applicant may submit a zoning map amendment in accordance with the 
provisions of UDC Section 2.2.1.) Staff shall then schedule a public hearing 
before the Planning Commission to consider the assigned zoning. The public 
hearing shall be scheduled for the Planning Commission meeting immediately 
preceding the City Council public hearing for the related annexation. 
(b) For zoning terminations, the Director shall assign a zone that best matches the 
current zoning of the property, when taking into account allowed uses, current 
uses, and surrounding zoning, as applicable . Staff shall schedule the public 
hearing before the Planning Commission to coincide with the action 
terminating the zone district.  
2. Notice. Staff shall follow the notice requirements below for the assigned zone: 
(a) Posted Notice. For applications initiated by the City, signs indicating that there 
is a pending development application shall be posted generally delineating the 
boundaries of the area of land proposed for the zoning. Each sign shall include 
PLTA-25-9   September 15, 2025 
legible text stating that a “Zoning Map Amendment” is proposed. For 
applications initiated by a property owner’s request for annexation, staff shall 
provide one (1) sign for each road frontage, to be posted by the applicant on 
each road frontage, indicating that there is a pending development application. 
All posted notices shall be posted at least seven (7) days prior to the scheduled 
Planning Commission review and the party responsible for posting the notice 
shall make reasonable and good faith efforts to  maintain the posted notice. 
When such efforts are made, failure of this posted notice shall not be grounds 
to invalidate the application.   
(b) Published Notice . Notice shall be published in a newspaper of general 
circulation and to the City of Cheyenne website at least fifteen (15) days but no 
more than twenty-one (21) days prior to the scheduled Planning Commission 
review stating the general location of the pro perty, the nature of the 
application, the location for further information on that application, and the 
date, time and location of the Planning Commission review. 
(c) Mailed Notice. All owners within three hundred (300) feet of subject property 
and within the subject area shall be mailed notice stating the general location 
of the property, the nature of the application, the location for further 
information on that application, and the date, time and location of the Planning 
Commission public hearing. When mailed notice is properly addressed based 
on the latest property information available from the publicly accessible 
assessors map and deposited in the mail at least fifteen (15) days prior to the 
scheduled hearing, failure of a party to receive such notice shall not be grounds 
to invalidate any action taken. 
3. Planning Commission Public Hearing. The Planning Commission shall review the 
application according to the criteria in this section. At the close of the public hearing the 
Planning Commission shall: 
(a) Recommend to the City Council that the application be approved; or 
(b) Recommend to the City Council that the application be approved with specific 
conditions or modifications; or 
(c) Recommend to the City Council that the application be denied, stating the 
specific reasons for denial. 
4. City Council Review . Upon a recommendation from the Planning Commission, the 
application shall be scheduled for review by the City Council in accordance with the 
procedures specified in the municipal code. The Assigned zoning shall be introduced such 
that the final approval of the assigned zoning is aligned with the approval of the document 
creating the situation requiring the assigned zoning. 
5. Effect of Decision. The decision by the City Council is the final decision.  
(a) After the approval of an any zoning assignment that accompanies an 
annexation, the assigned zoning shall be effective at the same time as the 
annexation. 
(b) After the approval of any zoning assignment that accompanies a zone 
termination, the assigned zoning shall not be effective prior to the 
termination of the previous zone.   
d. Review Criteria. In reviewing, providing comments, and making recommendations and decisions 
on a proposed assigned zone, the staff, Planning Commission and City Council shall use the 
following criteria: 
1. The proposed zoning assignment is the most analogous City zone to the current zone 
when taking into consideration allowed uses , current uses, or surrounding City zones . 
Zoning for standard county zones shall be assigned based on the policy document, while 
PLTA-25-9   September 15, 2025 
zones not listed on the policy document shall be assigned a City zone based on permitted 
uses, uses that could reasonably be anticipated for conditional use approval under the 
current zoning,  current uses, or surrounding City zoning, as deemed most suitable for the 
property bei ng assigned a zone  in terms of allowing the landowner to continue the 
current use of the land while respecting the current and anticipated uses of surrounding 
property. and terminated City zones shall be assigned a City zone on a case-by-case basis. 
 
REVIEW CRITERIA: 
 
Review of a UDC text amendment shall be measured by the following three (3) criteria of Section 2.4.1.d: 
 
1. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:  
“The amendment is in accordance with general goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan, or 
is necessary to address an emerging issue not anticipated in the Comprehensive Plan and is not 
inconsistent with the plan.” 
 
PlanCheyenne encourages the adoption of strategies that simplify annexation, along with 
consistency in development regulations between County and City, to the extent practical (Policy 
1.2D). The proposed Assigned Zoning will allow for consistency of land use expectations through 
the transition into City jurisdiction. 
  
2. STATE STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS:  
The amendment is consistent with the Wyoming Statutes, and specifically the Municipal Planning 
and Zoning statutes. The following Articles are all listed verbatim from Wyoming State Statute. 
 
From ARTICLE 6 – ZONING of TITLE 15 CITIES AND TOWNS: 
WYO 15-1-602.  Regulations; powers of governing body; public hearing; notice. 
(a) The governing body shall specify how regulations, restrictions and the district 
boundaries are to be determined, established, enforced, amended, supplemented or 
otherwise changed. No governing body shall require that a land use or physical 
development be consistent with a local land use plan unless the applicable provisions 
of the local land use plan have been incorporated into the local zoning regulations. 
(b) No regulation, restriction or boundary is effective until after a public hearing. At least 
fifteen (15) days notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published in a 
newspaper of general circulation in the city or town. 
 
Assessment: This amendment proposes modifying the Unified Development Code to create a 
section of code to help establish zoning and regulations for properties annexed into city limits. 
 
3. HEALTH, SAFETY, AND PUBLIC WELFARE:  
“The amendment promotes the general health, safety and public welfare.” 
 
This amendment would promote the general health, safety and public welfare of Cheyenne. The 
amendment will help to make sure a zone and regulations are established when a property is 
annexed into city limits.  
 
 
CONCLUSION:  
 
Staff concludes that this text amendment meets the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d. 
PLTA-25-9   September 15, 2025 
 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:  
 
Staff recommends approval of text amendments to the Unified Development Code 2.2.8 Assigned Zoning 
as outlined in  this staff report  and recommended by staff,  noting the amendments meet  the review 
criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
 
 